ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the criminalisation of residence in an area controlled by a terrorist organisation, Section 35125. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, as well as the Members of Parliament and the people who are following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had, of course, prepared a text, but I realized in my walk that we should actually do what Mrs Helder always does so well: as the first speaker of a large law, let me tell you what it is really about. If you don't, the people who are listening will think, "What the hell is this about? We are discussing today a law that states that people who go to an area controlled by a terrorist organisation cannot do that and that they must have prior consent if they consider it necessary to go there. If they don't have that permission, they could be a criminal offence. This law aims to ensure that people are not able to house in the most hideous areas for fun and that we have a title to secure these people when they return. That is what we have tried to do in this law. It's a law that comes from our coalition negotiations. It is in the coalition agreement, because we attach great importance to this. It also has a history of motions discussed in the Chamber. Before that, Mr. Chairman. If you look at this law, we can all remember the surprise that traveled through our country when it became clear that the caliphate of IS actually attracts the Netherlands. People who live in this beautiful country in a safe and peaceful way choose to go, for example, to the area controlled by IS at the time, and still to a small extent. It's so bad that people think they should be there when they see there's a devastating organization going on. It was unclear for a very long time what exactly happened there. Longer ago, there were people who thought they had to save people who had become victims of poisonous gas attacks. That was the thought, but gradually it became more and more clear what ISIS was doing. But even then there were people who thought: I go there nicely; I agree with that. We soon found out that our legal instruments were actually inadequate, because the only person who came back was punished for nothing and it was very difficult to condemn them. That is why the cabinet has adopted all kinds of legislation and measures. So what we are discussing today is part of that. What the hell makes a law like that happen? I think it is important to emphasise that it is very important for my party, the CDA, that this law also sets a very clear standard. It cannot be that you think you can just leave for a moment in an area where there is a terrorist organisation and the lives of the people who live there are completely destroyed. It may be very clear that you have no business there. That standard is very important for the CDA. I often read a law like this, and that's why I was surprised that there was so much criticism of that law. It almost seems like others say, "But you have to go anywhere you want to go." Such a crazy individualistic Statue of Liberty! It's about me, isn't it? I can travel and go wherever I want, can't I? People even talked about it being some kind of human right. I guess I'm just looking at standards of what you're doing differently. If you know each other, of course, you have to think carefully about it when you do. If there is an area controlled by terrorists and where people are victims of these terrorists, then you should not go there. And you certainly shouldn't participate in that, but there are other laws for that. That is why we consider this law to be very important. You're not going there without permission, because you have no business there. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is important that there are organisations that do have something to do there. And who are they? We have, of course, listened very carefully to the criticism of aid workers and journalists in particular. These are very important groups, which mean that people still have some life there and that we in our society can actually know what is happening there. For example, we can know that through our journalists. So there are groups you should want to exclude, but how do you do that? Can the Minister say a few things about this today? There are safeguards in this bill. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister today to explain clearly how he intends to dress it. Part of that goes for general administrative action. This is stated in the note on the basis of the report and the explanatory statement and everything written about it, which not every journalist and every aid worker reads, of course. It is important to make that very clear today. So I would like to point out that I think it is important to make an exception for journalists and aid workers. The question is, how do you do that? I asked the Minister to explain that. A little bit of that, I can say. It means they're getting another test. They don't have to prove that they have a major interest. It also means that there will be swift action. However, there remains one group for which we have a particularly weak one. It is not for nothing that we have ensured that the Minister has held consultations with them before the recess. That is the international Red Cross. They are at the basis of our entire international humanitarian law. They really are the embodiment of emergency aid. What they brought forward to us in a very profound way has touched a string. They indicate that they are almost always the first to operate in the most complex countries. Several countries, Australia, Denmark and England, already have regulations, as we are discussing them today. Those countries give the Red Cross room for it in a certain way. If one country does the sister and the other country does so, then we cannot easily use our international community of people working for the Red Cross anywhere, they say. That particular position has the Red Cross. I think it is important that we take a closer look at this, even because it is not unusual for the Red Cross to have its own role in our code of conduct. There is already something special about the Red Cross, including treaty law. That is why we have tabled an amendment today to ensure that the Red Cross is given a very specific role and thus is in an exceptional position vis-à-vis the others. I do not want to say anything to the detriment of any other organization. I'd like to stress that. I am thinking of Doctors Without Borders, Oxfam Novib, Cordaid: all organisations of half of whom I am a member and the others never stand in front of me a closed door that, as far as I am concerned, should be allowed to join the Red Cross as soon as possible or independently at the Ministry. They should also be given them as soon as possible, including Mr Tugendhat, which is another amendment which is fast for the organisation concerned. That is the balance that we are making. That is why there is an amendment to clarify the Red Cross as an organisation which has a special role to play in the international community as a whole. We also have the reporters. Of course, they would have preferred to have an exception. I understand that very well. I would have preferred it in all honesty, if the whole world were served by all the Dutch journalists we know. But we have to be realistic: it is not. It's not a protected profession. We all know very well that IS, in particular, has served itself through propaganda. I can already imagine that such an IS-vlogger plays for journalist and can actually go there with carte blanche of the Dutch government. That makes me unfortunately, with pain in my heart, unable to settle for journalists, although I would have liked to have done so. Once again, the Minister will have to make very clear today how he will ensure that they can do their important work as soon as possible. Of course, we also have a few questions about the bill. These concern in particular the clarity of the designation of the area. I read that this would focus mainly on the core area, as far as it is known and where the organisation has a permanent base of operations. How does the Minister see the risk that the people who have all been on the front line will escape the dance? I would like to have a response from the Minister, including as regards the statement of the decision he will take. It is particularly important that people who tend to go to the area know that very quickly. A public campaign, I read on the Internet, information on social media, travel advice. Are there possible other, perhaps international, ways to think about it? Of course, we often do this with international organisations and countries. We read in the note on the basis of the report which has been chosen not to think on its own that it is wrong somewhere and that we are imposing a ban. That's not how it works. The Minister would like to look at what we are talking about internationally and whether we can promote this in international terms. Mr. Chairman. My final point. I read that it is assumed that children do not reside voluntarily in the area, because they have often been taken by their parents. I understand that very well for young children, but besides that, children under the age of 12 cannot be prosecuted at all, so what good is it? We also read a lot of reports from the AIVD which make it clear that young children can do horrible things in the caliphate and that adolescents, who may not be covered by this scheme, could also go there and then not be covered by this law. At the same time, we see that there is no bizarrely high penalty, and we know that the whole of juvenile law, of course, also has an educational role. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is wise to exclude children by definition. Not that I would ever want a real child under the age of 12 to be covered by this law. Not at all, but where exactly do we set the line when you look at the reports of the AIVD and the fact that our youth sanctions law is really aimed at re-education? They could carry out a task in this respect. Mr. Chairman. My last words. What seems a little strange to us is the level of punishment. That is why we have thought that we should increase the penalty rate, as was the idea at first, because one year is actually very little. Two years is not much, but at least something more substantial, so you could use the time to actually see what someone has done. Mr. Chairman. I'm exactly at zero minutes and I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u4	Nice. Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For some time now, this house has been considering the criminalisation of a stay in areas controlled, dictated and dominated by terrorist organisations. These are areas where a normal person wouldn't want to live. My colleague Dijkhoff tabled a motion in 2014 to criminalise the stay in such an area. We are now five years away and the VVD was and still believes that someone has no business whatsoever in areas where death and destruction are the normal course of events, where terrorists think they can go their way and where peace and security are far to be sought. In fact, it is inconceivable for the VVD that it would not be criminal to stay in a terrorist area, except, of course, the exception we will come back to in a moment. It is therefore the only logical step to criminalise a stay in such an area and the VVD is pleased that there is a legislative proposal after five years. In future cases, this bill will prevent people from travelling to centres of terrorism with an astounding effect on Dutch people. One year's imprisonment and a third-category fine are then hanging over their heads. If it is up to the VVD, we will make it two years in prison, for the reason that someone consciously visits an area where terrorist activities are taking place and which he or she knows is punishable. The Council of State wants to keep the sentence equal to the sentence of the exit ban, but that's where the difference lies for us. At one you go to that area and at the other you've already been there. The latter is subject to a stricter penalty as far as we are concerned. Despite the long period of implementation of this proposal, it could also be effective to apply this law to persons who have already chosen to travel to Syria or Iraq. The travellers who are there will have six weeks to leave the area after the entry into force of the law or to apply for permission to stay with the Minister. If they do not, they are at least punishable for violating the law, because every Dutchman must know the law. For travellers with the motive to fight for ISIS or to confess the promised jihad, punishments already apply if it can be proven that they have committed a crime. The law before us is a nice addition to the existing package. As far as the VVD is concerned, the travellers are convicted in the country where they committed that crime. They don't have to come back because they have no business in our free country. After all, they felt they had to fight against all our free values and our open society. If you're so fundamentally different from what we've built up, you just stay there in your fairytale desert. Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to the proposal that is being discussed tonight. It has been proposed to allow journalists and aid workers to obtain permission to visit the area controlled by terrorists. I understand that organisations such as the Red Cross want access to areas where there is an oar. I understand that, partly because of the history of the Red Cross. However, what I see in other aid organisations is that they not only provide sec ond aid, but sometimes also deal politically with it. We see it throughout the discussion about whether or not to bring out travellers. It is a political debate in which, in our view, some aid organisations should not interfere. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister on the basis of what intended activities of aid organisations he will or will not authorise to enter the area. I also have this question with regard to the other category exemption that can be obtained: the journalists. The VVD is for the free collection of news. Freedom of the press is a great, if not one of the greatest goods we have. I do wonder how the test that checks whether a journalist is a real journalist and is taken digitally is carried out. If you're a reporter at the AD or De Telegraaf, you turn in your contract and go, you've got permission. But what if I'm a vlogger with a dubious Internet channel? This is still unclear as far as we are concerned. Is a digital test sufficient? Is it perhaps necessary to speak to someone face-to-face to find out what his intentions are? Partly because for serious reasons consent can be granted, the VVD does not want any arbitrariness to arise in this assessment. It shouldn't be. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the area we're talking about. So far only Australia and Denmark have a law as it stands today. What are the experiences there? Have they actually been able to prosecute people on the basis of violation of this law? What areas has Australia currently designated as terrorist-controlled areas? If these are more areas than just IS areas in Syria and Iraq, does the Netherlands intend to designate them? It seems sensible to the VVD that the Minister should go to the farmer to get the other EU countries to implement this law in Europe. We must jointly form a front and ensure that people who consciously travel to an area controlled by terrorists are punished, on whatever grounds. The EU can play a role in this. We see opportunities here, together with our representatives in the European Parliament, to form a front in this form of crime. Mr President, I will conclude. I said earlier that the VVD had to wait a long time for its proposal to be worked out. The law is now on the table. The VVD sees this law as part of a total package to make life miserable for terrorists. We want to minimize the chance that they can go ahead undisturbed. The government is there to protect the inhabitants of our country. Any proposal contributing to this important task can count on the support of the VVD. Mr. Chairman. This is also the last debate I have on the security portfolio. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Chamber and the Minister for their constructive cooperation. Apart from political insights, we all strive for the same goal, and that is to make our beautiful country safer. I've done it with great love. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is important that all the laws we discuss in this house should always be clear when there is a restriction of citizens' freedom rights. It must never be taken for granted that it takes place, that it can just happen for a moment. When we look at tonight's bill, we see that it is a question of restricting citizens' freedom rights, and that therefore requires a test from us as to whether it is justified. Is it indeed necessary, is it indeed necessary? The response of the SGP Group following that review tonight is: yes, that is necessary. That is imperative, because in the underlying period, behind years, we have seen what happened in Syria and Iraq, in IS area. That had attraction, also on Dutch, to travel there. They were then a danger to our society on their return. That also threatens to a large extent our freedoms. We're gonna have to weigh it up. There is a risk that we will run with all kinds of terrorist movements, including our freedoms. On the other hand, there is actually only a very limited restriction of freedom of movement, namely that you are no longer allowed to go to a particular country governed by terrorists. Then we say it is a good thing that this bill is coming, also because we have concerns. The moment someone travels to such an area and says that he really did nothing there but couscous cooking, it is not always easy to determine whether that is true. Can you tell that someone there has done wrong too? So we see this law as an important safety net by saying: it is not allowed to go to such an area, unless it concerns certain exceptional cases. I'll be right there on that last one. We see that as an important safety net. You say: you cannot stay in such a designated terrorist area if you have not indicated in advance that you clearly have a good reason for doing so. I have seen in the documents that, in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor, it can also help in our toolbox against terrorism. We are well aware that it is not the solution against terrorism, but it is one of the important means we have in the toolbox to combat terrorism. That is also why we, together with the CDA and the VVD, have previously called for this bill. And even though the situation around IS has fortunately changed for the better, namely because it has been significantly defeated, jihadist terrorism is certainly not over. This also applies to other forms of terrorism. So it may be necessary for the future as well. Mr. Chairman. So I have great sympathy for this bill. I do have a few more questions about it. First, I'd like to build on that net story. Can the Minister confirm that these provisions are not intended to be used instead of heavier charges that are possible? So we should not say: this is easier to prove, so we go for this lighter variant, because it takes too much time and energy to prove those more complicated, heavier crimes. We would regret that. So I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. Then there are three points that I would like to come back to and which have also been raised in many amendments. At first I thought it was not so bad with the amendments, but when the debate approached, it was raining some amendments. But I think that is very good for our discussion tonight, because there are a few sensitive points, where we are now seeing in different tastes attempts to adapt provisions. Let me begin by explaining the amendment that I myself tabled and which has now come in on item No. 14. With that amendment, I want to replace the six-week period with a two-week period for an urgent situation. In the case of situations of urgency, the letter of amendment provides for the possibility of designating an area for a maximum period of three months through a ministerial arrangement. I think that the Minister is right to say that in that case it is also good to give the Chamber the opportunity to look at it and ask: do we want to do so? But if it really is an emergency procedure, it is not obvious, as far as we are concerned, to apply the normal six-week period, but also to apply a shorter period, which reflects that urgency. That is why we are arguing in the amendment to item No. 14 to limit that. That is the first point. I have two other points to make in the various amendments. Firstly, the position of journalists and aid workers. If I see correctly, there is actually no discussion in the Chamber as to whether serious journalists and aid workers should be allowed to go to such an area. As far as I can see, there is, in fact, absolute consensus: of course, serious journalists and aid workers need to be allowed to do so. And the law also offers the opportunity to give consent. So to be honest, I also had sympathy for the idea: okay, well arranged, because if you want to arrange which journalists and which aid workers are eligible, you might make things very complicated. Or if you're talking more generally about journalists or aid workers, a lot of people will say, "Well, I'm a journalist or I'm an aid worker." You're gonna have a lot of trouble about that. So is it really necessary to regulate that even more explicitly? In this country, we're used to having to apply for a license even for a sign in your garden, so is it so crazy that if you go to a terrorist area, you have to have a permit for that, if you can do that a little fast? So honestly, that was kind of my starting point. I'll follow the discussion tonight. On the other hand, I understand the inconvenience: shouldn't the specific position of journalists and aid workers be more explicitly anchored in the law? Yes, and I look forward with interest to the efforts to do so. I'm a little worried. What if you take the Red Cross? There are arguments for this. Is another organization that is also doing very well humanitarianly than of a lower order? Isn't that a matter for discussion soon? I'll take care of that. At the same time, Mrs Van Toorenburg put forward the argument that the Red Cross has a different legal position from other organisations. That's where the law systematically makes sense for you to take that with you. I would very much like to hear the Minister's response to that. I am not yet clear and I am glad that we have this debate in order to highlight the ins and outs of the various amendments to this issue. I have one more question of my own. I saw somewhere in the explanatory statement that it should be possible for aid workers from international humanitarian organisations. I don't understand why the word "international" has to be included. If it is a renowned national organisation, then it is not really the same, I ask the Minister. Shouldn't it be able to get permission? Finally, on the subject of punishment. The CDA and the VVD, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Laan-Geselschap, have tabled an amendment on this subject which is sympathetic to us. I say 'us, space, sympathetic', because in the Acts I found that someone found something 'unsympathetic', while a later erratum showed that it was 'us likeable', and that is something else. It's nice for us, in this case. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I like to join those last words. We are also very sympathetic to the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij himself, which deals with the reduction of those six weeks to two weeks. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with that. Then we come to the main point: the law itself. That is another piece of puzzlery in anti-terrorism legislation, or rather anti-jihad legislation, as I see it: a series of laws and measures deployed under Cabinets Rutte. For the viewers at home a piece of the goal of the law. The law aims at preventing the involvement of Dutch nationals or persons with permanent residence or residence in the Netherlands in terrorist offences on the spot or elsewhere, not least on return to the Netherlands. The criminalisation is central: the deliberate residence in an area designated by a general measure of administration under the control of a terrorist organisation without permission from the Netherlands. Criminality does not require evidence that a person residing in the area in question is there for the purpose of joining the terrorist organisation in question, or that he is guilty of committing other offences in the area. The PVV will support the bill, Chairman. It's a puzzle piece, I told you, in the fight against terrorism. Read: especially jihad. But real measures are, of course, the measures that we as PVV have been proposing for so long, but which are never taken over. Anti-terrorism legislation seems to be getting better and better, or so it may get better and better, but it always remains a little bit of a second best for us. The main added value of the bill is that it provides an additional tool for the prosecution of those who have contributed to terrorist activities other than as a warrior alone. The need for this is seen with current returners from the Islamic State/Caliphate who claim to have been there no more than cook, driver or midwife. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we have some questions and comments. For example, for aid workers and journalists, this has already been mentioned by fellow Members of the European Parliament, it is possible to request permission to stay in a particular area. How does the Minister ensure that this is not abused by, for example, Islamic aid organisations that secretly support the jihad? We were once laughed at in this Chamber by the introduction of the term "taqqiya." In the meantime, we know better. As I have just said, almost every traveler or traveler is calling for sandwiches to be lubricated, wounded or otherwise assisted. The draft law makes it possible for persons who are initially resident in a terrorist area but who can be found to be in good faith to be allowed to reside with retroactive effect. The question to the Minister is whether this is also possible the other way around. Is it possible, therefore, to deprive retroactively of the permission to stay of a person or organisation which proves not to be in good faith? We can now do it in one direction through this law, but not in the other. And if not, what means does the government have to bring people to justice? Another question: is the Minister prepared to take, on top of this law, a measure to withdraw the Dutch citizenship of anyone convicted on the basis of this law? So just: convicted by this law, then also withdraw nationality. I would also like an answer to that. Mr. Chairman. Then about the area, the terrorist area. Jihadists are now living all over the world. That may not have been the case some 80 years ago, but in the meantime it has been. The jihad is not limited to Nigeria, Pakistan or the Middle East; the jihad is everywhere. But to quote the big number 14 again: "You can't see it until you see it." Despite all the measures and laws adopted, there is of course still a chance that at some point a piece of Dutch territory can be regarded as "terrorist." Jihadists can return to the Netherlands and return to society after their punishment. We are already dealing with thousands of sympathizers of the jihad on their own soil. We have 450 mosques. We have more than a million Muslims, 70% of whom put Sharia above our Dutch laws. This is all due to mass immigration from Islamic countries over the last 40 years. The police summit organises itself slyly on Islamic neighborhood father projects to give up enforcement during certain periods of time such as the Ramadan. They also organize themselves dullly on Ramadan meals, the so-called eiftars. This leaves a bit of enforcement to mosques. Therefore, don't look crazy if in the near or perhaps future part of Dutch territory should be considered "terrorist." And then what? Did the Minister think about that? Because the result may be that all the residents of that neighborhood, all the people who happen to live there, must be punished. Imagine that Channel Island suddenly has to be classified as "terrorist territory." Then all the people who live there suddenly find themselves in a terrorist area. We've been laughed at more times in this Chamber in the past for things that have all come true. I do not want to say that in a year's time it will be, but who says that in 15 years' time it will not be? Governing is forward-looking. Let us, as an opposition, take that part on our behalf. The question is justified whether Dutch law can still be exercised in a neighbourhood after the power there has been given away to neighborhood fathers and imams. That's a fair question. The need to look ahead is a consequence of ignoring our advice and action in the past. If we want to keep the Netherlands safe, we must use this second-best legislation to de-Islamicise our country, to take away the Dutch nationality of travellers and to ensure that they never enter our country again. We must also close the borders for immigration from Islamic countries and for all forms of asylum. We will have to introduce administrative detention to prevent attacks. Until then, in maintaining security, the happiness factor remains a slightly too important player throughout the story, despite the many laws and measures and the many good work of our security services. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Xulhaz and Mahbub, brave lgtb+ activists. They fought for what they believed in, the right to be themselves, by writing about gay rights and organising the first gay pride ever in Dhaka. On 25 April 2016, they were brutally murdered by supporters of Al-Qaeda. Claudia, Nadia, Marco, Koyo and Makoto. On July 1, 2016, they were unsuspectingly dining when they were held hostage and murdered by supporters of IS. It happened at Holy Bakery Restaurant in Dhaka. Our progressive and international community in Bangladesh would never be the same after these profound events. It was a terrible period, first of all, of course for their next of kin, and it still is. But I, too, have experienced what that is like as a sort of indirect victim of terrorism. If you're afraid when the bell rings, who's at your door? If you can't walk on the street anymore, but you have to do everything by car. If you're even afraid to buy a pack of sugar and feel like you should always look over your shoulder. It was terrible and it was ultimately the reason for my wife Sampa and me to return to the Netherlands. We need to protect our society from this kind of horrible terrorist act, from the fear that eats you, from the grief. But, Mr President, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, not with this law. Suggested: GroenLinks looks at any measure that can help to make our society safer with interest. So is this law. But when I read the advice of the Council of State and the warnings of humanitarian organisations, of journalists, of human rights lawyers, I get the impression that this law does not really solve any problem, but violates fundamental human rights and humanitarian war law. Let me explain this in more detail. First of all, according to the Council of State and the Public Prosecutor's Office, this law is not necessary. The current legislation provides sufficient guidance to address returners from, for example, Syria and Iraq. The biggest problem with prosecution at the moment even turns out to be to prove that someone has been in such an area at all. Terrorists do not take any Raqqa, but travel with many detours to stay under the radar. This law is based precisely on the mere fact that someone has been in such an area, while the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Council of State indicate that we currently have enough grounds for prosecution for returners, but that it is precisely complicated to show that people have been in such an area. Already, for example, there is an exit ban on areas controlled by terrorist organisations and it is prohibited to participate in terrorist organisations. What does this law add, so I ask the Minister. According to the Council of State and the Public Prosecutor not very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u12	For the third time, it's said that the D.A.'s office doesn't see anything. I wonder what that is derived from. I have just read in the documents that they have taken note of this bill with approval. Earlier it emerged that this was seen as a valuable addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u13	I have indeed read this in the explanatory statement, but if I go through the opinion of the Council of State, it refers to Chambers in which the Public Prosecutor's Office is quoted. That says that there are at present sufficient tools for returners from Syria and Iraq in the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u14	So you are talking about what has been said in the past. In my view, the Public Prosecutor's Office is undisputedly positive about this bill and ultimately a stand-by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u15	According to the explanatory statement, that is the case. In the opinion of the Council of State, I read that the Public Prosecutor's Office is indicating, and this is also what the Council of State says that this bill is not necessary to deal with returners from Syria and Iraq, because we can do that already with the current legislation. In fact, with the current legislation, the problem is to show that people have been in those areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u16	Mr Van der Staaij has, I think, a very valid point. The Public Prosecutor's Office has stated in an official view that it strongly supports this bill. I think it is important to emphasise this above all and not what the Council of State has ever read in it. But more importantly, it is also very clearly stated in the documents that it is not primarily intended to curb the hell and misery that is going on in Syria, but that the law is here because it has taken so long for us to actually take action. Doesn't GroenLinks recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u17	Indeed, I acknowledge that it has taken a long time to take action. I would have mentioned this later in my speech, but I can also do so now, in response to Mrs Van Toorenburg. The only question is how this bill will solve this problem. This bill is about the hypothetical case that new fires of extremism and terrorism are emerging in the world that attract Dutch or Dutch residents. This bill also constitutes a fundamental violation of a number of very fundamental human rights. Then the question is how this bill will solve that problem, that it has been so difficult to deal with returners from Syria and Iraq. I do not read that in the opinion of the Council of State. I attach great importance to the opinions of the Council of State, so I am partly basing myself on them in my argument. I would like to hear from Mrs Van Toorenburg why she does not think that argument is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u18	We all know that the Council of State is giving an opinion. On this basis, the cabinet shall proceed with its explanatory memorandum and shall supplement it where necessary. That is exactly what happened in this case, because it quite neatly states that it is not such a hypothetical case that we may have a scary fireplace in the future and that it is very important that we can react immediately. I wonder if GroenLinks will wait for years. I refer to the very low penalties for returners and the misery that we have seen from time to time over the past period. Or is GroenLinks going to vote for the PVV law to set up an administrative detention? I wonder what GroenLinks wants to do to ensure that we can respond quickly and adequately to people who are threatening to travel to a dangerous area or who may return. At least now you can pin them down with a title. You're gonna have nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u19	First, briefly on the first point. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that it has all been explained in the explanatory statement. I do not see any convincing answers to that in response to the Council of State, but I have also submitted them to the Minister here. Maybe he can convince me tonight. I do not see how the explanatory statement convincingly shows that this law is really necessary and adds something to the present instruments. That's one. Secondly, what does GroenLinks want? I'd love to answer that question. I think Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that too. In the past, we have supported various measures to address this problem, for example extending the detention order. GroenLinks is also strongly in favour of the global approach: more investment in detection and intelligence, for example, in cyberterrorism. I think we have all kinds of very clear views and visions, which are much more effective than this bill. The Council of State, I do attach great importance to this High College of State, which clearly states that this law does not add anything. In fact, the Council of State points out that in the current investigation and prosecution, the problem is to show that people have been in Syria and Iraq at all. After all, they don't have a plane ticket to Raqqa, but they go there via all kinds of detours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u20	But then GroenLinks keeps talking in the same circle, that they only focus on Syria and Iraq. Let not just be motivated by this bill. It is precisely in order to be able to act properly in the future, so that we do not have to wait so long. That's what this is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u21	Then I say again that there are sufficient possibilities for detection and prosecution. That's what the Council of State says. So we don't need this law. This law doesn't add much. In fact, this one is based on something very hard to prove. I would rather work on such a global approach, namely by investing in intelligence and ensuring that we can actually prove that people have been in those areas, so that, on the basis of people's actions, we proceed to prosecution, based on what they have actually done, rather than on the fact that they have been at a certain location at some point. That seems to me to be much more effective and effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u22	GroenLinks says this law is not necessary. Previously GroenLinks also said not to find the bombing of Islamic State necessary. That raises a bit of the question that I think Mrs Van Toorenburg is right to ask, especially when I listen to the arguments: what is a good solution for GroenLinks and what is important? The representative of GroenLinks says first that the prosecution is against this. That's disproved, because the D.A.'s here for this. Then he says: the most important argument in the opinion of the Council of State is that it is not really known where these people have been. But that too is outdated because with the fall of the caliphate a huge amount of data and papers has been released. It has been translated and distributed and shared, inter alia, by the FBI and the other European intelligence services, which makes that data available. If that argument lapses, will GroenLinks' objection to this law not also lapse? Isn't there an added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr Sjoerdsma says a number of things. I am going to try to respond as briefly as possible to all these points. First of all, the point about the Public Prosecutor's Office. I haven't said at any time that the D.A. is against this law. I have just said that the opinion of the Council of State states that there are clear quotes; I can take them up later, too, that the Public Prosecutor states that this law is not necessary and that it currently has sufficient means of investigation and prosecution. Secondly, what does GroenLinks want? I think I have already said a few things about this, but I would like to say it again. We want a comprehensive approach with where it can be tried in the Netherlands and with sufficient intelligence capacity. In doing so, we must ensure that we can prosecute those people on the basis of their actions and not on the basis of where they have been or have not been at some point. Thirdly, whether with the release of information, now that the caliphate has fallen, GroenLinks' fundamental objection does not go away. No, on the contrary, I think, because it has also released a great deal of information that allows us to prosecute those people on the basis of existing legislation. The argument that we do not understand why this law, which does create barriers for humanitarian aid workers and journalists, would be necessary to combat terrorism effectively, is reinforced. With all that information, we can effectively prosecute people who have really done something wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u24	Yeah, but we still have to go back to the beginning of the caliphate. Then it was a little around Raqqa and then it got bigger and smaller, with fluid movements. Then the Dutch moved there and it was unclear what was happening there and what exactly they were doing there. It didn't become clear until later. I would ask the representative of GroenLinks: if there is a similar situation elsewhere in the world, that there is a threat of a terrorist fireplace which we do not know exactly what is happening, it may help to have as a provision that someone has been there, although he would not have permission to do so. Then there is an added value of this law, especially if that data is released afterwards and that evidence can be used, as happened with the fall of the caliphate. Once again, I ask GroenLinks to comment on the evidence that has been released, which has resulted in an important argument from GroenLinks, but also on the importance of this law in future situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u25	In what Mr Sjoerdsma says, there is another objection for me, which I wanted to deal with later, but let me do so now, in order to use my time efficiently. The problem is that these areas are so fluid that we do not know exactly which areas are under the control of a terrorist organisation and which are not. There is a concern for me, because what are we going to do when a woman or a child over 12 years of age has gone to visit family in a village in Syria that is not under IS control? Are we going to prosecute them for visiting their families, which is just a human right? What do we do in those cases, just because it's so fluid? My concern is that this law is not targeted, but that the Minister will soon be able to eject some sort of dragnet over countries where terrorist organisations have power in some areas, while people who travel there do not necessarily have to do anything wrong. Maybe they're gonna go see family or maybe it's a journalist who's gonna write an article. Let's look at people's actions; what they actually do. If people contribute to terrorist activities, they must be dealt with hard, and we can also invest in them. We also agree with measures to do so, such as the extension of the pre-trial sentence, but not with a law like this, with all the concerns I have just expressed, when we do not see what its added value is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u26	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u27	The example mentioned here, the visit of family, is explicitly mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. It is said that it is well imaginable that it can also be a major interest, if there is a family there, to go there. That actually removes that concern and, in my opinion, the story of GroenLinks also lapses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u28	I don't think so, because that's gonna be something the minister has to decide with his team. The Minister must then decide when it is of major importance to seek out family. It says that under circumstances it can be a major interest, something like that. Under what circumstances? Is it only when the mother of that child is sick, or is it when someone comes by for a birthday? I do not think that my fundamental objection is going to lapse at all, but I am happy to listen. Let me say first of all that I share the intentions behind this bill and the concerns of colleagues in the Chamber. GroenLinks also wants to tackle terrorism effectively, but let us do so with laws that really work, and which experts also say they work, and not with a legislative proposal like this, whose added value compared to existing instruments is not clear, while creating all kinds of potential barriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u30	I will continue my speech. Let's see where I left off. I have already said something about existing instruments in the interruptions. Then I'll go into the humanitarian organizations. Another fundamental concern for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is that this proposal creates potential barriers for humanitarian organisations. It is good to see that so many amendments have been tabled on this point, to which a number of colleagues have also referred. I only just got them in; I was just reading them. In my view, Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mrs Laan-Geselschap and myself, on behalf of my colleague Buitenweg, have even produced an identical amendment on the Red Cross. So we should see if we can't work together instead of tabling two amendments later. But that's a good thing. We ourselves would prefer to see an even wider exception for journalists and humanitarian organisations. Let me briefly explain why. Mr Van der Staaij had a number of questions about this. Before I could sit here in the blue benches, I was a humanitarian aid worker. I've been to the Rohingya Camps in Bangladesh, among other places. Maybe it's good to explain how it goes when you're asked for a mission like that. You get an app or a phone call asking if you can leave within a day or up to two days. And then you end up in some kind of personal emergency, because then you have to check if you've had all your vaccinations. You're gonna need to get a medical check-up. You must, of course, consult with the home front and see if it can catch your departure at that time. In short, you have to do a lot in a very short time to get away as quickly as possible, for example if there is a cholera outbreak or another very concrete humanitarian crisis. With this bill you can get permission, but actually an additional barrier is added that comes on top of all the things you have to do in such a short time. So in order to do your important work, you need to ask the Minister for permission: can I leave? It is a good thing that there is an amendment aimed at reducing the deadline at least, but it still applies: if it takes two weeks, it will be very difficult to provide humanitarian aid on time. I have therefore tabled an amendment, together with my colleague Buitenweg, in addition to the amendment on the Red Cross, to extend that exception to other humanitarian organisations and journalists. I feel that the first amendment will succeed, because I see how broad the support for the Red Cross is. I have read the explanatory statement correctly: it is complicated to close it down and abuse is lurking. However, I would like to ask the Minister to discuss this in greater detail in the debate, because I have also been told that similar exceptions have been included by Australia and the United Kingdom and by the European Counter-Terrorism Directive for journalists and humanitarian aid workers. If it is possible in Australia, in the United Kingdom and in our European directive, why should it not be possible in Dutch legislation? I do not actually read that in the explanatory statement. That is therefore a specific question for the Minister. Mr President, once again I see someone trying to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u31	Yes. I'm just waiting for the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u32	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u33	I understand that there are questions, but how does GroenLinks just look at them independently? Can we not also see together that in a non-protected profession as a journalist, in a struggle in which propaganda is so important, it can be a very big risk because everyone can call themselves a journalist? Then you don't need this law at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u34	It's complicated to define "journalist." At the same time, there is legislation defining "journalist." I do believe that there are ways of achieving a definition that is workable in practice and that can guarantee freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I'm not saying that's a simple task. That is what I am saying to Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I think it is possible. So I ask the Minister to reflect on that. If it is possible in Australia, in the United Kingdom and in the European directive, then I wonder why it is not possible in Dutch legislation. What is so different about the Dutch situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u35	I think the comparison is flawed, but the Minister will deal with the legislation. How complicated we find that was only a year ago here in the Chamber: we did not come up with that definition. And that's why it's such a big problem. That is why you see this in this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u36	As I said to Mrs Van Toorenburg, I am not saying that it is a simple task, but I think it should be possible. That's the question I'm going to put to the Minister. I see that it is possible in other countries and that we have included a definition of 'journalist' in other legislation. Well, I guess it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u37	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 10. It simply states 'impartial humanitarian aid organisations or journalist'. Then you won't fall under the penalty. Does the journalist of a jihadist magazine fall under this heading?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u38	Well, no. See, that should be further defined. The Minister could, of course, also include further definitions in an AMvB, which he would make to implement the law anyway. In any case, this is a matter for Dutch residents. But if Mr Van der Staaij is referring to a journalist from the Netherlands who is going there to write about it, then jihadist propaganda should not, as far as we are concerned, be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u39	It should indeed not be included, but it simply says, without any further explanation: journalist. This is stated in the amendment that has been tabled: a journalist. You're already covered by this exception. And almost the same goes for: an impartial humanitarian aid organisation. That too is very general and unintended. So when I look at the text of this amendment, I wonder: how do you prevent this from being abused? That's actually the question that lingers with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u40	I understand. We ourselves, of course, have been puzzled with the text of the amendment. We have tried to define this in more detail in previous attempts, but that is indeed very complicated. It's very complicated for us to do that from behind our desk. We're having the debate today. I would have liked to have had more time for it, but that is why we are now tabling the amendment in this way. I would like to hear today's debate and the Minister's response. And if there are any suggestions for amending the amendment, I am open to it. But I also think that if the law is passed, the law itself will allow the minister to include further definitions in a general measure of governance. So I do not see any great risk in that, but if Mr Van der Staaij points out the shortcomings of the amendment, then I cannot quite blame him. But I also hope he understands that it is very difficult to think about it from behind the table. The more fundamental point is that we think it is very important that this exception should be made for bona fide journalists, to put it bluntly, and humanitarian aid workers. Mr President, I will conclude. As has been said, GroenLinks understands very well where this bill comes from, namely from the desire to prevent terrorist attacks, to weaken terrorist organisations and to ensure that criminals cannot avoid their punishment. The proposal aims to combat impunity and thereby contribute to human rights. I support the Minister in this endeavour, but I do not think that this law is the right way. The essence of criminal law is that you are punished for something you have done: an act with which you have wronged people. This bill says you were there, so you're there. It doesn't charge people for their actions, but only for the fact that they were in a particular area. Effective, proportionate and effective legislative proposals can always count on the support of GroenLinks. This law does not seem to be, but, as I said, I would like to give the Minister a chance to convince me otherwise today. But I would like to hear from him precisely why the Council of State, humanitarian organisations and human rights lawyers would be wrong. In any case, I wish the Minister every success in his fight against terrorism and making our society safer. And I wish him the wisdom not to lose sight of fundamental human rights and humanitarian war law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group would like to congratulate the Minister on this bill. In doing so, he indicates that he takes the fight against terror and the threat to our freedoms seriously. The proposed law has a parliamentary history of motions that did not receive a majority. However, with the current balance of votes, a majority of the votes are cast. We see the law as a complement to the existing means of combating terrorism: individuals can be prosecuted for involvement in terrorism. It protects society. The 50PLUS Group considers the preventive effect of this proposal to be of great added value. Travellers who say they were cooks, nurses who were injured or only cared for the children can be prosecuted if they so wish. Following and condemning jihadists who have actually contributed to the armed struggle, the bill is likely to contribute less. Mr Van der Staaij pointed that out. That is our first question: to what extent could the proposed law lead to reduced judicial attention for participating in the armed struggle? As far as my group is concerned, this could be a negative side effect. A conviction for residence alone would be inadequate for any victims of the armed struggle and their families. In the end, it's up to the D.A. to decide in individual cases. I'd like a response from the Minister. Our second and final question is about remand. Since this is proposed, there will soon be a basis for insurance for travellers on return. How's that going? Is it true that anyone returning from a designated area can be taken into remand? How's the D.A. gonna work on this later? Are all returners who have been without approval in a designated area taken into remand, or is this not desirable or feasible in practice? That is one thing, because that is the way the proposed law works. Anyway, our compliments. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. It feels good to be back here again and to really participate in the debate since my return to the Chamber after a period of maternity leave. Mr. Chairman. The week my leave began, the news came out that the last part of the IS caliphate had fallen. And that was encouraging news, because of the atrocities that have taken place there and the threat and the impact that that has, and still has, on the region. The appeal of a radical Islamic state and the struggle that was waged for it led a few hundred people from the Netherlands to travel to Syria to contribute to the caliphate and to contribute directly or indirectly to the jihadist struggle. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clip-and-ready. Such a choice must have consequences. This choice undermines and undermines the international legal order and also affects our own country, not least when these people return. A criminal consequence of this, as envisaged by this bill, is therefore a passable path for the Christian Union. A number of things are important to my group. I also have a number of questions concerning the design, definition of the area, the consequences for minors, and humanitarian organisations. I'm just gonna walk by. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State is critical of the legislative proposal and says that we already have adequate legal instruments. Will the Minister, in his response to the first term of the Chamber, explain again what the added value of this bill is for him, and possibly explain on the basis of a concrete example in which situation this bill fills a gap in our criminal law? Mr. Chairman. At the heart of the new Article 134b is the word 'intentionally' for my group. There must be a set-up before criminal proceedings can take place. The legislative proposal opts for a system that is in line with the Danish, namely to obtain prior consent. But who exactly will have the burden of proof on return if no prior consent has been requested? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union also wonders what consequences this bill has for minors. Of course, very young children cannot be prosecuted. My group is also pleased to read that children who have been taken by their parents are not, in principle, a criminal offence for staying in the area. In other cases, however, it will depend on the specific circumstances whether it has become plausible that there is an involuntary stay. But in these cases, criminal prosecution is always the right way to go, especially in cases where there is a twilight zone between deliberate behaviour and victimisation, I ask the Minister. Is it not possible, then, for minors to have an aid route more appropriate than a prison sentence? This should then be assessed on a case-by-case basis. How does the Minister see this? In the light of this law, how is it handled with minors who, during their stay in a territory controlled by a terrorist organisation, have reached the age of 12 or over? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the definition of the area. I understand that the Minister wishes to be careful in this, and I welcome that. I also note that the definition can lead to confusion. I get questions about this, for example: does this also apply to camps where ISIS women and children are currently sitting? Can the Minister rule out that being the case? The note following the report mentions a number of considerations in the designation of an area, such as whether the area is controlled by a terrorist organisation, whether the indication is necessary to prevent the Dutch from committing terrorist offences there or elsewhere and whether there is international consensus on the situation in a particular area. But the Christian Union wonders how it should assess these considerations. Is all these points to be met? Is this an exhaustive list? Can the Minister clarify that? Can he indicate whether there are currently areas in which this qualification could apply? If not, has there perhaps been an example in the recent past besides the IS area? Mr. Chairman. Then there are humanitarian aid organisations. For the Christian Union, it is important that humanitarian workers do not suffer from this law. Humanitarian aid workers fear, however, that obtaining the consent of a country, in this case our country, the Netherlands, will make their work difficult, because the independence and impartiality of their organisations may be compromised. For their work, they depend on the trust of all the warring parties in a particular area. They must negotiate on a daily basis in order to be able to do their work in such an area. It is important, in the view of the Christian Union, that the government pursues a consistent policy for this, including in terms of trust. For example, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation of various organisations bundled in the Dutch Relief Alliance says that they are reliable partners of the Netherlands. At the same time, the organisations that are covered must immediately obtain permission from the Ministry before they can travel to a particular area. Can the Minister explain why he's making a distinction? Mr. Chairman. Then I have some questions about this consent procedure. What exactly will it look like? This question concerns humanitarian organisations in particular. Who's gonna give that permission after all? Who exactly is informed of that consent? Should emergency workers show a butter note at the border with the secretary's signature on it? And my final question: how long will it take for that consent to be finally granted? As Mr Van den Berge has just outlined, it is important for aid workers to be able to travel quickly to such an area. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment to ensure that aid organisations are not hindered in their work and that they can also ask for the permission of the Dutch working for them at once. I'm attached to that. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u45	I waited for Mrs Van der Graaf to finish her speech. If I am correct, at the beginning of her contribution I heard the term "radical Islamic State." What does Mrs. Van der Graaf mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u46	I've been talking about the IS caliphate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u47	Okay, but that's "Islamic State" and not "radical Islamic State." Otherwise, we will again have an enormous blur of understanding and perhaps some kind of devaluation of the misery that has taken place there on the basis of Islam. Before we start talking about a "salafistic state" or something else! So it remains for the Christian Union "Islamic State," may I hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u48	I certainly didn't mean to sketch confusion, but I think we all know what led to a bill like this. And that is the situation that has taken place in the IS caliphate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u49	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to welcome Mr Van der Graaf back to the Chamber. Healthy and also with a healthy baby; that is worth congratulations. It's also nice to be able to debate with her again. Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is, of course, the terrible caliphate of the Islamic State as it has grown in Syria and Iraq and the barbarity that has taken place there. I remember the real involvement of the Netherlands in this. The extravagants, of course, were involved in a certain sense, but I mean the moment when in the Netherlands the realization of what happened when the Jezidis were driven up men, women and children to Mount Sinjar. They were surrounded there, they could not get off that mountain and it seemed that what was going to happen there was going to fall under the category "genocide' and what was also called "genocide'. Those are the most horrible crimes that exist on this planet. That was also the moment when in this House of Representatives not only realized what was happening there, but also created a united will to do something about it. We did not intervene there ourselves, but it did form the basis for the choice of the Netherlands to be there, for example, a military presence, to bomb. Fighting terror is sometimes accompanied by violence, but must be accompanied by laws. Today, one of those laws is on the agenda. It's about effective anti-terrorism policy. We stand for an effective and proportionate anti-terrorist policy. Terrorism must be combated in every way, preventively but also repressively, without unduly restricting the freedoms of all of us. In recent years, the number of anti-terrorist laws has increased considerably. The aim was, of course, to prevent attacks here, but the aim was just as well to ensure that perpetrators who have committed terrible crimes elsewhere are punished. Mr. Chairman. The purpose of this law is also clear. The purpose of this law is actually to prevent people with wrong intentions from travelling to an area where terrorist acts are committed. Maybe they intend to commit acts of terror themselves or they want to get inspiration in order to commit such atrocities here in the Netherlands. Colleague van der Staaij called this law a safety net. He said: it is a safety net for cases where the terrorist intent of travelling cannot yet be proved. We have seen that this was common at the beginning of the caliphate. We saw people traveling, but we couldn't prove that intention yet. Now we can do that, many years later, now that those evidences of presence have come out in the open, have been found and are shared with the FBI. I already had that in the little debate with Mr Van den Berge of GroenLinks. Now you can, but then you can't. When people came back whose intention was not clear and of which it was not clear exactly what had happened in the caliphate, you still had a problem. In that sense it is a safety net and I think it is also a useful safety net. I do have some questions for the Minister. I am the eighth speaker, and that means some repetition. I apologize for that, but still. First of all, perhaps the designation of areas. I quote: an area controlled by a terrorist organization. The Minister gives a clear explanation in the note on the report of a number of conditions to be met by such an area. I would also like to make it very specific. I thought that was a justified point from Mr Van den Berge. I was a diplomat myself. If you look at how such a terrorist situation develops, for example, if you were to make an accelerated video of the area of ISIS, of the caliphate, you would see the next development. It's a small area in the beginning. Then it gets bigger and it swings out and it comes back. Then it'll go into Iraq and it'll come out again. It's a challenge to be exactly in that. That also requires manpower. I ask the Minister exactly how he is going to be in this and how he is going to ensure that he has the capacity to keep up with it. One of the things the Minister is going to do, if I remember correctly, is to point out the essence of the area and to be a little cautious about how wide we draw it. I think that's wise. We all know that Raqqa was the capital, but whether or not they were in Deir al-Zor and, if so, how long... It'll be a little more complicated by then. I am also curious if the Minister can explain, for example, if he is looking at the world right now, if there are areas of which he says: this law would apply at the moment and this law would be useful for that. I'm just saying, Boko Haram in northern Nigeria. Mr Van der Staaij has often made a hard effort to pay attention to this. Hezbollah in Lebanon, would that be an area of interest? PKK in Turkey, is that something that is true or not? I am asking that just to get a good idea of what we are really talking about, also because the explanatory statement says: it is really exceptional that this is going to be used. It is good to know from each other what that exceptional content is. The second thing that I think is important to the clue is the awareness. Good information is essential, especially for people who work on the edges of these conflict zones and I suspect not to take the Official Journal every day to see which area is now designated. I saw the minister say, "We're gonna run campaigns on the Internet about that." That's good, I think, but not everyone sees such an internet campaign, of course. It costs money, too. If you want to reach everyone, it's gonna cost you money. I saw that €250,000 was allocated in the budget. I think we should take a good look at how we're making sure it's really out there. Then I come to something that all colleagues have mentioned. This law is meant to keep people away from an area that shouldn't be there. But of course there are also people who do have a job in such a terrible area. The law therefore refers to people who work for the State: diplomats and military. You're right. The law also makes an exception for representatives of international organisations: the UN and the European Union. I think that is right, but then we come to the somewhat more difficult categories to define. There are two of them: humanitarian aid organisations and journalists. I have seen that the Minister has paid great attention to these groups, not only in the explanatory statement, but also in the note on the report. He appreciates the work and says himself in the explanatory statement: I think it is extremely important to do some work and I also attach great importance to that independence. But it is also very important for my group that this law does not hinder humanitarian aid organisations or journalists in their work. That's really very important. I have worked in Afghanistan, Sudan and a number of other areas, and I know from my own experience that Mr Van Berge has done a striking job; I do not agree with him on a number of points, but I do agree with him on this point that sometimes humanitarian aid organisations should be able to go somewhere in the next minute. Then they just have to go. This is part of their role, because humanitarian principles are about impartiality and neutrality. But they are also about some sort of operational independence. They cannot be dependent on the interests of a state giving its consent. That makes it dangerous for aid workers in the field. That is why I ask the Minister whether he sees it as such, that this law should not hinder journalists and aid workers in their work. Is a request from a journalist or aid worker for permission to go to an area, in fact, always accepted? How long is the Minister going to take to honor that request? I would like to point out once again that this independence and this free news gathering exist with the pardon of an independent press and of journalists who sometimes risk their lives for that one photo or one piece of document, so that we know what is happening there and we can make sure that those people are behind bars here in court. Journalists are important people! These are often stories on which policy makers base themselves, on which investigations are written and on which court rulings come. So can the Minister indicate how he guarantees this independent task of journalists with this law? Shouldn't it be the case, as the Minister himself says, that journalists should be able to get permission afterwards, in accordance with 134b? Maybe we should put a NVJ card in the bag. Maybe that's good evidence, but maybe it's not. In any case, I think it would be a good idea to work out this consent procedure with the NVJ, so that war correspondents will not say: I could not let my light shine on the horrible truth. I wouldn't want that. Madam President. The second category is humanitarian aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u51	Are you going to finish up, Mr. Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u52	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's an important law. I'm gonna try and finish up, and I'm almost there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u53	That's good. That's how I know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u54	Then you shouldn't make such a face, because then I'm going to question it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u56	Round it up! Humanitarian aid workers. I just said neutrality and impartiality. It is precisely this impartiality that makes them accepted by all the warring parties. It is precisely the fact that they have to move quickly into something that makes consent complicated. I myself saw in EU directives and other countries' legislation that there could be categorical exceptions. I read it in a way that the Minister actually says: I would actually like to, but the big problem is the demarcation. I wonder, for example, whether we could not use the demarcation for journalists used in the law on source protection. That's what the journalist is defined in. Humanitarian aid organisations could be defined as the Red Cross, I did so in my amendment with Mr Van der Graaf and as those humanitarian aid organisations operating in accordance with international war law and having a financial link with the Dutch State. I assume that the Dutch State only finances organisations that we trust. If that is not the case, I am concerned and perhaps we should invite the Minister for BuHa-OS here as well. Mr. Chairman. That is why I have tabled an amendment. I have seen several amendments, and I think that the main challenge of this evening is for us all to come out of this one way or another with this Minister. This text will not only have to ensure that the law works, but also that these groups, organisations and journalists can do their job very well. This means not only effective counter-terrorism, but also effective emergency aid and truth finding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u57	Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u58	Much of what I hear is very positive, especially in the case of humanitarian aid organisations. My question is about preventive action, about what Mr Sjoerdsma called the safety net. I'm genuinely looking for the added value of this law, but I don't see it yet. The violation of the exit ban shall be subject to the same prison sentence as the prison sentence introduced by this proposal. Moreover, I wonder whether people who really intend to commit serious acts of terrorism will be deterred by a possible prison sentence of one or two years. I sincerely wonder what this preventive effect would be like in practice, because I do not see how this bill is going to make that happen. However, I am curious to see how the honourable Member views this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u59	That's a good question. There is, however, a difference between the exit ban and this law, because the exit ban applies to an individual and is about the ban on leaving the Schengen area, whereas this ban on going to a particular area applies to everyone. That's definitely another ground. I agree with you that some terrorists and some people with a certain ideological view will not be persuaded by a measure of punishment. They are not convinced at all by a measure of punishment or a law. That is why they are capable of the most terrible crimes. If someone is willing to chop off a head, no law will have preventive effect. But I think that's true for people who actually have a little doubt. Let me call them "the runners." Those are the people who think: my friends are going; maybe I should come too. If they know that only the fact that you go and walk with them means that you are punishable, I think that could have a preventive effect. That is why I think that this law can be useful in the end, but with the comments I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mr Van den Berge? You don't have to. You're not sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u61	Well, I'm just thinking about it. So I have serious doubts as to whether those runners will be deterred...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u62	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u63	That's what I said. I await the Minister's answer, but frankly I do not think it is very convincing. I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u64	That's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u65	I'll say it again. It's important to think this through. It's kind of like migration. Migration is often a chain. First, one is one is another. I'm just talking about regular migration. First, the family, who knows another family. It's okay here; I'm coming too. That's how it goes on. At some point, you have a serious migratory flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u67	No, Madam President. Same goes for this kind of thing. The moment your friends go, when in a certain neighborhood several people become susceptible to radicalisation and are invited to that caliphate: those are the people you really want to escape. Of course, this law is not the only way to do that. This also has to do with deradicalisation programs, with good teachers and with neighborhood agents who keep an eye on things. But with this in the back pocket, maybe you can convince them not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u68	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u69	Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u70	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u71	When I heard Mr Sjoerdsma talk about the attractiveness of migration to terrorist areas, I had to think about whether I was in the right debate. But fortunately, the caliphate has fallen. The threat of terror has not disappeared, quite the contrary. To us, as representatives of the people, the expensive task of protecting the people we represent. That is why we must adopt the laws necessary for this. This law has been discussed for a long time, but it never came to pass until it is now in the coalition agreement. That may be a major reason for D66 and the Christian Union, but for me it is not yet. I really need to have substantive reasons to be here for this. I have no objections in principle to criminalising residence in a territory controlled by a terrorist organisation, but I do have questions about the necessity and feasibility of the law. I have also indicated this in my written contribution, and I have not yet received sufficient answers. We've got all night. I'd like to be convinced. The Council of State has indeed considered that the need for the proposal has not been demonstrated. Experience with people travelling and returning from Syria and Iraq has shown that the existing instruments are sufficient. In particular, it appears complex to demonstrate that persons have been in such an area. This bill is not going to solve that. Other measures are needed for this, but they are not included in this bill. A number of spokesmen have said that it is important to prevent the Dutch from committing attacks in other areas. I very much agree with that. However, the significance of this proposal for the prevention of exit seems limited. Preparation of deliberate residence is not punishable because the offence does not comply with the legal conditions of criminal preparation. In that sense, you could even say that the law doesn't go far enough. A number of spokesmen have also said that the law could lead to people being sentenced for their stay, but not for the crimes they committed there. The D.A. has been sympathetic to the law, but the prosecution has also indicated that there are no cases of Syrians who had to refrain from prosecution because of the lack of sufficient criminal justice. Behaviour in these areas will in most cases already be punishable, including in the preparation of terrorist offences. Moreover, the overall preventive effect of the proposal for travellers also appears to be limited. I do not believe that there would be any deterrent effect on the criminality if you look at the purpose of these people and the terror they intend to commit. Nor does it seem easy to identify areas. It's been said before. Areas where terrorist organisations are dominant are very difficult to limit. Those boundaries run a long way too. That can vary almost every day. So I was wondering whether we are having a theoretical discussion here tonight or whether the Minister is already seeing areas in the world that we should designate as such. What do we currently have in the world for areas controlled by a terrorist organisation? What's that area? How big is that area? And why is that? That's about the necessity of the law. The implementation of the law also poses a number of major problems, in particular with regard to aid workers and journalists. It's been mentioned many times. I have told the Minister the chilling effect, the cooling effect often mentioned in the Anglo-Saxon world. This means the way in which pressure is put on journalists to refrain from using their rights. You have to imagine that. Imagine the situation we had in Syria, with that Dutch involvement. Then there was a Dutch journalist who wanted to investigate the support of the Netherlands to Syrian rebels. That's been a very sensitive investigation. What if the reporter had to submit it to the minister? Well, that's almost unthinkable, isn't it? This is not at all in keeping with the relationship between journalism and the cabinet. The Minister says that category exceptions are impossible, I cannot yet give the balancing framework, because that still has to be thought of or put on paper; but journalists can object to the administrative judge. Only that, of course, takes far too long, so I seriously wonder if exceptions can be made for journalists, for aid workers. I see that one, two, three, four, five amendments have already been tabled on the Red Cross, all different. So I'm curious as to how the Chamber wants to ride it together. Pre-consultation is also useful. Is it possible to make exceptions for groups of people from whom we really do not want matters to be submitted or to whom this cannot be presented? My colleague from GroenLinks has already indicated why this is very difficult for aid workers. It just doesn't seem to me to fit in with the state-law situation for journalists. Are these exceptions possible or are they not necessary because the law is not necessary? Those are the questions I have to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u73	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u74	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today, as one of your Members has rightly said, about an important new piece of puzzles in the legislation that deals with the criminalisation of terrorist acts. I think it is so important, because we can see that the Netherlands is now really starting to have a fine-meshed network of criminal regulations on that point. That's what's needed. Let me say something about the usefulness and necessity of this particular legislative proposal, which deals with the criminalisation of residence in an area controlled by a terrorist organisation. I would like to begin by thanking some of your Members, Mrs Van Toorenburg, for the fact that I can explain briefly to everyone what this is about. That said, there is a great added value of this bill compared to existing criminal law provisions. Of course, it is primarily in order to tackle people who travel with bad intentions to what I call "terrorist territory." In addition, it is important to prevent others from doing so, as Mr Sjoerdsma has rightly said, in order to travel to those areas and thus expose themselves to the risk of being indoctrinated and making a reprehensible contribution to terrorism. Thirdly, this added value is also practical. For a conviction it is necessary either that there is evidence showing specific activities of the suspects or that information is available about the situation in the area and the role of the Dutch in the area. Experience with the battle in Syria and Iraq shows that it takes time for a sufficiently clear picture to emerge of the situation on the ground and the role of emigrated Dutch people in the fight of the responsible terrorist organisation on the basis of which the prosecutor is able to successfully prosecute those persons. It is often complicated to prove this involvement in terrorist crimes, because it is simply complicated to find out exactly what has happened in those areas of conflict. We learn that from the situation of Syria and Iraq. This legislation will, of course, also deal with future situations in areas other than those at stake. The proposed criminalisation therefore provides for the possibility of taking action against persons who have travelled to an area under the control of a terrorist organisation without the permission of the Minister of Justice and Security, also in a situation which is very difficult and difficult to prove. By acting, I mean arresting the traveller on return, using investigative powers against him and prosecuting him. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of concrete points in this law. In reply to Mr Van den Berge, I would like to say a few words about the usefulness and necessity of this. Does that bill solve problems with regard to the return of terrorists? Well, this bill does indeed provide for, I said it in my initial comments on usefulness and necessity already.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the moment, fortunately, there are ways to deal criminally with persons who have travelled to Syria and Iraq, but that does not mean that we no longer need the bill. The experiences I have already said have shown, when you look at Syria and Iraq, that it can have added value if such a new terrorist area is created somewhere in the world. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of specific issues, taking the questions of your Members directly into account. The proposed criminalisation does not apply simply because the residence is only punishable if a particular area is designated. Then, of course, we will see if there is an area controlled by a terrorist organisation. And if that is the case, then that does not necessarily mean that we are going to designate that area, because we have two other questions to answer. The first question is: Is it necessary to designate the area? In addition, it is important that the purpose of the bill is to prevent the Dutch from travelling abroad to join a terrorist organisation there. That danger must therefore be present. For this we have to consider whether there is a risk that Dutch people will travel to the area. Or maybe that's already happening. Only in such cases will it be necessary to designate the areas. The second question is: is there any support for designation at international level? This is also important for international relations. Identifying an area is important, also because it makes a judgment about the state on whose territory this terrorist battlefield is located. We are looking, for example, at whether such an organisation is regarded as a terrorist organisation in an international context. Are there any sanction obligations in force with regard to that organisation? Is there international consensus on the situation in the area? This will enable you to answer the second question, namely whether there is support at international level for the designation. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the procedure for designating that. I'm not pointing that out alone. Those areas should be designated by AMvB. This is how we ensure that all ministers are involved, as well as the Council of State. In addition, by letter of amendment, I also arranged for your Chamber to be involved in the appointment. Your Room will always see the AMvB before it enters into force. And with that, it is very guaranteed that it is not all in the hands of one person, the Minister of Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. Then the delineation of the area. It must be clear that the AMvB clearly indicates what the area is, really by means of an exact geographical indication. So it shouldn't say: the area controlled by organization x. No, it's a geographically defined area. Now we all know that the boundaries of these battle zones can be fluid. That's pretty much in the word "combat zone." That is why we need to focus on the core area in the designation of the area. They do the same in Australia, for example, as Mrs Laan rightly pointed out. From December 2014 to November 2017, Australia has designated the Syrian province of Al-Raqqa as a declared area, a designated area. The same applies to the Mosul district of Iraq from March 2015. This was renewed in March 2018. Those areas were specifically designated because they played a central role as the basis from which IS or ISIS directed, encouraged and inspired violence. For example, Mosul played an important role as a central location for foreign extremists, where networks were formed and trainings were given and received. The province of Al-Raqqa was completely under the control of the terrorist organization and the capital of the province of Raqqa was also the de facto capital of the self-explained caliphate. In his introduction, Mr Van den Berge also said some impressive things about this. I think how the Australians did that is a good example of how it could be done. But that fluidity also means that it is sometimes necessary to change the boundaries of the area in order to be able to respond to them. I have therefore made it possible, by letter of amendment, to designate the new area by ministerial arrangement, in anticipation of an amendment to the AMvB. That can only be done temporarily, for a maximum of three months. After that, the AMvB must be adjusted. It will be a ministerial arrangement of Justice and Security and Foreign Affairs together. In this way it is ensured that both the criminal aspects, which are much more involved in that first question on the necessity, and the international aspects, which are more involved in the second question, are always well involved. Then, as has been said, it can always be submitted to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I will quickly answer a few questions on this subject, starting with Mrs Van Toorenburg. Yes, we can promote awareness internationally. In addition to travel advice, the Cabinet can also share information about the designation of areas internationally. A period of six weeks will always be observed before an indication of an area enters into force. I refer to what Mr Van der Staaij has proposed. I can go further in my own right if the House accepts the proposed amendment in those two weeks. I'll get to that later, but I think it's about your room. I don't want to fail your Chamber. If your room says "let's put it to two weeks," I'll agree to that. But I will come back to that formally when we discuss the amendments. Mr De Graaf asked about the situation in which a piece of Dutch territory is regarded as a controlled area. That is an unthinkable situation in itself, because you cannot ban Dutch people from staying in certain Dutch areas. This is inherent in our Constitution. Moreover, the question is what exactly is the relationship with the terrorist organisation in question? But I think that our Constitution says that we are staying here on Dutch territory. I thought it was a very interesting question. You could have a very philosophical debate about what it would mean if you had a battlefield in the Netherlands. But as interesting as that may be, I would like to spare you that tonight, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u75	That calls for an interruption, I see. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u76	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I know what the Minister's saying. Thank you for his answer on this point. That it is an interesting thought in itself is of course beautiful. Of course, we are not going to make it tonight, and I have not tabled an amendment on this. Maybe I should have. I did make that remark in order to think about the future, because that is what we are here for. I would like to give the Minister the question of how we should deal with areas that are actually already being shared by police bosses in authority with mosque authorities, Islamic neighborhood fathers or whatever happens during all kinds of Islamic fasting meals organised by the police. In this way, at least in part, we give up enforcement in certain areas. Perhaps we should stop doing so to prevent the scenario I outlined, the scenario I may have, from ever coming to fruition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u77	As I have often emphasised in other contexts in recent days, we still have a democratic rule of law in the Netherlands. That applies to our entire territory. The same applies to the Kingdom, which also applies to the overseas parts of that Kingdom and to the three Dutch public bodies which are also overseas. Let me stress that right away. So at the moment there is no question of a situation in which there is a terrorist battle zone somewhere in the Netherlands. That's one. Two. One of you, I believe Mrs Van Toorenburg, asked me whether this is not a model that I should also be promoting in other countries. Mrs. Laan was that, I'm sorry; I'd like to give everyone his credit. I certainly feel that way at EU level. Then it could be that if that strange, almost unthinkable situation that Mr De Graaf is describing and Germany, for example, has that kind of legislation, Germany considers that part of the Netherlands, I'm just saying: Schiermonnikoog, where a terrorist war zone has formed, to be a terrorist battle zone. Germany must have introduced this legislation by then. But of course they can only apply that to Germans. This is just to work through the theory. Once again, I would like to talk to Mr De Graaf about it, but I do not think now. That's the point about the designation of those areas. Mr. Chairman. All the points on Australia that Mrs Laan raised, I think, have already been dealt with. Denmark has also designated Mosul in Iraq, for example. It has also designated the Al-Bab district in Aleppo, Al-Thawrah district and Raqqa province in Syria, for example. All this was closely linked to the ISIS caliphate. We shall also make our own assessment in this regard. I would like to say to Mrs Van der Graaf that we are examining all the criteria for the area, but that they are not simply cumulative. Of course, it must always be an area controlled by a terrorist organisation and where there is a risk that Dutch people will travel there, but those are the two preliminary questions that I brought you into earlier. Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Raak asked if there were any such areas. I referred in my introduction to the areas that Australia previously assigned, and that could also apply to the areas that Denmark has designated, but I do not want to speak in the House of Representatives for certain areas. For that we will first have to build the law with each other and then establish the AmvB with veil in your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. This bill has no retroactive effect. It will therefore not apply to women and children who are now in camps in Syria. Not all future situations can be predicted. The question is, of course, whether these camps can be classified as 'terrorist territory'. I am not going to comment on this at the moment in the legislative proposal, because I am going to talk about specific situations, and this should be dealt with in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u78	The Minister says that he does not really want to talk about which of the current areas in the world could be eligible for this, but the core of such a legislative process is of course a little bit that you can see what it is for. I'm just asking a few questions to see if that's what the minister's thinking about or not. Take Boko Haram in northern Nigeria. Take Hezbollah and Lebanon. Take PKK area in Turkey, Iraq and Syria. Are those areas that could be covered, or not? I ask that to get a picture of what it's about when this law comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u79	I'll come back to the same point. I have mentioned a number of areas that have currently been designated by Australia and Denmark as such, just to give examples of how this has been done in other countries that have such a scheme and how it works out in practice. We can also imagine that. I then think that we should be careful together to deal with existing global situations, because then we are in danger of expressing a view that we might have when it occurs... Take Boko Haram in Nigeria. You just mentioned that example. If it were to be judged that such an area would pass through those two questions, I would put it all on a very conditional basis, then I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I should argue that thoroughly and then it should be submitted to you in the context of the AMvB's support. We must have an open debate on this. It should not be said: yes, but you are actually biased, because you are either a former or your predecessor, because you don't know if I will ever go away as Minister of Justice and Security again, said that once in a debate in 2019. That's what I think as a lawyer. I would now like to mention a few very recent and very recognizable examples from the past from other countries. That's how it worked there. That's how I see it working in the Netherlands in the future. That can also be on very other continents in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u80	I can, of course, go along with some of this, but then I read it this way and then I understand the Minister so that what has happened in the past... We would have like Australia also designated Raqqa or Mosul. It probably would have been. The Minister has this now for future situations in the back pocket, but he has no burning desire to use it now, otherwise we might have had those examples now. I think that's okay, 'cause then we can go straight ahead. Then it is legislation and you can say: here is a situation. We need to understand each other. The Minister now sees no situation that would be covered by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u81	I do not know whether we should now go into the question of the extent to which I have burning desires. No, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u82	I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u83	Then we are in complete agreement. This is, in principle, about a legislative proposal which certainly produces a good, substantive discussion about the principle that you are going to criminalise the fact that people have stayed in a terrorist area, in an area governed by a terrorist organisation. This is an important addition to the palette of criminal instruments in the field of terrorism. I believe that we should not mix this with what I might now consider geopolitically sensible, because then we will have the possible debate of an AMvB first. However, it is a fact that I have drawn attention to those areas in Syria and Iraq, two good examples where in the recent past Mr Van den Berge's introduction might very well have been very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u84	I understand that I may not get the full answer. That is a pity in itself, because the Minister has it in him to be very clear. Festivals, for example, he doesn't find that much. He'd rather not go there. But when it comes to putting in place a law that is potentially about combating terror, I would have expected that we could talk here about where we are going to apply it: I am thinking about this or perhaps not now, but this and this could be done. That's the essence of such a law. I understand very well the framework conditions outlined by the Minister. A terrorist organisation must control the area, Dutch people must go there and it must be diplomatic. But I did expect that there was an image at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and JenV that we should go through right away. If the Minister says no, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u85	I have given two examples from the recent past where Australia has done so: Mosul in Iraq and Raqqa in Syria. Denmark also had those areas plus, for example, the Al-Bab district and the Al-Thawrah district in Syria. I even mentioned the periods. I said that you could imagine that, if we had this regulation then, we would have allowed it to apply. Then everyone knows exactly what good examples these regulations could work on. could have worked. Then you should not go to the future, I say again, because then you will fill in something that I would like, if it is so far, to present to the Chamber as relative tabula rasa. I'd like to leave it at that. I don't recognize the comment about the festivals, so I'm not going to go into that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u86	Mr Van den Berge. It's been there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u87	The Minister's answer does not convince me yet, because we already have criminal law measures for the examples mentioned by the Minister. Furthermore, it is a bit hypothetical and theoretical. It does not convince me yet of the usefulness and necessity of the law. But my question is another. The Minister referred to the retroactive effect of the law as it did not have retroactive effect on children and children. I am very curious to see what happens in the future as a minor child, in this case under 12 years old, because the law does not apply to children under 12 years old, lives in a refugee camp or in an ISIS controlled area. If they are 12 years old, are they subject to the criminal law provision of this law or are they excluded? I can't wait to see how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u88	It wasn't really asked a question about it, but we don't have any regulation that regulates what the Australians in Mosul and Raqqa have done. That's why we're here tonight. Member Van den Berge suggested that we already have that regulation, but we don't have it yet. That's why we're here tonight. As regards the issue of children aged 12 years: criminal law is not intended for children under 12 years of age. If a child gets older than 12 years, I think it will depend very much on the situation. If a child has been living in such an area for a long time, from his or her 7th birthday, passing his or her 12th birthday in that area and then comes back to his or her 14th, I assume that it is not, in principle, a criminal offence for that child to have been in that area for two years. I would find that different if that child were to stay over the age limit in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u89	On that first point, we already have legislation for that. It's just forbidden to participate in a terrorist organization. Preparatory activities for, for example, an attack are also prohibited. I believe that this legislation is there to deal, for example, with returners from Syria and Iraq who really have something to do with them. On that second point: the children. In itself, the Minister's answer gives me a cautious optimism, but not entirely. The minister himself says he doesn't know exactly how this law would work for that group. I think we can make it even wider. I am also curious what happens, for example, to women who have gone along with them and who have been forced by their husbands to stay there. Can they be prosecuted? Does the fact that they have not left their family, for example their husband and their child, and have continued to live in the caliphate, constitute a criminal offence under this law? I am really worried about the drafting of this law and about the violation of human rights such as living with your family. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u90	It might be a good thing to read out: "With a prison sentence of not more than one year or a fine of the third category is punished (...) the Dutchman who... without permission of Our Minister of Justice and Security deliberately resides in an area designated by general measure of governance (...)." I am not going to go into individual future criminal proceedings, but I therefore believe that the set-up requirement lays down a clear threshold in the law. Mr President, you know how it works with the Acts. As far as children under 12 are concerned, I have just said that I do not think they should be a criminal offence for staying in a terrorist area over the age of 12 years. I repeat. In the meantime, if these children are involved in the acts of terrorism or in the preparation of them or something like that, that is another thing. I keep repeating, it's a bit of a chorus that this is actually a complement to the legislation that looks at terrorist behavior and the like. We don't have that legislation yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u91	I have also asked questions on this point, but I am hearing a different explanation from the Minister. I want to make that clear. The Minister wrote in the written rounds that those children are not, in principle, punishable for staying there. Of course, this applies to children under 12 years of age, but it would also apply to minors over 12 years of age. I have just heard the Minister say that he looks at this differently, namely that this may be different if children have turned 12 or 16 or 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u92	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u93	I would like to hear a clear line from the Minister in this debate on how this bill works for children passing 12 years or children under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u94	I have just added a few words to what is in the written explanatory statement. It says: older than 12 but underage not in principle and under 12 years old, Mrs Van der Graaf and I know this and I do not play the criminality at all. The question raised by Mr Van den Berge was: what are you doing with a child? In that Australian example you could have just had a child that had come in 2013 and has now aged over 12 years. I repeat that I do not think that this child, who was there before it was 12 years old, is punishable by the fact that it is still living in that terrorist area. That only applies to the residence, because if there are other offences, then it's all different again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u95	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u96	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u97	Then I dealt with all the points and questions about the designation of the areas. Then I'll come to the consent procedure. I would first like to discuss it in a general way and then I will focus on the journalists and the aid workers. It's good to see the consent procedure first. So what I am saying is not one-on-one for journalists and aid workers. They still have a considerably enlightened regime, so to speak. The ban on staying in the area applies to everyone. We have to, because then we can also deal with people we didn't have in mind before. The same applies to people who do not travel with wrong intentions. They could be involved in terrorist activities or still cross over to the other side, that of the terrorists. In areas controlled by terrorist organisations, there is often no option for foreigners other than forced acceptance of ideas and participation in the struggle. That is why I said at the beginning that an important objective of this article of law, as Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed out, is that we do not want the Dutch to travel to those areas, no matter how good or how bad the intentions are. But there can sometimes be significant interests for someone to stay there. That is why I have made it possible for someone to ask permission to stay in such an area despite the ban. In view of the importance of this law, we will be very reluctant to deal with it. Again, I'll be up in a minute to reporters and aid workers. Permission is really the exception, but it is possible. Let me first discuss these journalists and aid workers, because most of the questions are about that. Like several spokesmen, I think it is very important that journalists and recognised aid organisations can continue to do their job. This is one of the main reasons why the authorisation procedure should make an exception to the ban. This consent procedure allows journalists and aid workers to continue to travel to the area, despite the prohibition. It is not intended to hinder them in reply to Mr Sjoerdsma's question. The consent procedure is not an obstacle to travel, but rather a way to make it possible to travel. What is the solution to the objections? A number of things have indeed been raised. I have listened carefully to what has been said and then the following comes up: 1. Journalists employed by well-known media organisations, but also freelance journalists who publish professionally and aid workers employed by recognised aid organisations, are in principle authorised. They don't have to give information about exactly what they're gonna do in the area. I'm not interfering, and that's not the point. 2. Journalists and aid workers can get permission for a longer period of time, for example for a year, and during that year they can enter and leave whenever they want. They don't have to indicate exactly when they want to get in and out. We're not getting involved in that either. 3. Media organisations and aid organisations can ask for the consent of all journalists and aid workers working for them at once and do not have to do so separately. I can see this in front of me: once an area is designated, the media and aid organisations can pass on the names of the journalists and aid workers working for them. They will be authorised for one year and may be renewed after one year. Then no one has to be disturbed by the designation of the area. Then you can also guarantee independence. As has been said, we do not interfere with what and when someone wants to write, with whom he wants to talk, with what help is being given or with when exactly someone comes in and out. Mr Van Raak and some others have asked: why not the grounds for exclusion? There are a number of objections to this. Firstly, that is simply the legal uncertainty. In the case of criminal offences, you have to know in advance whether or not someone is a criminal offence. That's gotta be foreseeable. If you're gonna make an exception, it's gonna have to be very specific. A categorical exception for professions such as journalists or counsellors is not workable, as it does not include a clear, limited definition of professional requirements or legal requirements, such as those applicable to doctors or lawyers. If you're working with a penalty exclusion ground, then someone will not know for sure until they return. And I don't think that's legally, criminally, desirable. And then there's the point of the burden of proof. In the event of a penalty exclusion ground, the person who relies on it must prove that he is covered by it. The journalist who comes back must therefore make himself plausible that he was only working on reporting. What kind of counter-effect do you get? That journalist will at some point be his journalistic notes or his cassette tapes... Well, and I don't want that at all. That is one of the most important criticisms of the scheme in Australia. So they do have such an exception. So people have to prove that when they come back. The special rapporteur for human rights in the fight against terrorism of the UN also pointed that out. He said that this could conflict with the right to a fair trial. I do this very differently, together with the Foreign Minister, with that prior authorisation. I do not need to know that at all from the recognised media organisation... I do not care at all what it is... or the recognised aid organisation. That is the system that has also been chosen in Denmark. On the basis of the criminalisation in force there, persons may reside with permission in a designated area where a terrorist organisation is a party to an armed conflict. As in the legislative proposal, this possibility is provided for, inter alia, to enable journalists and aid workers to continue their work in the area. I'll come back later on to the whole Red Cross story. In any case, I understand that journalists have difficulty in giving my consent as Minister of Justice and Security. I would like to say it out loud once again: I have expressed the willingness to delegate this competence, as far as journalists are concerned, to the NVJ. Then the NVJ itself keeps a list of journalists to whom it consents. But then, of course, the NVJ will have to give the Public Prosecutor an insight into this in order to prevent people from being unjustly apprehended. And she will also have to return that to the NVJ on an annual basis as to how she deals with that jurisdiction. Anyway... At least I believe that this is really a way to solve it completely. We can always work out the consent of the NVJ.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u98	Would it also be conceivable that Dutch media should give a list, such as 'these are the journalists we are sending to such areas'? Then you don't have to ask for permission when there's something going on in an area. The journalists who have such permission will then be allowed to travel to such areas for a year. Then media can also adapt when such reporters are needed in another part of the world. Would the Minister care to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u99	That, of course, gives you the point that you need to keep an eye on that legal certainty again. You just need to know, this is the area we're talking about. Then you also know that you must have prior consent for that area. We really need to realize that. I'll help those reporters more if I give you that clarity. Again, it's fine to mandate the NVJ at that point if she would like to. Anyway, she'll have to keep up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u100	The Minister outlines the consent procedure. I think that a number of concerns have already been addressed. This can remove some of the fears of humanitarian organisations. However, I would like to ask a few more questions. The Minister has not yet said how quickly that consent can then be granted. I would like an answer to that. And are third parties informed that permission has been given? What's the deal with that, exactly? And if the importance of these organisations does not need to be demonstrated, what does that consent actually mean in practice? Is that purely because of the legal system? Or is there another reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u101	As far as the latter is concerned, which is of major importance, it is true that it is true that it is just as important that we pay attention to this outside the categories of journalists on the one hand, at least persons working as such or in a media organisation and so on, and on the other hand aid workers from recognised aid organisations. Suppose a citizen says, "I'd like to go into that area. I want to study a very rare rock there. I'll do that 30 kilometers from the terrorists' military camp." I'm just making up an example, but that's possible, of course. In such a case, it is necessary to consider the major importance for which those who would like to enter that area. So that's a completely different consideration. In my opinion, the time limit for authorisation will have to be set clearly in the AMvB, because it will also depend somewhat on the area in question. But I think that's always gonna have to be a short run. In addition, you have to think of a few weeks, if not even a shorter period. Journalists, as well as aid workers, often have to travel very quickly. I think that will be presented to you by AMvB. But I'm assuming very short deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u102	Then I would like to make a plea to keep that deadline really short. I imagine that the humanitarian organisations may already be working in the area at the time of agreement, the AMvB has passed and a specific area is designated. If you have to wait a few weeks for permission, then it is really too long for humanitarian aid organisations and journalists in that area. I would therefore really like to argue that this should be settled within a day. I think that is really important, also in view of what we have exchanged. I'd like a reaction to that. Then I have one more question: who are all aware of the consent granted to humanitarian organisations and journalists?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u103	That will only be registered with the Ministry, and still confidential. And the only party that will be able to take notice of that is the Public Prosecutor's Office. If this is to be done, for example for journalists, by the NVJ, then I am really talking about that being known only there, and if necessary at the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is why I said: then the NVJ must be prepared to answer once a year about whether it has implemented that competence and, if so, how. Let's talk about the deadlines. Let me be clear: in a number of cases authorisation must be possible within a few hours. Authorisation will perhaps take a little more time, for example a week, in cases where there is no very high urgency. That will also depend on the situation. But let's not make the problem any bigger than it is. As I have indicated to you, once such an area has been established, media organisations can immediately benefit from a generic exception for a longer period of time. That would be the same for aid organisations. So that can also be at a time of one or two days, and perhaps, so to speak, when one is already on the plane, somewhat depending on the circumstances of the case. But I would like to make it quite clear here, so that it is also stated in the Acts: in such a way that it is possible to carry out what has actually been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u104	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u105	Yes, finally, on this point. Often they will already be in the area, I imagine, especially with regard to humanitarian aid workers and journalists. I would really like a statement from the Minister that at the time that situation occurs, then on the same day that the area is designated, they will be allowed to do so, so that they are not punishable for a number of hours or days for the period they are already in that area. I would like that to be sharp, for the Acts and for the sake of certainty, for the people who work there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u106	Let me put it this way: that consent will be granted as soon as possible. It may occur that, in certain cases, consent is requested and can therefore be granted only if the person concerned has been in the terrorist area for a short period of time. That's how I put it. I also keep saying 'can', because of course you always have to see in what circumstance someone is already there, and that must be done within a short period of time. Otherwise I come across people who may have been sitting there for a very long time and suddenly think "let me give myself up as an aid worker" or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u107	I can only support the plea that aid workers and journalists should be given permission within a day. The Minister says that we should also look at this a little bit, depending on the situation. But the Minister does not see this as dependent on the situation, because the Minister does not ask the reasons for these two professions, and rightly so. He can't weigh that, so we have to make an agreement here tonight that these two categories will be approved within one day. If that can't be done orally, I'm going to put it in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u108	That is why I took a six-week deadline for entry into force. The proposal from your Chamber, in an amendment that I have left to your Chamber to shorten it to two weeks. That is, of course, also a time limit in which the aid organisation concerned knows: I now have to submit my request for authorisation in anticipation. I am quite honest in saying that I am not going to give an entirely precise, time-consuming view of what 'as soon as possible' means. I do think that we should realise the following. We have seen this with IS; as you know, that is another example from the past, which we are talking about now. We have seen that area had a certain degree of fluidity, and "a certain measure" is perhaps an understatement. If you define such an area at some point, as the Australians have done a few times again, you must indeed give people a certain period of time to establish that they are in such an area. As Mrs Van der Graaf said, one can think: I suddenly find myself in such an area, when it was not a terrorist area six weeks ago; but now it is fixed by the Chamber, so I have a certain time to make that application. But once again, especially if media organisations and aid organisations can obtain generic consent, I can expect that they themselves will be able to get that consent as soon as possible. Otherwise, it's all gonna be a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u109	That strengthens me in the belief that I am going to table that motion. I'll explain why. Let me take the example that the Minister himself cites, that of the Islamic State. Suppose the minister had designated Raqqa, including Kobani, as a terrorist area in the early days. That would not have been wrong; that would have been a rightful decision. But in that period a situation arose in Kobani, a Kurdish border town: the city was surrounded and there were poignant humanitarian conditions. Some organisations could sneak across the Turkish border to provide humanitarian aid there. So it is about hours, or just that minute to be able to go between the front lines and provide help. That's why it should be standard one day. If that is not the case, then there is a risk, and that is not possible! We are obstructing humanitarian aid organisations in their work. The same applies to journalists to a lesser extent. A story, a scoop, can't be expected in itself. Then potential is lost not only a journalistic story, but also evidence, which is important here in court. So I would really like to ask the Minister to just say it out loud; make it one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u110	I'm not gonna do that, because then you're gonna capture it way too generic. I'm warning your room... Let me rephrase. I would like to draw Mr Sjoerdsma's attention to how things can work out. You could get the situation perhaps not with me, but later with a successor, who asks how it went again with that law that a ruler is very anxious and says: I have to decide in one day, but I find that too complicated, so I am not giving permission. I would like to put it together once again for the sake of care. Firstly, we have the deadline for entry into force. I refer to the opinion of your Chamber when it adopts that amendment and takes it back from six weeks to two weeks. But otherwise it's six weeks. Then we really have plenty of time to report or consider. That's one. Two. Then there is also Mrs Van der Graaf's point during the six-week period that someone can discover that, because the fluid has become, he is suddenly in a terrorist area. That is why it has plenty of time to consider it. That's two. Three. I also said that even if it is not fluid, it may be that someone is already there. Then that person can still get permission. And then I say four: in any case, the request for consent will be dealt with as soon as possible, defining "as soon as possible" in the light of the circumstances of the case. Mr Sjoerdsma and I will soon agree that in the event of a state of emergency in which emergency aid must be provided by aid organisations, it is really a matter of 24 or 48 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u111	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u112	What the Minister's saying does scare me a little bit. He says: well, a future minister can also decide that we do not give a humanitarian aid organisation permission. That's a weird statement. 'Cause that's what we all radiate here, of course. The entire House of Representatives has given its opinion on this matter. The same goes for this minister. But if the Minister says: if Mr Sjoerdsma wants to deal with it this way, then of course it is a possibility that a future minister will do so. Then we'll have to think of something to rule that out. I actually have a very different question, but I would like to challenge the Minister to make sure that is not possible. I would not want a future minister to give the opportunity to hinder these organisations. That is not in the spirit and it does not fit in with the Constitution of the Netherlands, which states that we are promoting the international legal order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u113	And your other question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The other question is a bit more specific. This minister was talking about mandating the NVJ. That's an interesting thought. Then I'd like to turn it around, too. Perhaps journalists can be verified by means of a press card at the Dutch Association of Journalists. Then they can get permission afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u115	No, I'll get back to that legal uncertainty. We need to know about each other in advance. At most you may find yourself there and say as soon as possible: I am there now; give me permission, and so on. But we shouldn't say it afterwards. Well, then we're gonna go back into the wrong review with each other. Once again, if the NVJ says that it is actually okay with her getting that mandate, which is an important point of confidence of this minister in the NVJ, then it is up to the NVJ to check it on the basis of membership or other things. Well, that's not up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u116	Then I will go to Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the hand-out that the Minister is giving to humanitarian aid organisations and journalists, but my concern is precisely the point that Mr Sjoerdsma has just raised. The minister just told me that another minister would suddenly be able to arrange this differently. That is why my question is: shouldn't we just lay this down in the law? The Minister says beautiful things in his own right, which he undoubtedly intends to regulate by means of a general measure of governance. I trust that. But if we really want to do this right, then we should just settle it in the law, either by means of a letter of amendment by the Cabinet or by means of an amendment by the Chamber. These exceptions, the generic authorisation for recognised aid organisations and bona fide journalists, should then be included in the legislative text. Then we should not leave that to future ministers who then act in accordance with what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u118	The good thing is that I have already said that there are policy rules for this. And that's what the AMvB is for. And that AMvB is being hung in front of your room. For the sake of time, I am not going to repeat who is not looking at it, but I have already mentioned the whole Council of Ministers. And I call your room, not an insignificant factor either. So I think there really are a lot of guarantees in that. The only thing I have said about the urgency of Mr Sjoerdsma's concern is that we must do something about that concept 'as soon as possible'. I have explained quite well in parliamentary history what that means. We must be careful that we do not just want to put that at four o'clock or one day or something, because then we could fall into the trap of getting caught up in certain cases, and we do not want that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u119	I do not really hear in the Minister's replies what would be against the law that we grant these two groups of recognised humanitarian aid organisations and bona fide journalists a generic permission to travel to these areas. Why can't we just fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u120	I have mentioned these arguments in detail. I would like to repeat that whole piece, but it had to do with not being legally defined what a journalist is. What's a lawyer is governed by the Law of Lawyers. Still, at least when I was a lawyer. That's a defined, legally protected profession. For example, there are more professions to which this applies. Notaries, for example. Anyway, I don't know if a lot of notaries will travel to terrorist territory. You never know. But these are professions that you can say: someone is sworn, for example, in accordance with notary law and that sort of thing more. You don't have that for journalists and aid organizations. Now my point is this. Some of you will remember that we also had this discussion in the debate on the protection of journalists' sources. Then I said: use the term publicist for all I care, because it does not concern me as a minister whether someone publishes for the first time, whether he does it for a book or for a very small circle. I shouldn't go in there. That was because it's an unrecognised profession. We must therefore continue to review the legislation in the light of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u121	Finally, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u122	The complicated answer to this question is that the Minister is actually saying that it can be done through a general administrative measure, but it could not be done in the law. I admit it's not easy to define "journalist," but I still don't understand that very well. So I hear what the Minister is saying, but I don't understand why it could be done by general measure of governance and not by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u123	As far as this general measure of governance is concerned, I have said that it is mainly about people working in a recognised media organisation, or journalists who are recognised as freelancers and so on. I've worked all that out. So that's different. Again, in an AMvB you can record that by area. There's a little more room in there. But in the law, when it comes to criminal law, we have to be very precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u124	Before anyone who listens now thinks that we are really talking about a huge problem, I want to put it into perspective. Is it not true that the Minister has explained that he is in the process of preparing himself for the question of which area should be designated and that all this time everyone who is active in that area has plenty of time to register with the Minister so that the moment it is appointed can give the Minister his consent? Nobody has to wait for that, right? I'd like to be very clear with the Minister. There's a time he's been thinking about that area. This is all discussed with organizations. Otherwise, he wouldn't even know if the area should be designated. Well, that's something anyone can sort of sign up for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u125	This is a correct representation of how it will go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u126	So we're sitting here for half an hour talking about something that won't happen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u127	All right, Mrs. Van Toorenburg. Then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u128	Let me ask you an informative question. I also heard the Minister speak about the AMvB in the interrupting debate with Mr Van den Berge. As far as I understood from the law and the explanatory statement, the AMvB only looks at the area to be designated and the whole consent procedure is contained in policy rules. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u129	That's right. Mr. Chairman. At the risk of saying things that we can do in less than half an hour, I would like to address questions from Mrs Laan and Mrs Van der Graaf, among others. Aid workers employed by recognised aid organisations are, in principle, authorised and therefore do not have to provide information on what they are going to do there. I've already said a few things about Australia. Mr Van den Berge also asked about the United Kingdom. There it is stated in the law that residence is not punishable if someone resides exclusively in the area because of a number of exceptions. Then you come back to the point that in those countries you have to prove afterwards that you were working there as a journalist. The criticism of the UN rapporteur I mentioned earlier therefore also applies to the English system. There is no exception in the EU directive on terrorism, to the extent that you refer to it. It only includes a recital, an explanation, specifically on the Red Cross. I would not refer to that directive, because that would only get us further away from home for the aid workers and the journalists we are focusing on. I think I answered most of the questions; we did that in that half hour. Moreover, national aid organisations may also be given their position during this period of authorisation. (NL) Mr President, I think I have to deal with some of the last issues and various. Um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u130	Well, then I'm going to see Mr. Sjoerdsma. As always, he has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u131	Absolutely. A brief question: why has the cabinet not chosen to exempt humanitarian aid organisations financed by the Dutch State from the authorisation procedure? After all, we have a financial relationship and we know that they provide humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u132	Well, Mr President, we are already a little ahead of the amendments that have been tabled on the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u133	They also need to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u134	Yes. Well, let me just say that right away, because I'll be able to get through it faster. The Red Cross has a very special position. The Red Cross is the scholars differ in opinion on this issue, founded in 1864. The founder was one of the founding fathers of the Geneva Conventions which were established between 1864 and 1949. It is just as good to see that, because you can see that the Red Cross has acquired a special, very independent and state-wide position in these Geneva Conventions. The Dutch Red Cross has its own Royal Decree. This means that it really is a special organisation with a special internationally recognised position. This position also means that the Red Cross, for example, is mentioned in that Royal Decree and is also reflected in our criminal law. In doing so, I immediately answered Mr Van der Staaij's point a little bit, but he himself gave the answer in the very last sentence of his speech. Then I can now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u136	That wasn't the question. The question was why the cabinet did not choose to exclude humanitarian aid organisations other than the Red Cross from this law if there is a financial relationship. By the way, the bill does not mention the Red Cross either, because it comes from the Chamber. In other words, these are aid organizations which provide emergency aid to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Why aren't they excluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u137	That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u138	Yes, that is in line with this response. Those are not aid organisations which have the same international law, except and a position actually above all other organisations as the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u139	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u140	That is, of course, an attempt at an answer, but the essence is that all these organisations, including those funded by the Netherlands, not being the Red Cross, must all comply with humanitarian principles and are subject to international humanitarian war law. This means that they must be able to operate independently, even if they want to go somewhere. So the question is just as real as a legal question. Why did not the Minister choose to do so, because there is no such distinction between the Red Cross and the other humanitarian organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u141	I have already explained why this exception was made for the Red Cross and not for other organisations. I'd like to repeat it a few more times, but that's really what it's like. That's why I can use the... Okay, well, we're gonna have to take a look at that later if we're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u142	... the amendments...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u143	... the amendments are coming, but we're going to do that later. Since I want to make no mistake about this, I would just like to make it very clear that the Red Cross has a very fundamental international position. This is not comparable to any international aid organisation in international law. Mr. Chairman. I've got a few more varia. Mrs Van Toorenburg's varia are about excluding children by definition. In criminal law under 12 years old, I don't think I have to stand still for very long. That has been explained immediately. We talked about Australia. Mr Krol and Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the new criminal offence would be used instead of a more serious criminal offence. That fear is unfounded. It is beyond any doubt that tackling terrorism is an effective approach with top priority. If concrete terrorist crimes can be proven, we will, of course, go for them. Through you, Mr President, I say to Mr Van der Staaij that I indicated in my introduction that this applies at least to those situations where there are concrete problems of proof. Children who want to visit their families, I say to Mr Van den Berge, can ask permission. The right to family life is a fundamental right, so that is well balanced. The measure to withdraw Dutch citizenship is, in essence, a direct measure based on the person who poses a threat to Dutch society and national security. This is the case if it is sufficiently clear that the person has committed terrorist offences or participated in jihadist organisations. That is precisely not required in the case of the application of this criminal offence. A person is already punishable if he has entered a designated area without permission. So the two of them don't fit together. Mr. Chairman. Proof of residence can be provided by airline tickets, flight data and the like, messages to family members from the area, information collected before departure by the suspect and so on. That was in response to Mr Van den Berge's question. Is it true that anyone returning from a designated area can be taken into remand? Yes. The new sentence is included in Article 67 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I can work it out in more detail, but I think the answer is sufficient. Knowing Mr Krol, he knows exactly how that will work. That's how I discussed all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u144	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u145	I have asked another question as to whether the principle of good faith can be withdrawn retroactively. It's possible. There is a piece in the law which states that if afterwards it turns out that people were somewhere in good faith, it can still be granted in good faith, in passing. Can it also be withdrawn retroactively?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u146	Does Mr De Graaf mean that the authorisation can be withdrawn retroactively? I can see him nodding yes. I believe that authorisation can always be withdrawn retroactively. The question is, what kind of criminal effect does that have? I'll come back to that in the second term, because I wonder if...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u147	Okay, well, then, come back to that. Now for the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u148	The amendment in part No. 8 on the legal exception for the Red Cross and journalists. It is clear that I must discourage that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u149	That has been changed to No. 10. So that's not recommended?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u150	Yes. For the amendment to item No. Nine is the same. No legal exception for journalists and aid workers. Then I have the amendment to item No. 11 about punishment. I'll leave that to judge Chamber. The amendment in part No. 12...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u151	That's number 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u152	No. 12 is No. 16 years old. I also leave that amendment to the House's discretion. The amendment in part No. 13 also, about permission to groups. That's Mrs. Van der Graaf's. I also think it is important that journalists and aid workers are not hindered, that is clear. Indeed, the possibility of allowing members of a particular organisation for a certain period of time at once is a good solution. The legislative proposal already allows that possibility, but it is fine to state that explicitly in a provision. So the amendment in part No. 13 of the member Van der Graaf is judged Chamber. I would like to make a few comments on this point. I have already indicated to Mr Van der Staaij 14 that I leave that judgment to the Chamber, for the reasons given there. Have I discussed all the amendments? I thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u153	The amendment in part No. 15 is No. 17 years old. That's still missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u154	That is an amendment which I must also advise against, for the reasons I have just mentioned. Moreover, apart from my dissuade, I note that it is not complete linguistically what it says. I am sorry for this cleverness, but it says: Article 1 (...) inserts 'or as a representative of an impartial humanitarian organisation designated by international law, including humanitarian law,' but is not clearly defined as what. Anyway, I'm not telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u155	A brief response, Mr. Sjoerdsma. It has already been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u156	Yeah, sure, I'm always willing to answer some shit. That is the correct translation of what is contained in various directives. The normal translation was more stringent. That "marked" is a somewhat more open legal translation, which is quite common.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u157	Then I guess it's meant to be "identified," but okay, I'm gonna leave it that way. I would advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u158	Then there was one amendment, unless we did not follow it very closely. No. 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u159	That was a serial number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u160	That's right. It was 12 years old, and that turned 16 years old. That's what got judgment, Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u161	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u162	Almost the entire room is underneath. That's what I'd do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u163	I also have an immediate answer to Mr De Graaf. Then that's what we've been through. Can ex post consent be withdrawn with retroactive effect? Yeah, I'm willing to say the following. If consent has been given on the basis of incorrect or false information found to be later, then the consent may be deemed not to have been given retroactively. So it's possible in that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u164	Thank you. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u165	False information should then actually be the source of the withdrawal of that consent. Of course, it may also be the case that correct information has been given, but that the behaviour of the person concerned still gives rise to the withdrawal of the consent. This can be done, for example, because vlogs or other types of information channels show that this person has not behaved as expected, while the information given in advance may have been correct. Maybe there's a little bit there that's still completely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u166	That's clear, but it doesn't have retroactive effect. You say "yet." So if someone in that area is just working for a relief organization for the first three months, this is a conceivable scenario, and then because of the contacts he has with some kind of variation in stockholm syndrome suddenly starts identifying himself with the terrorists, at least not working for the aid organization anymore and says, "I'm not doing anything for you anymore," then from that moment on, the consent is no longer applicable, because it was granted for the situation that the aid provider was in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u167	And if the person is still an aid worker but also carries out those activities? Is it possible, then, for the fact that incorrect information has been given in advance? Can it be shaved underneath? For it may also have been a development in the personality or ideological development of someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u168	No, wait a minute. The interesting thing is that they are nice debates with Mr De Graaf, I must confess that someone is in that area. He has received permission from me or my successor to be there, because he works there for aid organization X. At some point he continues to work for aid organisation X, but there are evidence that he is now also making bombs for the terrorist organisation concerned. Then he's punishable by the fact that he's making those bombs, and fortunately we're not getting into this hybrid. If someone just makes a phone call to me or sends a letter to me and says "friendly friend, I'm not there for that aid organization" I don't have any proof of those bombs, but I know he's no longer in charge of that aid organization and then the consent no longer applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u169	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u170	Mr President, allow me. I was just thinking about a little figment I had when I had to submit my thesis to my thesis. One of the theories was: subject someone who suffers from stockholm syndrome never to osloconfrontation. I thought he was funny myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u171	To what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u172	Never subject someone with a stockholm syndrome to osloconfrontation. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions. I'm gonna be brief. I think the Minister has made it quite clear that he attaches great importance to the need for aid workers and journalists to continue to be able to do their work in these areas. I think that it has also become very clear that since the designation of an area does not fall out of the sky, everyone can anticipate that. I think the Ministry can make a decisive contribution to that. You often know that an area is in great trouble, thanks to journalists and people who provide help there. Otherwise it simply doesn't know and you don't even have reason to believe that something needs to be done. I asked one question about the youth. It wasn't quite clear to me for a while, but I think I get it by now. Of course, under 12 years of age is not prosecuted, and above 12 years of age is not, in principle, prosecuted, but it could be. If a family with a 17-year-old leaves who is motivated to the teeth too, it really isn't that way, but you know what I mean, it could be that someone is being prosecuted. That's how I understand it. I'd like to confirm that for a moment. For the sake of clarity, I think we will follow the Minister's advice on the amendments. Then the members have a bit of an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u173	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my thanks on behalf of the VVD for the fact that, after five years and on our own initiative, we hope to be able to decide by a majority of the Chamber on the adoption of this law next week. In that sense, I would like to thank the Minister. I would also like to thank him for answering the questions and for his reactions to the amendments we have tabled. We are looking back on a fruitful debate. And Mr. Chairman, thank you for chairing tonight, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We support the bill. A number of issues were raised this evening, including the position of journalists and aid workers. I was still hesitant as to whether it is justified to give the Red Cross that separate position, but I find the argument for that convincing. I have also looked at the fact that, for example, Article 435c of the Code of Criminal Law prohibits the use of the symbol of the Red Cross. So it is indeed a very specific organisation. When it was dressed like that, I almost wondered if it wasn't an international organization in the sense of the law. Then it would not be necessary to appoint this organisation separately. But there is specifically a list of international organisations and that does not include the Red Cross. So I think it is indeed legally correct to do it this way. I still see the Minister speaking in sign language at the moment, so if there is anything else, I will hear that in his reply in the second term. Thank you also for the positive response to my amendment for reducing the time limit in the event of this urgent procedure. We will also support the amendment on the increase in penalties. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u177	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. These are indeed often interesting debates, especially when it comes to ascertaining people's behaviour, in any place. Because, of course, that has a lot of implications for the way legislation looks at the end of the day. Much is simply about behavior, and in this case not the most beautiful behavior humanity has and shows. On the issue of the withdrawal of nationality, the Minister said that this is not entirely in line with the legislative proposal. That is why I would like to ask the Chamber for a ruling on this. I'll do that by way of a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas travellers to terrorist territory have never again anything to look for in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a measure aimed at depriving the Netherlands of any person convicted of staying in terrorist territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35125-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u179	Furthermore, it is not superfluous to mention that we will indeed support the legislative proposal, as well as the Van der Staaij amendment and the Laan-Geselschap amendment, which I believe has been signed by several people. On the other amendments, I shall have my say in the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u180	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister and colleagues for the substantive debate. It is good that at least we now seem to have something arranged for the Red Cross. I am drawing the amendment to part No. 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in respect of Amendment No 9 in respect of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of Amendment No 9 in favour of
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u182	The Van den Berge amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u183	I also welcome the Minister's hand-out to journalists and humanitarian aid organisations. Actually, I'm still looking for a legal hook to anchor that a little tighter. I would also like to thank Mr van der Staaij for his legal opinions and questions. It's a matter of looking sharp. I will see if I can get the amendment to item No. Sixteen are going to change, but I'll hold on to it for a while. I have heard very well what the Minister said about defining the term 'journalist' and 'humanitarian aid organisation'. I'm gonna see if we can formulate that smarter. In his first term, the Minister said that the European Counter-Terrorism Directive would only say something about the Red Cross in the recital. In my view, but perhaps that is a side-step, Article 38 does say something about the conduct of humanitarian activities by impartial humanitarian organisations. Anyway, that's not the most important point. I welcome the space that seems to exist for humanitarian organisations and journalists. I must honestly say that even after the Minister's reply and the debate here in the Chamber, I am still not convinced of the purpose, usefulness and proportionality of this bill. So we are going to consider how we will ultimately vote on this. At least it was a fruitful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u184	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u185	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive first-term response and the good debate we have had. I believe that there have been very important points in it and have also been discussed in detail. Let us be honest, let us hope that we in this world do not get back into the situation that areas such as the IS Caliphate need to be designated. Mr Sjoerdsma said it nicely in the first term: this bill is intended to prevent people from travelling to such an area that have no business there, but at the same time you do not want people who work there, such as journalists and humanitarian workers, to make the work impossible and hinder them. Mr. Chairman. We came to speak in the debate about the request of consent. Mrs Van Toorenburg is right to say that you may see a long time in advance that an area could be designated, so you can prepare the application. But it is precisely the granting of consent, the decision on it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft law provides for an application procedure for obtaining authorisation to reside in an area controlled by a terrorist organisation;]] [[Whereas on-the-spot situations may be suggested for aid workers and journalists requiring authorisation in the shortest possible time;]] [[Whereas this may also apply to emergency workers travelling from the Netherlands or other safe countries in the event of a sudden crisis;]] [[calls on the Minister to provide for an emergency procedure for aid workers and journalists with a maximum lead time of twenty-four hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35125-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The majority of the Chamber agrees on the need for this law. It is about keeping people from a terrible area to prevent them from committing crimes or taking inspiration to commit crimes here in the Netherlands. There is also a great deal of agreement on the opposite, namely making it possible for people who do have something to do there, such as journalists and aid workers. About the way it isn't. There are a few things I want to touch in this second term. I was concerned, however, that this Minister said that it was not excluded that in future the Minister would not give this consent automatically to aid workers and journalists. That is why I believe that this law requires a categorical exception. If he leaves this option open, then that categorical exception should simply be included in the law. I also hope that Mr Van der Staaij will take another look at this. I highly recommend that he do. I'd also be willing to talk about that for a while. That is why I tabled the amendment with Mr Van der Graaf. Perhaps the fellow Minister of BuHa-OS could otherwise send a letter stating whether this is in line with the humanitarian principles that the Netherlands has endorsed. If that's the case, I'm gonna have a burden on my shoulder. But if it isn't, the Chamber should know. Then the speed of procedure. It can't be weeks. It's gotta be 24 hours. That is why I supported Mr Van der Graaf's motion. Finally, I will table the next motion for journalists. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need for journalists to maintain their impartial status in order to provide independent reporting, in particular in conflict areas;]] [[noting that prior authorisation from the Dutch Government to enter a particular area may impede the impartial status of journalists;]] [[noting that the explanatory memorandum of legislative proposal 35125 states that ex post authorisation may also be granted for the stay in territory controlled by a terrorist organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to allow journalists to be authorised subsequently by means of a press card verified by the Nederlandse Vereniging van Journalisten (Netherlands Association of Journalists),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35125-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u187	I have another question about the amendment to item No. 17, which is actually a bit of an alternative to the amendment to item No. 16, by Mrs Van Toorenburg and others. In itself, I certainly have sympathy for the idea "shouldn't it concern more organisations?'. But my question is whether it is sufficiently clear and clear what humanitarian organisations are designated by international law or working in accordance with humanitarian law of war. Isn't that simply too undetermined to be included in a criminal provision? Doesn't that give you too much legal uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u188	I hear very well what Mr Van der Staaij is saying here. The challenge in drafting these amendments has, of course, been to be so precise. You can't take names of organizations that you think are supposed to be. At that level, you can't record that in a law. That's not right. You can't talk about subsidy frameworks either, because they change every four or five years. I am looking for a way, perhaps Mr Van der Staaij has suggestions there for what we say: yes, the Red Cross has a separate status; we want to exclude that organisation. That is what Mr Van der Staaij said. But I would also like to have that exception for humanitarian aid organisations financed by the Dutch State. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be. Maybe that's just enough. But I have not yet found the wording as precise as Mr Van der Staaij would like. I'm open to improvements in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u190	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u191	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u192	Mr. Chairman. A few small points have been raised. I would like to return very briefly to Mr Van der Staaij's point. I'm gonna grab my phone, 'cause I looked it up. That special status with independence and immunity really is the Red Cross. What I myself, with some silent admiration, must of course note with the Red Cross is that it is fair to say that it is not included in the list of international organisations, because the Red Cross is simply put above it in international law and also in international humanitarian war law as a sui generis. Then it is of course anecdotal that Henri Dunant himself has been one of the tractors of the Geneva conventions, as I just said. So the United Nations, in the eyes of an organization like the Red Cross, is actually just looking. That is what I wanted to say, and I have already entered into the exchange of views which Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van der Staaij invited. I am not involved in this, but I wanted to make this very clear. Mr Van den Berge is now gone, but I would just like to point out to him...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u193	He's here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u194	Oh, there he is. That is a good thing, because I would have liked to point out to him that what he refers to in the terrorism directive is not an article. It is recital 38 of that Directive. As I said in my first term, that recital is as follows. I'll read it to you briefly anyway. "The performance of humanitarian activities by impartial humanitarian organisations recognised by international law, including international humanitarian law, shall be outside the scope of this Directive." When you apply close reading, as it is called, you will find that this is about the Red Cross. That's what I said in the first installment. This isn't in the articles. The articles say nothing about other humanitarian organisations. In recital 38, only the exception for the Red Cross was specifically made. That is what I like about this legislation. There are three motions. Mr De Graaf's motion for a resolution 18, I'm not sure. It's too far-reaching. We are talking about a single residence and, as soon as there is evidence of concrete terrorist offences, it is possible to withdraw them. I am not going to explain this in detail. In the motion in part No. 19 try to include Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Sjoerdsma for 24 hours. If I can read the motion in such a way that it merely says "calls on the Minister to provide for an emergency procedure for aid workers and journalists, and goes to the order of the day," I can give that motion a ruling Chamber. But I would advise against the motion if there were such a time limit in it. It may also happen within an hour or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u195	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u196	I'll give you that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u197	May I take a chance on mediation? If we made it "if possible"? Then it says that it is really a compelling wish, but sometimes it cannot be absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u198	This is considered constructively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u199	Mr. Sjoerdsma is holding still.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u200	If I may read it in such a way that it says "with, if possible, a lead time of up to 24 hours," I can give the motion judgment Chamber. I'll take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u201	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u202	Shall I make the next motion? In the meantime one can walk to the microphone in respect of the motion in part no. 19 to say what one thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u203	Mrs. Van der Graaf already knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u204	I think it's okay if I have a little more back-spoke with the co-subsidiary. We'll get back to you for the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u205	Tuesday's the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u206	Constructivism beckons the horizon. Mr Sjoerdsma's motion for a resolution 20 is about the press card. I have already said the necessary things about this in the first term. I have to discourage that motion, even in all that kind of contexts of including it in the law. I explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u207	Then I want to thank you so much. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-12.u208	We will be voting on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motions for resolutions next Tuesday. Mrs Van der Graaf will probably change her motion before Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the people who are following the debate, the messengers, the officials, the Stenographic Service, everyone.
