ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the law 35010: Amendment of the law on the child-related budget in connection with raising the income limit of the child-related budget for couples. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House. It's a special day for her. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the cabinet's intention to provide extra support for couples with children. Who could be against that? Families with low and middle incomes may, however, need compensation for the costs of children. The Secretary of State proposes to further support middle-income working parents by increasing the point where the income-dependent reduction of the child-related budget begins for couples. This means that a total of almost EUR 500 million additional child-related budget is added. This has the additional advantage of reducing the high marginal pressure on the income path between the minimum wage and a modal income. And families in the Caribbean Netherlands also share in the increase in child benefits through the BES child benefit provision. Hooray! With exclamation point. If this were the only proposal in the draft law before us, it would have received warm support from the PvdA. Then why a debate? Well, according to the letter of amendment, the State Secretary does not wish to apply indexation of the child-related budget in 2020. I come to her letter on this matter yesterday. First of all, I'd like to consider the mistake that was made at the IRS. Indeed, after 2008 no fewer than 300,000 to 400,000 parents were wrongly denied a child-related budget. At two moments it went wrong with the IRS. Firstly, when designing the supplement system, it assumed that parents would have to apply for the child-related budget themselves after the cessation. But that's not right by the law. Secondly, the Tax Administration did not respond to signals that there was a design error in the system of automatic assignment. No less than 65,000 parents have called the IRS about this. Still, the service didn't ring a bell. Well, literally, yes, but figuratively not. The Tax Office fixes the errors from 2013 to 2019, I read. But why not the one from 2008 to 2012, I ask the Secretary of State. Why did the Secretary of State intend to lay down the bill for resolving the error with those with low income and single parents? That is really indigestible for my group. "Hooray" with a big question mark. Until yesterday, we received a letter in which the Secretary of State wrote: "At the end of last week, the first discussion took place in the cabinet on purchasing power development and August decision-making. It noted that non-indexing of the child-related budget has negative purchasing power effects for a number of household groups." Where the cabinet defended the non-indexation of this bill in writing, it now comes back to this. The PvdA was pleased to do so, but it does raise the question to the Secretary of State as to why this is only now happening. After all, the negative purchasing power effects were known. Mr. Chairman. As we have often seen in the cabinet lately, the Secretary of State has turned a number of buttons, but unfortunately the much-needed revision of the machine is not there. For example, the Van Dijkhuizen Committee recommends integrating the care allowance, the rent allowance, the child benefit and the child-related budget into one combined supplement. This represents a significant improvement in the feasibility from the point of view of the Tax Administration. Does the Secretary of State intend to take this opinion? If not, how can it prevent errors such as those relating to the child budget from being made by the Tax Administration in the future? The government pays more than EUR 15 billion in supplements each year. Over six million of the eight million households receive one or more: the care allowance, the rent allowance, the child-related budget and the childcare allowance. The study Refunding fees from the General Court shows that between 2012 and 2017 households heard no less than 15 million times after the end of the supplement year that they had to repay advances. And sometimes only two to four years after the special year. The social consequences of the supplement drama for individuals and families are great. More than half a million households take more than two years to pay off all debts. Especially low incomes and parents who have to pay multiple supplements are in big trouble. For most households, this represents more than 10% of net monthly income. As a result, the government is known by the recovery of surcharges as an important debt instrument if not the main cause of debt problems among the Dutch. This debt machine really needs to be repaired or simply replaced, my party colleague Wimar Bolhuis argues in his opinion contribution This surcharge system is a debt machine. The Secretary of State is the coordinating director of the government's broad debt approach; a plan with about 40 measures aimed at preventing and reducing problematic debt. In what way does it intend to make the payment system as a debt machine part of this broad debt approach, I ask her. Thick tears with an exclamation point, Chairman! And that's how I get back to the child-related budget. My group finds it incomprehensible that developments in this area are being used not only to improve the feasibility not only for the Tax Administration but also for the citizens. And there is much room for improvement in that latter area. The national Ombudsman's investigation shows the following. A single parent with a part-time job and two children has to do with 12 income elements, 18 different forms and 80 payment times per year. The system of child-related budget remains complex for citizens due to the many and different conditions of the scheme. The Secretary of State is undoubtedly familiar with the report Weten is not yet done by the Scientific Council for Government Policy. This describes the great difference between what is expected of citizens and what they can actually handle. Where we often wrongly assume that correct knowledge automatically leads to action, it turns out that "knowing" does not automatically lead to "doing." Effective policies are therefore policies that take into account the nature of human behaviour and the factors that influence it. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to describe the effectiveness of the child-related budget system from this perspective. Mr. Chairman. The Childcare Act is a similar example from the Secretary of State's portfolio. In the current system, this is paid as an advance to parents, but it depends on current income. As a result, 70% of parents have to pass on changes annually, 50% have no idea of their own contribution, 34% have to deal with recoveries and 48% with late payments. This makes it a source of temptation, stress and debt. The WRR therefore recommends that funding be directed directly to institutions and that data provided by parents be minimized. However, a major change in the system requires too much effort from the government and childcare organisations, according to the cabinet response. I must conclude from this that the capacity of the citizens for the cabinet is less heavy than that of the government, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I'm finishing up, not with a three-horse hooray for the cabinet. On the contrary. During the recent coalition negotiations, there may have been cheering about the creative twist of buttons to support couples with children in addition to the discussions on the August decision-making process, but in the next coalition negotiations my group hopes that the machine itself will be overhauled in such a way that surcharges are transferred directly to housing corporations, health insurance companies and childcare centres, so that the financial risk for households is reduced. For now, we look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to our questions on the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It takes some getting used to, "sir." The VVD is there for all Dutch who make a positive contribution to our country, who turn to another, work if they can and want to make something of it. Who raise their children neatly, commit to their surroundings and assist when there is someone familiar who needs help. This text comes from a discussion paper by my party, Liberalism that works for people, from which the media have been happy to quote lately. This is the only quote I haven't come across. However, it fits in well with the subject we are discussing here today. One of the questions raised in this discussion paper is a question which we, as representatives of the people, will all regularly ask ourselves. Is there a particular group that is currently under more pressure than another? It is the analysis of the VVD that this is currently the case with the middle class. An analysis, and we are pleased that it is shared by the government. The government indicates that, in particular, there is a great demand for middle-income working parents and that they have suffered excessively from the crisis. The government therefore wants to give them additional support so that they too experience in personal life that things are going better with the Netherlands. Where income policies in recent years have focused mainly on supporting the lowest incomes, it is precisely in this way that we are choosing to continue to support middle incomes. This bill proposes to use the child-related budget instrument by increasing the income-dependent reduction of the child-related budget for couples. In our written input, we have already indicated that we welcome the purpose of the legislative proposal, but we still have a number of questions concerning its effectiveness and implementation. The increase applies only to couples because single people, including those with middle incomes, already receive a higher child-related budget. Mr. Chairman. Reading this, I thought it was nice that this is now being levelled, because the cost of a child in a single-parent family is equal to that of a two-parent family, with the exception perhaps of childcare costs. However, the difference between couples and single parents is still significant, to the detriment of couples, even after increasing the child-related budget. I've just made one of those test calculations on the IRS website. That's pretty convenient, I can tell you. This shows that the single parent with two children and an income of €40,000 per year receives approximately €4,200 per year child-related budget. For a couple with two children, with a combined income of €40,000, the child-related budget will soon be around €2,100 per year. The difference in family income is €2,000; under the current legislation this is still €3,000, to the detriment of the family with two parents and two children, while this family also consists of an extra person for those to be provided for. With such differences, it is therefore not surprising that couples with children have fallen further behind. In response to questions from my group about this imbalance in the child schemes, the Secretary of State refers in the reply to an investigation into the possibilities of re-allocation of available funds within the child schemes. The VVD also asks the Secretary of State to make it clear in this study what the difference is between the costs of childcare between single parent families and couples. We can imagine that a single working parent has lost more money on this, although in couples working hours may also coincide and the difference in childcare costs may be less than expected. Can the Secretary of State also undertake to inform the First Chamber of the results of the relocation investigation? My group also asks whether it is not reasonable to take account of the number of people per household. In the example I have just given, the disposable income per child in a family with two adults and two children is less than in the same family income to be divided between two children and one adult. Mr. Chairman. During the discussion of the bill on the other side, much attention was paid to the omission that emerged during the legislative preparation, namely that the non-use of the child-related budget is due to a design error in the tax authorities' systems. Many right holders have not been granted what they were entitled to. That is acidic because we are talking about means to support the growth of children. The error will now be corrected retroactively from 2013. Restoring the identified shortcomings in the tax administration system will automatically entitle more people to the child-related budget and hopefully reduce non-use. The legislative proposal foresees that the resulting additional costs will be covered by a one-off no indexation of the child-related budget by 2020. However, the Secretary of State informed us yesterday that non-indexation of the child-related budget has negative purchasing power effects on a number of households, and that the Cabinet has decided to index. The Secretary of State has announced that he will present a novelle to this effect. In itself, we expect this novelle to take a lot of cold out of the sky. Can the Secretary of State indicate why everything comes to light at such a late stage? Surely it could not have been surprising that non-indexing has adverse purchasing power effects? We understand, however, that the Secretary of State wishes to make progress on the legislative proposal and support her efforts to increase the child-related budget for couples by 1 January next. I understand procedurally that it is not a novelty to deal with legislative proposals here and put them to the vote at an announced novelle. I ask the Secretary of State what is necessary procedurally to ensure that the bill can enter into force as from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u5	The problem is, of course, that we do not have an official procedure around a novelle, because it is a thing that does not exist but is regulated as a solution through life. As far as I can see, in the past sixteen years, it's still the main rule that if you want to amend a bill at the request of this Chamber or on the basis of your own progressive insight, you'll first submit the proposal to the House of Representatives. He then agrees with that. Then it comes here and then the bill plus the novelle gets approved. This happens for the simple reason that the Secretary of State can of course never guarantee that the House of Representatives will approve a novelle. It is customary to do so, but the guarantee is not there. Wouldn't it be better if we just chose the royal road, especially since it's a lot of mess with this law and to make up for mistakes? The Secretary of State ensures that the House of Representatives gets a novelle; it can be approved at the beginning of September and then we deal with it here in our first or second meeting. Why should we deviate from the normal procedure after this poor progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u6	I understand Mr. Kox's question. It is indeed the royal way to do it, but therefore my question to the Secretary of State, because I do not want it to be able to enter into the legislative proposal by 1 January. So I would like to know from her and also from our chairman later on what is procedurally necessary to ensure that the legislative proposal can enter into force at least by 1 January. If there are any obstacles, I would like to hear them and then I will come back to them in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u7	I am glad to hear that, because, of course, this bill will have to come into effect on 1 January, with indexation, but I think the Secretary of State will explain to us that it will not be a problem if we do so in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mrs. De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u9	My time has passed during the interruption, Mr. Chairman. So if you'll just press the buttons for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u10	Apologies. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u11	Good. The fact that the said omission in the Tax Administration has come to light as an accidental by-catch in the legislative process cannot be attributed to this Secretary of State, but it is, of course, a relatively simple implementation process, which has gone completely wrong. At the time of the initial examination of the legislative proposal, it was indicated that implementation was relatively simple. By letter of 4 July we were informed about the latest state of the recovery operation and the adjustments of the implementation process at the Tax Administration. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State to what extent she is now confident that the recovery operation and the allocation of the child-related budget will continue to go smoothly. We see that no less than 100 extra FTEs are planned for this. Is it right that we should deduce from this that the implementation is more complex than we are told on paper? And 100 FTE's extra bet doesn't guarantee that there is a good execution. My group has already expressed its concerns about the surcharge system and whether the Tax Administration is adequately equipped for this task. We will continue this discussion at another time with Secretary of State Snel. As far as this State Secretary is concerned, there is a single question that could potentially benefit a careful implementation process in relation to the child-related budget. I'll finish with that. Because of the lack of up-to-date data on the new group of parents, the Secretary of State tells these parents to contact them by means of a personal letter. They shall be informed of a possible right. We support this approach, but as far as we understand it, it is a one-off action in relation to the legislative amendment. Do we understand this correctly? If the answer is yes, we would ask that this action be repeated every year. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? It should nevertheless be possible to actively inform every family every year of which, on the basis of the available data, the right to the child-related budget can be assumed. This gives the service additional control over the proper application of the law and further restricts non-use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. The reference to Secretary of State Snel is going a little too fast for me, because the Secretary of State with whom we are speaking today is responsible for the wide-ranging debt problem, the child-related budget, and the Childcare Act, so I would like to hear how the senator looks at the role of the Secretary of State in addressing the issues we have both addressed in our input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mrs Sent presented an integral agenda in her speech. I broadly agree with that, but as we judge it, it has gone wrong in the technical implementation of the Tax Department's surcharges. So it lies mainly with that service and that is why we need to address our questions to Secretary of State Snel. He's not here today, so we can't do that. We'd like to do that at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u14	It is not just about the feasibility from the point of view of the Tax Administration. What is also very important, especially from the point of view of the Secretary of State's portfolio, is the perspective of the citizen, the limited capacity and the way in which the child-related budget and the Childcare Act contribute to the debt problem among a large proportion of households. I would very much like to hear from Senator De Bruijn how she looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u15	One of the things I just suggested is: stay actively informed and not just because a law changes. Stay actively informed. Based on the data, you can assume that someone is entitled to it, but didn't request it. So you can continue to actively inform. At the moment, I am not ready to go to a whole system review by bringing all the funds that are now being provided for supplements directly to the authorities. That's what Mrs Sent was talking about, but that's not what we're into. I would like to make a reservation in that regard, because I would actually like to see how we can optimise this. In the background there is also the question whether the Tax Administration is the appropriate service to implement a surcharge system. We still have questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mrs. Sent, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u17	Sure. The WRR's report shows precisely that information is not enough, that knowing is not enough, and that you have to design the system from a realistic citizen perspective. That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u18	In any case, the system is now being designed in such a way that the automatic allocation is simply going to run, as the legislative proposal originally intended. This should in fact prevent a great deal of non-use, but it should be supplemented by reference to people who are not yet included in the automatic allocation, on the basis of data showing that they may be entitled to the child-related budget. That's an extra layer on it. However, I do not have the illusion that we will catch 100%. That is why it is good to look at this more comprehensively, but I do not think that this issue should already be presented in the context of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a bill before us that serves a sympathetic and good cause, namely to make more people eligible for the child-related budget. We can wholeheartedly support that. Mrs Sent has spoken eloquently about dealing with debt issues in a broader context. I'd like to go along with that. So we could soon be done, if there is not a single thorny point. From the most difficult point, or indeed one of the two points, the sting was pulled out by yesterday's letter from the Secretary of State. It is about the extremely curious proposal, in our view, to finance the post-payment that people were entitled to by stopping the indexation for everyone. We thought that was a curious proposal, and so did the Secretary of State himself. As far as we're concerned, it's better to be halfway than completely lost. We welcome last night's letter and assume that it will soon be incorporated into the legislation. I didn't interfere with the technique. Mr. Kox was just interrupting at that point. Whether we can vote on it or in September, I personally do not care so much. As long as it's settled and if it only starts on January 1st, I'm a happy man. There is one other point I have not yet heard about, and that is the consequences of the return. A significant group of people are now getting a considerable amount of money back. Scattered over the years, they were entitled to it. These are often people who also receive a different allowance or benefit. This other supplement or benefit also generally includes a power test. I see that because people suddenly get an amount in their bank account, they with their ability exceed the capacity to pay the other benefits or supplements. It seems to me impossible that these people could then face a reduced right or a reduction in or a refund of another supplement or benefit because the government will fix its own mistake in this way. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State in the first place that she will ensure that people do not get in trouble and therefore do not face refunds or discounts on other benefits or supplements subject to a capital test. If she can make a commitment about it, we are of course happy with it. If it does not make a commitment, then we will return to it in the second term and we must consider whether we should not ask the Chamber to give a ruling on this. I have remained well within my speaking time. The Secretary of State made that possible with her letter from yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u22	You want me to push a button now? Oh, I don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u23	That's what I do when I think about it. Because there is still some time left, one more question to Mr Van Gurp. Can he explain what contributions and benefits are involved in these parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u24	I hope to be able to do that without doing it in extenso. In any case, people receiving welfare benefits are subject to a capital test. I think this also applies to the rent allowance and the care allowance. There's an income test and a power test. I understand the income test isn't a problem. That doesn't count for the post-payment, but it does for the power test. Those are low-income people who are in an extremely curious way affected via the band by something they don't share any part of. I don't think that's what this is supposed to be. I therefore expect a commitment from the Secretary of State. Otherwise, I expect broad support in the Chamber to look at this in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u25	I share Mr Van Gurp's expectation. Thank you for this contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union and also on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I can indeed express this text on behalf of the SGP. This bill is part of the additional resources that the government agreement makes available for child schemes. This involves an additional €250 million per year for the childcare allowance, €250 million for the increase in family allowances and €half a billion for the child-related budget for couples. These are certainly not childish amounts added up: around 1 billion structuralally. It is good for the Christian Union and SGP groups that this cabinet is investing heavily in families, many of which have experienced the consequences of the economic crisis, and that is certainly true for the middle class. That is also the political frame of this bill: giving extra financial wind in the sails of working middle-income parents by increasing the child-related budget for very ordinary families with very ordinary incomes. This support in the back of families at a time when our country is getting better is at the heart of both our groups. It's been tough years, and they've been asked a lot. The financial pressure on families during the crisis years was high and now is the time to offer them relief. At the heart of the present legislative proposal is that the threshold on which income-related reduction of the child-related budget begins for couples is increased by almost €17,000. That is a substantial increase. The winding curve is much less steep. The explanatory statement tells us that by 2020 the increase in that cut-off limit will give about 320,000 pairs a right to a higher child-related budget of about €1,000 per year and receive nearly 300,000 pairs by the reverse of that border for the first or again child-related budget, with an average of around €600 per year. More than a third of families with children are in their wallet brands and more than three quarters of middle incomes see a positive effect on income. This also applies to 60% of the single-earners. Those are good grades. The distribution of income effects shows that, in line with the objective of the legislative proposal, the largest effect of the scheme is visible in the group from one to one and a half times modal. After all, the commitment is to help families with middle incomes. Overall, the proposal generates positive and serious income effects for the group of households for which the raising of threshold income is intended. The groups of the Christian Union and the SGP are pleased about this. The Council of State also welcomes the bill and has no comments on it. We also note with satisfaction that the bill has as a nice bycatch that reduces the marginal pressure in the income path to minimum wage to modality. This is well in line with the broad Christian Union motion adopted in this House on reducing the extremes in the marginal pressure in income policy and the SGP motion on marginal pressure in our tax system. But our warm feelings for the bill were strongly tempered by the letter of late January in which the Secretary of State and her colleague, Snel van Financiën, informed us that there was a draft error in the Tax Administration regarding the granting of the child-related budget. Right holders were not automatically granted if they again fulfilled the conditions after previous discontinuation. This concerns a large group of women Ms Sent pointed out that some 60,000 parents a year have received child-related funding since 2012. Over the period 2008-2019, it is estimated that between 300,000 and 400,000 unique parents were not paid a child-related budget in any year. That is a large group and a serious problem. What is the situation after almost six months? The letter from the Secretary of State at the end of last week on the recovery action gives an idea, but leaves questions open. How many people have actually been helped and how many people still need help? Is the budget of 50 million sufficient to remedy the problem? How is communicating with duped families? Mr De Bruijn already mentioned this. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that this delicate problem will be resolved quickly and properly? It hurts that the recovery work cannot go back beyond 2013, while the right to child-related budget already exists from 2008. If 2013 is still the lower limit, I ask the Secretary of State. By the way, have proceedings also been initiated by stakeholders against the government and, if so, how many? Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that the Secretary of State for Finance is not present at this debate. Because the implementation problems are mainly on his plate. He was present at the debate in the Lower House. What measures have been taken to prevent the problems which have arisen from reappearing? What safety procedures are in place to prevent repetition? The Tax Administration, as we read, gives its approval to the present bill in terms of feasibility and enforcement. But can the Secretary of State confirm that the implementation systems are now in order? But perhaps there is also a deeper and more politically charged cause that the Tax Administration cannot handle it regularly in the social domain. The problems with the childcare allowance, which were discussed in the Lower House at the end of last week, also bear witness to this. We know in the Netherlands a complex patchwork of surcharges and sometimes incomprehensible shackles of regulations in the social affairs and employment policy area, which can only raise complex problems in implementation. I would like to challenge the Secretary of State to reflect briefly on this. Should we not make a comprehensive simplification impact on its policy area? Isn't the state's position as the guardian of public affairs not at stake if we cannot properly implement essential policies to help vulnerable groups? The groups of the Christian Union and the SGP want to ask the Secretary of State to present an exploratory vision document, in which she sheds light on this pressing issue of complex supplements and complex arrangements. Can she promise that to both our groups? We will also be happy to discuss this view with her here in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u29	I think it is an interesting proposal from Mr Ester to ask the Secretary of State for a vision document. Indeed, the feasibility from the point of view of the Tax Administration is an important point of attention. But do you also consider it important to see the perspective of the citizen addressed in such a vision document, in other words to consider not only the feasibility for the Tax Administration, but also the feasibility and capacity of the citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you for this question. I think it's a very good question. I would like to go along with it to ask the Secretary of State to include that perspective, within that context of complexity. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u31	I also support Mr Ester's request for a more fundamental look at the problems of implementation. He focuses on the Tax Administration, but we see in the implementation of many regulations that both the Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Bank have a role to play, and often also the UWV. For example, in many child schemes, they need to work together. Can you broaden the scope of this fundamental question about implementation problems to Social Insurance Bank and UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u32	I think that too is a very sensible contribution. I flew it the way I flew it because now the Tax Administration is a little less euphemistically speaking. But if we can stretch it to disconciling the other two services, I think that's fine. I should also like to stress that we are not expecting a huge document from the Secretary of State, but simply a brief, clear and powerful analysis, in which she sheds light on this issue. We would appreciate that very much. Now I believe I have four parties to support that. The coverage solution initially chosen by the cabinet for the recovery operation was to one time not index the child-related budget in 2020. In our view, this was not a good solution, especially with regard to purchasing power effects for sole earners and low-income families. Our two groups were very pleased to hear yesterday afternoon that alternative cover is being sought. This is a one-time indexing of the card. Hail for that. These families have been hit during the economic crisis, and the increase in the child-related budget is good news for these families. The cabinet invests heavily. The painful mistake, made in the earlier implementation of the child-related budget, is a damper on the joy. That goes, I think, for all of us here in the Chamber. We must be prepared to implement this bill, which provides financial relief to the middle class, properly and without any difficulties. All this does not affect the joyful fact that middle-income families are given more financial resources. That's very much what they've been awarded. Our groups look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mr Kox has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. The advantage of a smaller fraction is that you can just stand much more here. Every disadvantage has its advantage, and vice versa. But, of course, we didn't have to stand here. It's a bit like Roel van Gurp said: everyone is satisfied about this bill, as it's about agreed government policy that nobody can be surprised about, so just approve. And yet we are having a debate about it. We don't talk about the content of the law, because we agree on that. But in its wisdom, the government has decided to use this bill to get rid of some dirt. That dirt was that the tax authorities had gone wrong for the umpteenth time and had withheld hundreds of thousands of people money to which they were entitled. Of course, it is a credit to the Secretary of State for saying that this mistake must be corrected, because you must give people what they are entitled to. When I listened to Mrs De Bruijn, I understand that it fits very well in the liberal view that people who mean well just get what they are entitled to. These people were denied that right. Nice to fix that, but the way and the way that happens are weird. First of all, how that happens. If you make a mistake as a government, you have to fix it. You do that in the spirit of how it should have been. In this case, it is quite clear: there should have been more money released, then people would have been given that money. Then the Minister of Finance solves that, after which it is all good. But here a strange variant was chosen: we have given people, usually with a slightly higher than low income too little, we give them that money that we take away from people with a lower income. Every citizen understands that that's not true at all. You can't do that at all, because that's the unfairest solution. My group colleague Peter Kwint said the same across the street. He did reap some surprise after all. Then how are we supposed to fix it, was asked. His answer was: at least not like this. You can't rightly give people with a little more money and then take away people who have no part in it. Yet that happened, in a very ingenious way. Creative accounting is awesome, isn't it? If the indexation is not carried out in the first year, Articles 3 and 5 shall be introduced and it shall be ready. The government isn't supposed to act like this. Last week we had a debate on this: the government should have acted properly and here a decent solution should have been found. Nor is it the case that this was discovered at the very last moment. No, the debate in the Lower House was certainly not about this bill. There, too, everyone agreed, but it was about whether or not this could be done. Can you fix one mistake by making another mistake? It's not like we've all been sleeping together. No, the Labour Party, GroenLinks, the Animal Party and the SP said that you just can't do this, that you can't put the bill where it doesn't belong. So there's something else to think about. But all the other groups said: we can't think of anything else. Mr Peters of the CDA said across the street: they are all ugly solutions, but this is still the least ugly. When I read that, I thought: that's pretty well said for someone from Oss, but it doesn't make any sense. An ugly solution is an ugly solution. The Secretary of State has also gone along with this. That's why I'm asking her how you can have some kind of tunnel vision and choose a solution that you know you can't actually choose. I am concerned that this can be done and that such a large majority of the House of Representatives, weighing everything up, can still agree to it. I am, of course, very pleased that the Secretary of State has reached the conclusion at the eleventh hour that it is not possible and that we must do something about it. I find the argument that it has purchasing power effects a little weird, because that's already in the pieces. That was already in the papers in the Lower House. That can't be a surprise. It's better to go halfway than to go all the way; so did Roel van Gurp. There's nothing wrong with that. Mistakes are made when you work, and then you have to fix them. But I do worry, first of all, because this is possible, that in a ministry they can think so about correcting mistakes, about the backs of others. Secondly, I am concerned because the majority of the House of Representatives, because it cannot find another solution, says: well, let's do it anyway, although we shouldn't. And third, I'm worried because it's been so long before it's fixed. Each Member of Parliament is of course happy and slightly proud when a novelle is announced here. When I came here, nobody was supposed to say that, because none of that existed. But it happens and I'm happy about it. Everyone is happy that it is happening, but it is strange that it has to be at the very last moment. Then there's one final comment. I don't understand exactly how we're gonna finish this. I had a little debate on it with my colleague De Bruijn. Anything that's become such a mess, unnecessary in my opinion, must at least be neatly resolved. And then here we have the agreement that that can be restored. The government will fix that. He says to the House of Representatives: we made a mistake; would you please approve this? It will then be submitted to the First Chamber and then it will be ready. Then it can be handled there. For those who don't believe me: I read this on the great site parliament.com, on which all sorts of things are explained. Well, here's the thing. That's how we do it. Of course, you can think of an exception to every rule, but especially in the case of a bill that has already gone so weird, I don't think we should do that. My proposal is therefore that the Secretary of State should submit a proposal to the House of Representatives. That doesn't have to be very complicated. It says: 'Ladies and gentlemen, we must let go of the indexation that you had deleted. Do you agree? There. Greetings." Then it can be approved and then it can be dealt with here in the first, second or third week of September. And because everyone will be happy with this bill.... no rights will be taken, as we did last week with the AOW change................................................................................................................................................................................ I also think it should be done this way, because if we really look seriously now, we can see that the House of Representatives willingly and knowingly has said yes to something that the Secretary of State and this Chamber say: we should not have done so. There's no guarantee that the House of Representatives will say yes. I dare to bet something that she says so, because there too everyone will be happy with the solution found, but we should do it this way. This is the royal road, I say with respect for the man who is behind you, chairman, and we must follow it. Then there's one final point. This isn't a coincidence. The IRS is screwing up on the assembly line. I read in a report that the Secretary of State for Taxation said: you shouldn't say that; we are doing our best. Sure, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs is doing his best and all the people who work there are doing their best to do it right, but things are going wrong. My modest analysis is that it went wrong when we started turning a tax collection service into a tax distribution service. That was when we had the rent subsidy and the care allowance and all the other supplements paid out by the Tax Administration: well, if you get the money as a Tax Administration, then you can pay it out. I still hear Secretary of State Hoogervorst explaining to me how silly I was that I didn't understand how that could work. I guess I wasn't so silly after all, and it was a mistake. We need to investigate that, because these mistakes will continue to be made. Not because someone wants to, but because the Ministry isn't fit for it. The Ministry that collects money is not fit to distribute money; that seems to be the case. Mrs Sent has already mentioned a number of proposals that are being made to improve all this. If the House of Representatives is unable, unwilling or unwilling to investigate this, I think that this Chamber should say: we should investigate how this very important part of our work, raising money and distributing money can go wrong time and time again. Because if you read again today what Trouw writes and what Pieter Klein writes on the RTL-site, you'll get a bit quiet about that, you know. If our media is going to say that things are getting so crazy, then something has to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u35	I have one short question for Mr Kox. He's rightly considering the question of who's handing out money. Does he also consider it important to think about who the money is paid out to? In other words, is it wiser to pay it to families or is it wiser to pay it to childcare centres? Does Mr Kox think that this is an important dimension to consider?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u36	If we don't investigate that, Mrs Sent, so if we don't take this up, it's just gonna get worse. This has become such a superministry that it's getting out of hand, because it's gotten too big. We have another one, but we're not talking about it today. The scale is too large and the thing does something it's not equipped for. I think you should take a look at everything, because it went wrong. Look, the rent subsidy was given to tenants by people who knew about it. The same applies to other supplements. Now a money machine collects money and distributes money. I found it so painful to read that it was a structural error or something. That simply means that the computer has said "you have no right to it" when you are entitled to it. That's not a structural error. That's insane. It's Orwell who determines whether or not a machine gets money. So I think we should get a good look at what we really want with the surcharges. Where do we want the money to end up? What purpose do we want to achieve with it? I'm gonna say it again, Mr. Chairman. If the House of Representatives is not in a position to investigate this, this Chamber, which has to check whether the policy is indeed working and unpacking as it is intended, should take that on hand, after the first investigation it has ever done thanks to colleague Kuiper and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Kox. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Oomen on behalf of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u38	I am just saying to Mr Kox: it was an omission in the structure, not a system error. Mr. Chairman. The measures proposed by this law to adjust the income-related allowance for low and middle incomes can count on the warm support of the CDA Group. In the political and financial considerations in recent years, we have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to partnerships with children. In addition, it has always been pointed out that middle income with children who often lack supplements is therefore a net disposable income for their cohabitation with the children. These families need our support. The law now increases the child-related budget for two-parent families. I would like to say that, even after this legislative proposal, two-parent families receive less child-related budget than single-parent families. Mrs De Bruijn has already noted this. In the coalition agreement, the long-cherished wish of the CDA has now been met. Mr Ester says the same thing. An additional €1 billion per year will be deployed: €250 million for childcare, €500 million for this law and €250 million for child support, with each child getting €88 per year. Today's proposal means that around 320,000 couples are entitled to an average supplement of €975 per year, with 290,000 couples entitled to an additional charge of about €600 per couple per year due to the proposed increase. With a family income of €40,000, a single parent family receives about €4,000, Mrs De Bruijn also said so, at least, she said €4,200, and a two-parent family €2,200. By the way, the €2,200 was also €1,000 less at first. This means that there is still a difference of €2,000. The CDA Group wonders why this has not been levelled. Are there any plans to do so? Mr. Chairman. My group would normally say in dealing with such a bill: count your blessings, get started with information and implementation and hammer the draft law approving. But with this law, it's not that simple. In the course of the plenary session in the House of Representatives, but still today, in the letter to our Chamber of 4 July, we were confronted with a very harsh reality: the mistakes made in the Supplements Service. The law states that people normally receive a child-related supplement when they already have a rent supplement or another supplement, but that has not happened in the past. Due to a system error, these surcharges were not paid to people who would be entitled to them. But there is a solution: the money will be paid retroactively from 2013. You have said that it is a matter of technique, but can you clarify why this retroactive effect was not given until 2008? Mr Ester has already asked for this. Questions have also been asked about the income and capital test at the time of payment. The income test is controlled, but the power test isn't. Can you clarify why you didn't? Mr. Chairman. In the letter sent by the government to the House of Representatives on 19 June, we read that the total amount to be paid is between 375 and 445 million euros. In the exchange of letters, you now have an amount of 420 million. The Secretary of State for Finance has set up a temporary project organisation to make the project run smoothly. The question is whether it will succeed. Yesterday, Members Omtzigt and Peters of the House of Representatives also asked you questions about this. Would you like to comment on the problems that could arise in Mr Kox's jargon? Mr. Chairman. When I look at the government's letters on the correction of the system errors, the retroactive payments, the finding of the legitimate interested party and the condition that the post-payment has no consequences for paid or paid out. I think it's good that this project organization is here. But I have my doubts as to whether things are going to turn out as smoothly as you think. You should be aware that the trust is damaged. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. So you're sure you're okay? Do you have sufficient consultation with the Secretary of State for Finance? Would you also like to inform this Chamber about the implementation of the project? Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House and here too, there has been extensive talk about the failure of the Supplements Service. I don't want to repeat that. Today we read in a main article in Trouw that the childcare allowance is not working smoothly. Like several colleagues, I would like to ask the government if it can go into more detail on the feasibility in technical terms of so many more and more sophisticated income-dependent schemes. I ask that question not only to the government, but also to the parliament, because that often makes those rules. Are you sure you can get control of all these arrangements? What do we learn from the mistakes? How are we going to ensure that they no longer occur in the future? In fact, of all the wide-ranging allowances, it should be examined how best to ensure that they reach the citizen in the most simple way possible. Mr. Chairman. A lot has also been said about the costs of the post-payment in the Lower House. These costs should be covered by the scheme. There was a lot of criticism about that, even today. The budgetary rules are such that a hole in a scheme must be covered in the same scheme. That is not a new rule, I would like to say to Mrs Sent. This has always been so. However, the solution that was devised was also very difficult for the CDA. The Peters motion has been adopted to see if one-time non-indexing is good for collecting the after payments. Here too, the CDA Group says that the strongest should bear the heavy burden. The question would have been what, partly on the basis of the Peters motion, we are going to do with the income effects for those parents who can bear that non-indexation much more difficult. That is why we have noted with satisfaction the news that was announced yesterday, which means that this indexing will normally take place in 2020. I understand that the debate has now been sparked as well whether we should adopt the law today or not. Or should we wait for that novelle? We seem to be somewhat divided about that. But I have a feeling that, if you look at the technical side of the matter, it's better to start immediately than to wait until that novelle is adopted again, with which we would only have this law in the Official Journal on October 1st. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u39	I hear Mrs. Oomen say it. At the same time, I think: why does a party in which there has always been so much state-of-the-art memory say that we should do it this way? We criticize the way a law has been used to regulate things. We have a lot of problems with it. Now you say, "Let's pass the law and then the novelle." But that's not the way we do it. Then why do we do that? Only if the Secretary of State said that we would be in the greatest possible difficulty if we did not adopt this law at the beginning of September, will there be an exceptional situation, but I think that this Chamber of Remembrance should certainly attach to the procedures as they are there. He must not say: let us depart from it. Why does the CDA do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u40	We're not doing anything, yet. We say: would it not be better to adopt this law today, so that it is in the Official Journal as soon as possible? We know that at the point of pain that you and everyone else have, we are still getting a further change to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u41	But we don't know that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u42	Yeah, but there's no policy on novelles either. If you can tell me that this has always been the mores, I believe you immediately, but I now have the feeling in a technical sense that perhaps we should do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u43	I read Mrs Oomen and all of us just for what is on the site parliament.com. Because there is no official policy, that site explains very well how parliament works. It says that this has been the way of working for years. Let's stick to that unless the Secretary of State says there's an emergency, so we have to do something else. But I'm not in favour of getting too creative when it comes to state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u44	No, but I was also talking about this emergency, about the desire to get this into the Official Journal as soon as possible in a technical sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Moonen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. The present amendment of the Child-Based Budget Act is in line with the government agreement, in which it is agreed to provide more support for middle-income people. From 2020, almost 500 million extra goes to the child-related budget. As previous speakers have said, this is part of a broader package. The government chooses to continue supporting middle-income working parents. To this end, the Secretary of State increases the income on which the reduction of the child-related budget for couples begins. The income-dependent phasing-out thus shifts considerably. According to the reply, 290,000 additional couples with children are eligible for the child-related budget by increasing the threshold income in 2020. This concerns a substantially larger group of couples with children. Especially couples with a shared income from one to one and a half times average benefit from this. Children will benefit from this. In this respect, it is a good decision, because the benefits will end up with these children. Single parents have received additional support before. They are already receiving a higher child-related budget than couples because they can claim an increase in the budget through the single parent. Mr. Chairman. In my further speech, I would like to focus on the legality, enforcement and feasibility of this bill. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the increase in the border and the extension of the target group. I come now to the feasibility. As indicated by this bill, the group eligible for the child-related budget is expanding by 290,000 couples with children. Part of this group is automatically awarded the supplement, because they are already known to the Tax Administration, department of Fees, because they already receive another supplement. But the vast majority of this group will be personally informed about the possible right to the child-related budget by means of a notice letter from the Tax Administration. They therefore do not receive the supplement automatically, for the sake of clarity. Now the Tax Administration says in the execution test that this bill is enforceable and enforceable. The Tax Administration does point out that, in order to determine which citizens are entitled to this child-related budget, they need the income data from the Basic Registration Income and the policy administration of the UWV. We've heard several reports about the UWV recently. Now the Sociale Verzekeringsbank says in its execution test that the new customer group is called customers; I didn't think of the word myself. The Social Insurance Bank itself writes in its test that they will consider with the Tax Administration how the new customer group can be portrayed, so that this group can be actively approached. The Sociale Verzekeringsbank also writes to talk to the foreign sister organisations, so that they can also inform these customers. Mr. Chairman. When the Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Bank took their performance test, if I put everything chronologically in time, the draft error of the Tax Administration was not yet known. The execution tests of the Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Bank are therefore purely about this legislative amendment that is before us today. But repairing the design error is not a small matter either. We read in the reply that this is about 60,000 unique parents per supplement year. If we look at the whole term, we are talking about about 250,000 to 300,000 unique parents who are eligible for a possible recovery. Not a light job, really! All extra work for the Tax Administration, which is not included in this execution test. Mr. Chairman. The Social Insurance Bank, the Tax Administration and the UWV have a major role to play in this implementation, but we see that these executive organisations... many colleagues have already emphasised this in their speech........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That brings me to the next question to the Secretary of State. Is it still justified for the government to continue to add new tasks to the implementing organisations by amending the legislation while new errors are being discovered in these same implementing organisations? What would the execution test have looked like today with the more recent design errors included? What is the cumulative effect of all these errors that need to be corrected by the implementing organisations, while changing policies also need to be implemented? Is there perhaps a self-expression by the implementing organisations, which always state with each test that new policies are feasible? Does the government take the problems of these implementing agencies sufficiently seriously? Mr. Chairman. I was pleased to see a policy review of Article 10 on the SZW budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mr President, may I ask Mrs Moonen a question? It's not just the government. Isn't Parliament also a little bit to blame?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u48	This question has been taken from my heart, because I think that Parliament has also added complexity in the past by means of motions and amendments from the Second and First Chambers. So it's exactly what Mrs Oomen says. We must be aware of this when we ask for further exceptions and provisions in political debates, which can also cause the complexity of the assignment. So I think this is a correct addition to Mrs Oomen. I will continue my speech. So I came across a policy review of Article 10 on the SZW budget. Article 10 deals with child schemes. I thought: that's interesting! This review was carried out in 2018 and the report dates back to June 2018. That was only a year ago, actually. On page 62 of this report Building blocks for policy screening child schemes is the following. "In a number of places it sheds in the execution." That may be an understatement, but when people use the word "sanding," there's often more to it. I would like to mention three points which are highlighted in the report. Why is it rubbing? It is stated that the Tax Administration and the SVB both use a completely different partner concept and that makes it complicated. It is then indicated that the child benefit can be split between divorced parents and the child-related budget cannot be paid. Another difference. It is also stated that the single parent is a substantial amount which must also be recovered if the Tax Administration finds that it has been unduly paid. Finally, the combination of child-related budget and living/working abroad makes the child-related budget a much less straightforward scheme to implement, much less simple than it seems. The report states that implementation has wasted a great deal of time. Because of the differences in terms and names, it is not so easy to link things up. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the next question to the Secretary of State. Following this report, have there been any proposals for simplifications in the policy review process itself? Surely that should be the aim of a policy review, that you learn from it and certainly lessons for simplification? If the answer to this question is yes, why are these simplifications not included in this legislative proposal, as far as they lead to changes to the law? It could have been taken into account in one course of work. Mr. Chairman. It is also well known that the National Ombudsman sees the complex system of supplements and income provision as one of the causes of people's financial problems. It is therefore good to read in the reply that an inter-departmental policy inquiry has been launched; in the corridors we call this an 'ibo'. It is interesting that the first sub-examination of the ibo states: we are going to examine possibilities of improvement within the current system in the short term and we are going to start this cabinet period. In this sub-research we will explore what can be good measures to facilitate citizens better. Mrs Sent has also called for this on several occasions today. However, we will also consider how we can achieve recovery and post-payments, the number and the level of such payments. A very important point, even if you look at those citizens. And it is stated that you also wanted to see more quickly what changes are in the personal circumstances of citizens. First of all, I would like to say that this seems to me to be an excellent policy research and a wonderful ambition. Hence the next question. Can the Secretary of State be more concrete when we can expect the results of the first partial study ibo? Then I would like to take the opportunity to go into more detail about the draft error of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u49	How much more time do you need, Mrs. Moonen? In fact, you are already over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u50	Oh, yeah, it's also an interesting subject. I'd say about three minutes. According to the D66 Group, it is wise for the cabinet to decide that the child-related budget should be indexed from 1 January. It is therefore a good thing that we have received a novelle on this subject. For the D66 group also did not think it fair and reasonable that the families with children who had not caused the problem would have been the victims. For families with children, it would not have mattered whether the budgetary problems had been caused by a draft error of the Tax Administration or by an underestimate of the state budget. In this sense, we were also pleased with the novella which was announced to us yesterday. My predecessor, Mr Schnabel, has also asked very critical questions about this non-indexation in this Chamber; in that sense we also have a very consistent line. Finally. My final point concerns the following. Of course, we're still dealing with that design flaw. We are going to get many new extra couples eligible for the child-related budget because we have raised the claim limit in the future. This is what my final question is about. Will the two Secretary of State keep track of the extent of non-use of claims from the date of entry into force of 1 January 2020 in order to prevent us from running into budgetary surprises again in the coming years? In the next five years, it will be possible to recover everything from the beneficiaries. Theoretically, the full budget for all extra couples can be used. Is this taken into account in the estimates and budgetary frameworks? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to being answered by the Secretary of State for my questions. In my view, this has also limited the time span.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u51	As I do not see Mr Kox jumping up, I shall put his question to Mrs Moonen. That question concerns the parliamentary use of a novelle to be adopted first by the Lower House and then put to the vote together with the bill in the Upper Chamber. Does Senator Moonen agree that this is the desired trajectory for a novelle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u52	I believe that we have a very wise College of Seniors, which is about to consider this question. It is, of course, true that the First Chamber should be very pure when it comes to state law. So in that sense, let me put it this way, I feel sympathy for the proposal that has been made to follow a royal path under state law. The other side of the matter is that implementing organisations also point out that short-term decision-making is important for them to start implementation in good time, which was also the subject of part of my speech. So those two sides are on this case. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State to answer this, precisely because these two sides are both on the medal, both the royal road on which we certainly found it a very sensible input from Mr Kox today, but also the side of implementation, which we all call attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u53	Just a few more minutes. I would like to emphasise the constitutional side, because we do not know how the novelle is going in the House of Representatives. We can only agree to a bill if that novelle is present, because we do not know how things are going in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u54	It's been noted. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u55	I listened with interest to Mrs Moonen's speech. A clear and sensible story. In my contribution, I asked the Secretary of State to come up with something of a policy vision about the complexity of the arrangements and surcharges we have made with each other, including as the First Chamber. Have we not gone a bit crazy in this and can we not make a simplification effort there? Could she agree to that request?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u56	I had just interrupted Mr Ester when he mentioned this. It does indeed seem that we are running into the limits of what the implementing organisations can handle. In this context, it would be good to consider, for once, more fundamentally, how we have actually regulated the relationship between the tax system and our supplementing system in this country. Mr Kox mentioned the turning point. The Tax Administration was a service that collected the tax, and at some point, around 2008, it became a reverse situation and went from collecting to spending. If I understand you correctly, you suggest that we take a closer look at that and write down a policy vision on it. I think that's a sensible idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u57	Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u58	I too have listened with interest to Mrs Moonen's speech. I think her arrival here is an asset to this Chamber. I am referring in particular to her comments that, even though it is said with all good intentions 'we will solve it again', the matter is again being proposed too simply on the part of the government. For example, I read about the patch-up operation which must then be carried out by 200 FTE agency workers. Yeah, if they're really good agency workers and if they all understand what's going on... So I am asking Mrs Moonen, but she has actually already answered this question in response to the interruption of Mr Ester's speech, whether we should not even go into more detail about what we are actually doing. And then I very much agree with Mrs Oomen that Parliament should also look at what it has done, because we have adopted all these laws, and I dare say that in all these laws there are at least questions to be asked as to whether it is really feasible. If we agree on this, the outcome of this debate is a little wider than the fact that we will have to decide only on the handling of the law in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I have just said, in connection with Mr Ester's interruption, that I think that the time has come for us to look a little more closely at this and to ask for a policy vision to be drawn up. I am therefore also curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u61	I will reopen the sitting and give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. Time is short, but I am delighted that I am here today in your newly elected Chamber, at least for me it is the first time that I have been a guest in the Chamber in this Chamber. I've already communicated it to the Chamber several times. I refer to last week's letter, but yesterday I also sent a letter. I would point out that we would like to take a number of further steps with the legislative proposal to index the child-related budget by 1 January next. I will go into this in detail later. I will begin with a brief introduction to why the bill is important. After that, I'll go into the performance. Of course, because this Chamber has long considered this, I also come to speak about the omission that has occurred. The Chamber also asked a number of other questions. First, something about the importance of this bill. After a number of difficult years in economic terms, we are in a better position. The economy is growing and public finances are getting in order. The cabinet considers it important that people also notice this in their own lives, including in their wallets. This applies to everyone, but also to families with children. That is why the cabinet has chosen a wide package, to further support families. We are dealing today with one element in that broad package. Other measures taken include raising the basic child benefit rate by nearly €89 per child per year, an investment of 250 million. Working parents also receive more childcare allowance. That is also 250 million. As part of the comprehensive package, the government will, with the current legislative proposal from 2020 onwards, pay almost 500 million extra to further support middle-income parent couples. In recent years, we have focused our income policy on supporting the lowest incomes, but with this proposal, the cabinet also chooses to continue to support the middle-groups working parents. The Chamber has mentioned the various amounts and target groups through various members. For the sake of time, I won't. Then I can also dwell a little longer on the questions of the Chamber. In any case, a lot of people will find out what the financial consequences will be if this law is adopted. I'm here to enforce the law. There will be no consequences for the entry into force of the legislative proposal. In practical terms, for the implementation of this bill, parents who are already receiving the child-related budget do not need to do anything extra. Parent couples who are entitled to the child-related budget as a result of the legislative proposal and who are already receiving a different supplement do not have to apply themselves, because they automatically receive the child-related budget. That's the benefit of the child-related budget. If things are going well, but we have had to fix a number of omissions....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you are entitled to the child-related budget, but you do not receive any other supplement, therefore you are not known to the Tax Administration. I have agreed with the Tax Administration that these people are actively approached to inform them about the possible right to the child-related budget. We really want everyone who's entitled to it to have it, too. I will continue to follow closely the implementation of this law. I've asked the IRS to keep me informed about this. In this context, Mrs De Bruijn asked whether a letter could not be sent every year. A letter is being sent now. Can't that be repeated? The starting point is that parents who are not already familiar with the Tax Administration should take the initiative themselves. However, for a very large group of parents they get it automatically. Because we have a new target group, a special situation is now emerging and people receive a letter. At the moment, I foresee that this is a one-off action under this bill. I have no intention of doing it structuralally. We are looking at the interdepartmental policy research on the surcharges specifically to reduce surcharges in general, including the child-related budget. I'll use the word "repress" more often this morning. The ibo will be ready by the end of the year. I would like to await the outcome of this before doing anything on an annual basis. Mrs Moonen asked whether, in the context of the implementation, I could take a broad look at the complexity. Then it's about the IRS, the UWV and the SVB. These are similar implementation organisations. Several MPs have asked for this. Indeed, we see that several performers face major problems or major challenges. That feeling also prevails in the cabinet. Soon, when we talk about the omission of the bill, we will also come to talk specifically about matters at the Tax Office. These are challenges in the field of ICT and the improvement of services to citizens and businesses. It's about being agile in a very complex time. One must be able to implement new policies. In the Cabinet, we agreed to investigate this. I expect that we will be able to come up with a problem analysis in the spring of 2020 and the corresponding scenarios to deal with it. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the original bill. Indeed, it really seemed to be a very nice story for a moment. In the coalition agreement, the intention was to spend a considerable amount on the middle incomes that have suffered severely under the crisis. It all seemed easy to incorporate into a law. But then suddenly a kink hit the fan. Several Members of Parliament have considered this. In the systems of the Tax Administration/Applications in the past it was wrongly not built into the system that parents who, after a previous termination of the right to the child-related budget again meet the conditions for automatic allocation would automatically receive this. In the Lower House, together with the Secretary of State for Finance, I indicated that we regret this. We are very much inclined to resolve this in a good way. In my letter last week, I, on behalf of my colleague in the finance department, indicated how we are going to restore that omission, both towards the past and towards the future. When it comes to the past, the Tax Administration/Applications will restore the case for the period 2013-2017 and for the current surcharges 2018 and 2019. Parents dealing with this will still receive the child-related budget due to them on the basis of their entitlement to the law over this period. Mr Ester asked about the recovery. The Tax Administration/Aanlagen has set up a temporary project organisation, regardless of the regular execution. So it has no impact on the regular execution. This makes it possible to carry out the recovery in steps. Since the supplement years of 2018 and 2019 have not yet been completed, the allocation over these years can be included in the regular process. We are going to recover the rights for 2018 in instalments from the summer at the time of their final allocation and for 2019 at the provisional allocation. This means, in concrete terms, that after the summer the first parents will receive a decision in which they see the amount of the post-payment. This amount will then be transferred to the parents as soon as possible. In 2019 and in 2020, the fees for the years 2013 to 2017 shall be fixed and granted. I expect about half of the payments related to the recovery action to be made in 2019 and the other half to be made in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u63	That is a reassuring comment from the Secretary of State, for which I am grateful. It confirms my view that the law is actually separate from that. This is an error that has been detected and is being repaired. Whether or not a law, that mistake is just fixed. That can't be a reason to say that we have to pass the law quickly and quickly, because this has to be done. I can see that, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u64	I will come back to the deadlines that apply, but this is indeed an omission from the past and it is separate from the law that we are discussing here today. But I've been asked, so I'm trying to answer that as best I can. I expect work on the project organisation to be completed by the end of 2020. I think it is important, and I can tell you that in your Chamber too, the recovery operation is as easy as possible for the citizen. That's why communication with people is an important part of this operation. This means that we develop specific personal services and communication by target groups. In doing so, we also pay attention to the possible consequences of the post-payment that people may experience, so that the possible impact of a decision on parents becomes clear at once. Ms Sent, Mr Ester and Mrs Oomen asked why there was no recovery for the whole period from 2008. That is a question that has also been raised in the House of Representatives. I indicated there that, in any case, it is clear from settled case law that the public authorities are obliged to comply with financial claims on the basis of legal certainty up to a period of five years, unless otherwise provided for or intended by law. So we are in favour of this. That is a formal legal argument, and I am the first to admit that this is, of course, a bit difficult in terms of fairness. Because the period before 2013 extends until 2008 and it's about a lot of people and it's also about a lot of money. I'm the first to admit that. At the same time, I must say that there was a real complex situation in the period before 2013. New ICT systems have been introduced and old data, old files, migrated. That makes it extremely difficult to do that. I felt, together with the Finance Member, that we could find a balance to do justice to the sense of justice, but also to the feasibility by choosing the 2013 deadline in the knowledge that somewhere is always a cut that remains a bit difficult. I'm just telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you for that honesty. Let's say there's going to be appeals or maybe even appeals to the Secretary of State to do it differently. What is the consequence of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u66	People can always go to court. That is true and we see it happening in practice. I shall, of course, take a close look at the judge's ruling. At the moment, I do think that, in addition to the legal issue, the complexity of going back in all those old stocks makes it really impossible in terms of feasibility. I think we've made a trade-off that state, but people are always free to go to court. Mr Van Gurp and others asked about the consequences of the post-payment when it comes to, for example, the capital limit and whether it has adverse effects on people on benefits. In the case of benefits, a supplement under the child-related budget is not included in the resources and income to be taken into account when calculating the benefit. In the case of assistance, a post-payment may lead to assets. A post-payment on a supplement has no effect on the review income for other supplements, so there is a difference. Supplements already granted will not be reviewed as a result of the post-payment, but after the granting of a post-payment they will count as capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u67	The Secretary of State confirms, if I listen carefully, what I was afraid of in the first term. The post-payment does not apply to the assessment income, at least in almost all cases. We understood that too, and we are pleased about that. But she also says in the last sentence before my interruption that it does count for the ability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u68	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u69	Then the situation may arise that by repairing the error that is actually aimed at ensuring that they still get the money they deserve, because it is paid in one lump sum, people are above a capital limit, so they have to pay back or receive less and therefore do not get what is due on balance. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u70	I agree with the words of the Secretary of State for Finance, who said in the House of Representatives that this is how it works. What we are doing to ensure that people can make an assessment of this is that we ask for attention in the letter that people receive. Furthermore, we do not make the post-payment around 1 January, because that is when the capital limit is set. In that sense, we take it into account, but it is true that in the laws and regulations we have, this ultimately counts for the ability. The Secretary of State for Finance has indicated that he cannot make an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr Van Gurp has a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u72	Yes, it can be very short. I would be sorry if we were to embrace each other in a cheerful way because it is all well arranged, and then it turns out that it is not very well arranged for a group of people, especially those who have other allowances and benefits and who do not have much to do with them. I hear the Secretary of State say that there is no other way. I am considering making another compelling request from the Chamber in the second term in order to arrange it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u73	I fully understand the spirit behind this request. Again, this is another theme you say: there it is. Because due to a mistake by the government, no money has been paid out, after which that money is paid out, but because of the size it may be that capital limits for other benefits are discussed. Welcome to Kafka, I'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u74	Luckily, we're not in cash register here, we're in a legislative body. I would therefore very much appreciate it if we could avoid coming to the register together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u75	Kafka, I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u76	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u77	Here's what I'm gonna say. There are currently different discussions on these types of issues. It is about the restoration within the system of an omission from the past. In addition, there is indeed a discussion about the system. 'Cause there's been a lot of talk about the surcharges. Perhaps, in response to this interruption, I can say all that I need to say. In the area of surcharges we see indeed interaction with a file like the broad debt file, with questions about after-payment of the child care allowance and whether you exceed property limits. Furthermore, the question arises whether you might be able to help certain groups of people if you transfer a supplement directly. The question at all is whether you should redistribute so much money to so many families. As Mr Kox said, we have created a pick-up machine and a hand-out machine. To these questions, which are of a different order and which concern the system, the cabinet expects the interdepartmental policy research on the surcharges to provide an answer. Within the current possibilities that I have and which the Secretary of State for Finance outlined when dealing with this law in the House of Representatives, it is not possible to change that, because in view of the large numbers that exist, you should so target certain target groups that that is simply not possible. I would very much like to carry out this recovery. We will focus our communication on groups as much as possible. In terms of payout date, we're going to take into account that we're not getting close to the date when that power limit is set. Is that maximum? No, because we still have to have that discussion, but it is within the possibilities that I have now what I can do at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u78	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u79	Yes. When it comes to the recovery operation, Mrs Oomen asks if I have any discussions with the Secretary of State for Finance. Yes, and also very regularly. I am certainly also prepared to inform the First Chamber of the progress of the recovery operation. Mrs Sent and Mrs De Bruijn asked why the choice of non-indexing is only now being made. Because if you look at it from a distance, you think January 1st doesn't seem so different from now. At that time, too, the issue was that there was a repair that would fall down on a certain group in terms of purchasing power. Mr Kox asked why he was not shaken up at the Ministry of Finance to get the money from there. Why has that been knocked down by the target groups targeted by this law? I think it is a good thing to put that in time and in the perspective of the time in which we acted at that time. Mrs Oomen put it very correctly: I manage part of the household booklet that deals with child care within the post-social affairs. If there is a deficiency or a mistake there, even if it arose in another place or I caused it myself, then I have to fix it within my own post. That was a considerable amount of money in the past. Now, with a bandwidth, we are looking at an amount of around 420 million, a very large amount, but a fair amount, because if people were entitled to it, they should still get it. This amount was again the result of the screening of the child schemes, which showed that there was a fairly high non-use of the child-related budget. In itself, that is a very strange observation when you see that this is the only supplement that the Ombudsman says: it should be, because it is automatically granted. In the light of the citizens' capacity, we would like them all to work in this way. Then you will indeed get into the budgetary rules, then you will have to make up for the omission. It is a lot of money, as has been said, but it is occasionally dealt with in the spring paper. But solving non-use means that structuralally more money was needed for the future. Then the housekeeping will look at the same post. The amount for the coming years of non-indexation was almost the same as the amount required for subsequent years. This amount, too, perhaps, is a bit of the subject of this morning's debate, which defies a bit of the sense of justice. At the moment you have an arrangement that you expect to use 100%, but which is less used, so that you return money to the big cash, after which it turns out to be more used, you have to pay for it yourself. We can also have a whole discussion about this. But the budgetary rules are the rules in which I had to act. That amount was almost the same as non-indexing for a year. Because this scheme, the adaptation of the Child-Based Budget Act, was one measure in a package of many schemes that were supported in various ways by single parents and by people at the base of income building in other areas, we still did not think it was a good measure, but it was provable as a whole. That's why I said in January: I have to solve this problem logically myself. I signed for the rules of the game and see in the overall picture that there are many more regulations, such as the Childcare Allowance Act. Parents in the lowest income groups are reimbursed 96% of childcare costs. I can see that in addition to the measures under the child-related budget. In the overall picture, I thought it could be defended. Tweede Kamer and your Chamber rightly asked about purchasing power in the written input for this bill. I have always said: we will see that in August. What's different from January? In January we could look at the overall picture and say: we do not have to turn that button before this law, because it is in its entirety beneficial. The last financial discussion in the cabinet was really very recent, and that's why you got my letter so short in advance. All this shows that there will indeed be discussion in this group. Then the button of the Children's Budget Act is one, especially if legislation is in place here, which I didn't want to leave untouched.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mrs. Moonen. May I ask Members to keep the interruptions brief? I'll give you a second term. We're running very late right now. Mrs Moonen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u81	I'll be brief. I understand these budgetary rules. At the same time, it is unfair and unreasonable that families with children are affected, because the Ministry of Finance is underestimated. That is why I deliberately asked the Secretary of State how to prevent us from standing here again next year, because the non-use of regulations is overestimated. I would like to answer that question, otherwise we will have another similar discussion in the coming years. I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u82	With the calculations that we are now making towards the future, we are taking into account increased use, because we are restoring the omission that the surcharge was not automatically granted if the scheme was no longer used. At the same time, there are other reasons why people do not want a supplement. So I can't guarantee 100% use. These are the rules of the budget that we have with each other. I therefore believe that it is my duty and duty to ensure that use is as high as possible. And for this it is especially important that this is handled in a customer-friendly way by the Tax Administration, from service and to minimize recovery and so on. This also applies to allowances other than the child-related budget, for example in the case of childcare allowances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u83	Two things I don't understand. The first is the question that has already been asked by Mrs Moonen and which has already been answered. It does not therefore need to be answered again. How can the tax authorities' fault account be deposited with low incomes and single parents? I understand it from the logic of the cabinet, but not from the logic of the citizen. The second point, on which I would like a reply from the Secretary of State, is that she writes in her letter that it is now clear that there are negative income effects of non-indexing. But those negative income effects were well known a long time ago. We have also drawn attention to this in a written round of questions. A number of senators have said 'better in half than in total error', but I think this is rather late. Surely it is very logical that certain groups should be affected if they are not indexed? That will not be known on the day before we have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u84	First, the first point, the deposit of the account only at low incomes and single parents. We chose in January to cover future expenditure by one-off non-indexation. This would have been noticeable for anyone using the child-related budget. However, the distribution of resources has brought this down more to the low incomes and to single parents. In the overall picture of regulations, this was then justifiable. That is also the basis for the answer I would like to give to the second question. At the time we looked at this scheme in the overall picture and it seemed to show a balanced picture. Indeed, very recently, on the basis of the most recent macroeconomic insights discussed in the cabinet, it has been pointed out that there was less balance than we thought in January. Then you have a button you're talking about in the First Chamber, and if you don't use that button at the time, that's too bad. Then that's just a really missed opportunity. I would also like to say quite frankly that if we had planned this debate here last week, I would have defended the proposal from January. It was then my current understanding that that was a balanced package. And if we had dealt with this law in the first week of September, we would probably have indexed it already, because we found out in the August decision-making that there was no balanced package. However, with the knowledge I have gained so recently, I could not have had this debate without informing your Chamber of it. It really plays a role in determining this. That's why I sent the letter so late. It has really been a matter of days, if not hours, that that knowledge has reached me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u85	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u86	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have already dealt with a number of questions in interruptions, or else I would like to hear them from you. The VVD had asked for the difference in childcare costs between single parent families and couples' families to be considered when investigating single parents and reallocating available funds within the child schemes. I will. The research is a follow-up to the policy screening of child schemes. In it we found out these great differences, which are not always consistent with the image that exists and with results from other studies. That is why we have announced a follow-up study to monitor these two arrangements. There is indeed also a theme of how many people there are in a household. The VVD also called attention to that. Partly the size of the household is already taken into account, for example the number of children. Among other things, the child-related budget depends on that. Furthermore, however, it is true that a single parent gets a head that means that much more is received than a parent couple with the same household income. This bill doesn't take away that difference, but makes it smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u87	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. Does the research also address the question of where the big difference between single-parent families and two-parent families is? Again, it is €2,000 per year in the example I used. That's a hell of a lot of money. I know this difference from the past is due to the single parent's head and the motivation to work as a single parent. I know the history, but is such a big difference still fair? Is this included in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u88	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u89	In addition to Mrs De Bruijn's comment, I would ask you whether you are prepared to eliminate that difference. Would you like to investigate that with the aim of aligning it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u90	It's hard to say that at once. It starts with looking for what the difference is. Then you're gonna have to tell me if that difference is necessary. Those questions have just been asked by the Chamber. If there's an explanation, there's an explanation. If there isn't one, we should look at it. It starts with investigating the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mrs. Oomen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u92	The difference is there. Mrs De Bruijn mentioned €2,000 difference between single parents and two-parent families. Are you prepared to eliminate that difference in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u93	In recent years, for several political reasons, income between groups has differed. Single parents in the assistance are approached differently from other groups. So I can't just say that I'm going to eliminate all the differences. An important step is to find out where the differences are. At the same time also applies here: you have to look at the total picture. For example, the screening of the child scheme shows that for certain items 165% of the costs are calculated. Then it is indeed the question whether you should just reduce such a post to 100%, because here too you have to look at the total picture. If, for example, there is a shortage in other posts, it may well be helpful. I can't just say yes to this. I'll just say that we didn't start a follow-up investigation for nothing. However, there have also been many political considerations to approach certain groups differently, as in this legislative proposal. It is precisely because they had been left behind in previous years that they were focused on single-earners. On the contrary, this bill offers an additional opportunity for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u94	How much time do you think you need, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u95	I'm almost at the end. I would like to refer almost all the questions on the broader picture to the interdepartmental policy research on the surcharges, although the temptation to deal with them now is great. These are the questions about debt issues, the relationship of supplements to the capacity of citizens and the major implementation problems. This policy investigation comes at the end of the year. Of course, that is also being sent cordially to the First Chamber. It also focuses on the citizen's perspective, and I might be able to say something to reassure him. I think these discussions are really in place there. For the sake of time, I will try to limit myself to that point today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u97	As the Secretary of State said, if we had dealt with this bill in September, it would have been including indexation. I deduce from that that we can follow the royal road: treat the novelle here together with the bill in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u98	It's up to your Chamber, of course, Mr. Chairman. The decisions are taken here. I made the suggestion of a novelle for the following reason. It is important, however, that on 1 September next the amount of 500 million is put into the systems by the Tax Administration. The indexing can indeed be carried out on 15 October. The IRS needs to know on 1 September if it can continue. I thought I should make the suggestion of a novelle because the pressing point was the indexation, also in the House of Representatives. I have now indicated in a letter and also here orally that I am going to index. I would have a hard time having a debate with your Chamber if I came back with the announcement that I wouldn't do it anyway. Then I really have a problem. But of course it's up to your room what you like more. As soon as you say: first we want the Lower House and then the Upper House, I would like to have the feeling that on 1 September the Tax Administration can set in motion the 500 million. It would be the best thing for the Tax Administration, even for their background, if the law had been voted on, but it is up to the Court to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u99	I'd love to do something nice for the IRS, but in this case, you could say, "Who burns the buttocks should be on the blisters." The way is, I say to the Secretary of State, First and Second Chambers. She needs to fix that. That sounds like a piece of cake to me in this case. That is good, but we have to do it in such a way that there will be a novella along with the bill, and we should not turn that around, because then it will be a legislative change afterwards. I think this Chamber can reasonably guarantee that this can happen here in the event of a hammer blow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u100	The latter would be very nice anyway, but that's not up to me. I do believe I have read on the website of the First Chamber that the First Chamber may also accept the bill to be amended with the undertaking that adaptation may take place later by means of a novelle. That's why I offered it. I thought that this was a proper procedure, but if your Chamber decides otherwise, I would be glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u101	I'm in a bit of a dilemma right now. I understand the Secretary of State says that the tax authorities must know before 1 September whether the 500 million should be deployed. That's part of this bill. I think it's a little weird that we're gonna say, okay, we're gonna agree, but we're not gonna take a bill. I also checked the website Mr. Kox refers to. It says that a novelle is filed when a bill is pending in the First Chamber. Well, that's true right now. So that's what happened. Furthermore, it says on that website that a novelle then follows the normal path of Lower House/First Chamber. But it is not in that story that I really do not explain; I have also looked at it that this means that we cannot adopt a law that we know will be another novelle. Historically, it happened a few times. So I wouldn't have any problem putting the bill to the vote. Otherwise we are in a very weird gap that you want to be sure before September 1st, we are going after today with recess; the House of Representatives is also with recess and we have to say yes to the 500 million. I think that's a rather curious construction too. So I would argue that we just put the bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u102	I agree, Mr President. I think it is important, especially for the families we are talking about, including many vulnerable families, that we should very quickly clarify a not small sum of half a billion added up. But don't let that be my question. My question is very brief. You responded to my request for that policy note. You say, "Wait a minute; that ibo report is coming." I would like to wait for that, but I would like to respond to that report, which also makes a very clear reference to what has come out of this wide-ranging debate, namely whether the system has not become too complex, whether we have not created an irrefutable blur when we look at the surcharges and regulation and whether it can be done from a citizen's perspective. If you would like to commit these things and include them in the response, I would be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u103	I think the Chamber can face a broad cabinet response. I would just like to draw attention to those parts of my portfolio which deal with issues relating to supplements. Is it rewarding, for example, for someone on welfare benefits to go to work? How should a person with a disability recover surcharges? I would like to draw attention to poverty policy and debt policy. So I'm the only one who's been through it. We are anxiously looking forward to the arrival of the ibo report. In any case, we are going to respond from SZW. Colleagues do that from their point of view. In doing so, the Chamber is given an integral cabinet-juice rating in all areas. I think this subject deserves that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u104	Did that bring you to the end of your term, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u106	Thank you. Then I shall move on to the second term of office. I would ask Members to keep the contributions a little limited where possible in view of the time. Mr Kox wishes to make an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u107	Mr President, I have just seen on the website of the First Chamber that a novelle is generally offered here along with the bill. That means that I would like to make an order proposal to hold votes on this bill until the time when the House of Representatives approved the novella. I think we can do that at the beginning of September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I propose that we discuss that order proposal at the College of Seniors and if necessary vote on it at the beginning of the afternoon meeting. Are you okay with that? Then we move on to the second term of the Chamber. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her clear answers to our questions. We are pleased with her announced novelle. This is in parliamentary use a bill amending a bill that is still pending before the Upper Chamber, so it has not been accepted by the Upper Chamber. This will be dealt with by the Upper House at the same time as the original bill. We therefore support Mr Kox's procedural proposal. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to walk by the answers and commitments of the Secretary of State. Firstly, we have drawn attention to the timing of the letter. We agree with Mr Senators that it is better to turn halfway than to go astray. We have also drawn attention to the feasibility of legislation from the perspective of Tax Administration, UWV and SVB. In particular, we have considered the feasibility from the perspective of the citizen, because of its limited capacity to act. As a result, the government is an important, if not the main cause of the debt problems among Dutch people. We look forward to the findings of the interdepartmental policy research on this subject. It may also give us an opportunity to act as a chamber of inquiry. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the urgent call to stop turning on all kinds of buttons in response to purchasing power plates, but to thoroughly overhaul the machine itself. In fact, purchasing power plates assume that nothing changes in the living conditions of the citizen. However, the greatest impact on purchasing power is created precisely when changes are taking place in the lives of citizens through changes in work, children, divorce, pension and so on. It is precisely with this kind of change that we see that citizens' capacity to act is falling short, and that is precisely where the problems arise. As far as we are concerned, the purchasing power plates give an extremely distorted picture. We urgently call for this broader perspective to be taken into account in legislative proposals. I still have a few closing words. The PvdA considers it premature, as I said in the introduction, to put the present bill to the vote prior to the consent of the House of Representatives to de novelle. Nor, given the experience of this Chamber with the Tax Plan, has the Secretary of State convinced me that this should be accepted by this Chamber before 1 November. That is why we support Mr Kox's appeal and request for order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not want to go into the legislative proposal in the second term. It's a bill we all want. That is why I would like to go further on the order proposal. I have just been referred to a further passage on the Eerste Kamer's own website to which Mr Kox just referred. I simply quote: "The First Chamber may also accept the legislative proposal to be amended with the promise that adaptation (later) by means of a novelle will take place." I therefore propose that, in view of the importance that we all attach to this regulation, this legislative proposal should be adopted in good time so that it can be implemented by 1 January. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. I call Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. Three things in two and a half minutes. First of all, I would like to join all those parties who have indicated that implementation capacity and feasibility should be taken into account in a broader perspective. We split our executive services, i.e. the Tax Administration and other, all kinds of regulations in the stomach that they have to carry out. All the time, it's gone wrong. It seems to me appropriate to analyse this in a broad perspective and to propose solutions. The second is about the order proposal. It's no big deal for me, but I understand that it's no big deal to follow the royal road either. The Secretary of State says, of course, 'don't you think', I understand that; she would rather come home with an adopted proposal. But if it is not a matter of principle, that is, if it does not affect the people concerned who are entitled to benefit, then I am strongly in favour of following the path advocated in Mr Kox's order proposal. We shall therefore support it. The third is about cash register and Kafka. I misunderstood the Secretary of State. Actually, I'd rather talk about Kafka. Basically, you don't want to end up in it. And then we won't end up in it, but the citizen will end up in it. The citizens end up in it because of the following. We say you were entitled to money. "We first denied that. But we made a mistake, and now you're getting the money back. But because you get the money back, you have to repay us again." That can't be the intention. By the way, I hear that the Secretary of State himself says the same thing. I think she's responding in a sympathetic way. She says: I would rather not see it happen either, but yes, my colleague says that there is no other way. I note that there is broad support in the Chamber for the idea that this should not be the case. I would like to table a motion in which we support the Secretary of State in her efforts to ensure that people do not end up in Kafka by getting a post-payment and then having to pay back part of that post-payment. Vote on that motion can take place at the time when the legislative proposal is on the table, I presume. But I'd be happy to leave that to you. Think of it as a encouragement to your conversations with the Secretary of State for Finance. The motion was also signed by Mrs Sent of the Labour Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u114	I don't know how it goes: should I come to you, chairman, and hand over the motion? That's what I thought. The President shall: Mr Van Gurp and Mr Sent proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people wrongly did not receive a child-related budget;]] [[noting that those affected will still receive this budget;]] [[noting that this post-payment has no effect on the review income for the other supplements;]] [[noting that this post-payment does count for the assets on receipt;]] [[considers that it is undesirable for those affected by this post-payment to be reduced to another benefit;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the post-payment will not have a negative effect on other benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35010-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering our questions. The Christian Union Group and the SGP Group will be happy to vote in favour of this bill and preferably today. We wanted to make it clear to the group that will receive the child-related budget. We wholeheartedly support the substantial increase in this child-related budget for middle-income families. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State has already said that families who have experienced the economic crisis should be given financial support. It's up to them, too. Mr. Chairman. Our two groups are quite shocked by the implementation barriers. We have discussed this in detail. Many families have been affected by this. But today we have seen a Secretary of State who takes these concerns very seriously. It is a pity that her colleague from Finance was not present today, but that is clearly no different. Our groups are pleased that it is not indexing the job. I tried to dig deeper in my contribution by also pointing out the enormous complexity of our system of social benefits and schemes. This is certainly not conducive to a smooth implementation by the Tax Administration. We're gonna get some real professional boundaries here. Vulnerable groups should be able to rely fully on public authorities in implementing social security laws designed to provide relief. Our group and the SGP Group welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to a comprehensive vision of the ibo report from a citizen's point of view, of that complexity and of whether we can do something about it in a corrective sense. We look forward to that reaction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the pleasurable way of replying and for not getting past it. That's very good. If the government does something wrong, the government must acknowledge its mistake and fix it as well as possible. On the recovery that was initially chosen, we differed with other parties. Now the right solution is chosen. That is why I think we need to make the right assessment. The Secretary of State has made it clear that this law as such has nothing to do with the recovery operation. It's being set in motion. For adjusting the law as such, we have plenty of time. The IRS knows what he's up to. It is also following this debate. Our services are always supposed to keep an eye on what we do here. So I think it's really the royal way to solve it this way. I really appeal to this Chamber to adhere to the agreements we have and not to deviate from a procedure that we always follow for a non-binding reason. It is true that once a novelle has been submitted as a kind of legislative amendment afterwards, but then it is really the very special exceptions to the rule. I do not think it is necessary to do so now, because the rule as such can simply be maintained. I haven't heard the Secretary of State say it can't be done either. Then in September, after all the troubles that preceded it, the Secretary of State and we will have a bill that is good, that is good and that will make everyone in the Netherlands happy. Well, get over that these days. So I suggest we do it this way, but we'll talk about it further. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me first respond to the order proposal. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether there are any urgent reasons for taking this vote today. If you give us that, you can also satisfy Mr. Kox. Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of talk in this debate about the feasibility of all the allowances we have arranged in this country. Not only the government's proposal, but also proposals in Parliament have often not improved in terms of implementation. What I wouldn't want is for there to be an investigation into how the Tax Administration, the SVB or the UWV do it, because then we're again investigating each cottage separately. As far as I am concerned, it must be a wide-ranging study on whether we are doing well with the implementing arrangements and whether we can do otherwise, not only in terms of implementation but also in terms of their availability to citizens. There's just been a motion on the power test. I also asked in the first period to do something about it. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how to prevent people from getting screwed up by the power test, to put it that way. Perhaps the Secretary of State can write a letter about that. Then the restoration of the omission to use the government's language. There are questions from Peters and Omtzigt at this point. I happened to notice they were filed yesterday. These questions relate to the possibility that the situation may have changed compared to five years ago. A couple may be divorced or someone may be disgusted from the parental power. If you only look at the person who has received child benefit in the past for the benefit, we are wrong. How are you gonna fix that? Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State remains too vague for me when it comes to the problems of the single and two-parent families with the same income. You should not only respond to this by saying that this was a political choice at the time. Mrs De Bruijn also asked about this. I know that political choice was made once. However, I think it was a wrong choice. We should also treat equal cases equally. Would you like to make a commitment on that point? Would you like to write us a letter to inform us more about how you're going to solve this or to inform us more about why you don't want to solve it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I give the floor to Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u121	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the clear answer to the questions. I have two more points. There's one more question I want to ask you. We have previously had a policy review of article 10 child regulations budget SZW and the report building blocks for policy review. Why are the simplifications that have already been identified in this context not now taken into account in so far as they lead to changes in the law? Why weren't they included in the amendment of the Children's Budget Act? Have there been any recommendations from the policy review relating to this law? Why are they not taken into account, given the urgency of simplification? Then there is my second point. The Secretary of State has indicated that we can look forward to the ibo-part research, which I asked for in the first term, at the end of 2019. That's good news. The Secretary of State will accompany this with a comprehensive, broad cabinet response, which also includes a broader view of our tax system in relation to the surcharges. Mr Ester and Mr Kox asked for this this this morning with broad support from the Chamber. This cabinet response will be drawn up from the perspective of the citizen. That seems very important to me. However, I would also like to include the perspective of the executive services. I raised the question this morning whether these services are sometimes not overestimated. As far as I can see, they have said on all the execution tests: we are going to do that, that is not a problem, we are going to get that data. If we do get a broader cabinet response, I think it is very important to include the perspective of implementation in addition to the citizens' perspective. This concerns both services that fall under your responsibility, such as the SVB, but also services that fall under the responsibility of your colleague in the Cabinet who has the Tax Administration and the UVW in his portfolio. Thank you. I'm curious to hear your reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. No one wants to speak in second term. Then I'll ask the Secretary of State if she has the opportunity to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Let's see. I found it. I've been writing a little bit. If I have missed a question here and there, I would of course like to hear it. I would like to say the following about whether or not to vote. What is particularly important is that the Tax Administration simply has the order to be able to settle the matter as of 1 September. That's important to me. I really do not want to enter into the debate that the Chamber has on the form, but what I do think is important is that I can go to the service with a clear mandate. 'Cause he's gonna have to take care of things for me. Then it's the 500 million. The proposal that I thought I could see from what is on the website of the First Chamber is that there is a variant in which we are now voting on the proposal. I repeat the commitment that I will make another proposal on the indexation and that will lead through the Lower House to the Upper House. I can also imagine that we are voting on the current proposal, but I undertake to send a repair law to the Second and First Chambers, that we are investigating such a variant. Then I would very much like to ask for some backup for a moment, because I would like to commit to a proper legal procedure. For me, it is crucial that I, if we want to get the extra 500 million from all these people on 1 January, should really be able to give all income groups a well-founded mandate to the Tax Administration. For me, that's a ruling from the Supreme Court. I'd appreciate it most of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u124	Sometimes help comes from above and sometimes it comes directly from this device, the iPad, this amazing device of the First Chamber. In 2007 this Chamber adopted a novelle and you don't believe it: that was novelle on the child-related budget in connection with the increase in the children's allowance for 2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u125	It was an amount of four tens at that time. It's a little higher now. That bill was passed in September in the Lower House and then it was decided that there should be a novelle. That novelle came and when was it treated? At the same time. The plenary session took place together with the original bill and the law was subsequently incorporated into the Official Journal. So it's a rule and there's a precedent. And there's no need to do it differently. So I really suggest we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u126	In the sense that the House of Representatives will return for a meeting after 1 September. I'd like to make a tough statement to the IRS. The tax authorities want to get right to that, I understand that in the light of all the discussions that are going on, but they do have a well-founded statement about whether they can get to work. The date of 1 September is before the start of the season of the House of Representatives. I'm certainly willing to look at other namings or cases, but then maybe we should suspend for a while. I would like to have an informed statement, because otherwise it will be difficult to set everything in motion so that this extra 500 million plus indexing will come where they belong on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u127	Good. Mr. Kox is running the iPad because of the story of the novelle. I should especially like to hear the Secretary of State make a plea to have sufficient assurance to be able to give an order to the Tax Administration on 1 September. She makes another suggestion: not to call it a novelle, but to admit a change of law. We've done that here before. I can remember that from last year, early January, with the Law care and coercion. We finally decided to adopt the bill with the risk that a change of law will come through the Lower House and then come this way again. There is already a precedent for this in itself, so that could be a variant as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u128	Anything is possible, but the question is how to do it. I believe that yesterday the Secretary of State said in this Chamber that she will submit the omission, the amendment she wants to make in the legislative proposal, to the Chamber: by novelle, not by legislative amendment. It was late, but on time. I'll give you the rule, I'll give you the precedent. Then I ask the Secretary of State again: is there any urgent reason? The IRS, that $500 million is not in the law. That 500 million comes from the budget. It's been cleared by the government. The IRS can count on that, he can get on with it. The only thing that is going to change is that the indexation, which was wrongly deleted at the time, is simply removed from the novelle. That's all that's gonna happen. There's no one in the Tax Office who says, "Well, now we're gonna get into trouble." I would suggest that there is not a bit of a bit of a bit of a whim here: just do it today. We've done something wrong and we're gonna make it up to you. Let us make amends and not do anything again, the day before the summer recess here set a precedent, to change legislation in a different way than usual. I'm like a conservative, but sometimes I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u129	I am not yet convinced of the Secretary of State's argument that the bill should now be accepted, so that the Tax Administration can start the preparatory work. We have parallels with tax legislation. The Tax Administration starts with preparatory activities, anticipating the adoption of the Tax Plan in December, but that Tax Plan does not need to be accepted in order for that preparatory work to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u130	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u131	I should like to express my reservations when it comes to the procedure of the Chamber. I would really like to avoid any appearance or any hint that I want to make use of procedures. I have been a Member of Parliament myself; I just would never want that. I went looking for an opportunity to serve the Chamber, because I understood and also saw in the contribution of the First Chamber that in particular the indexation was the pressing point. Once again, if I had known earlier about the discussion that is taking place in the bosom of the cabinet, we could have repaired it sooner or later. It's also the momentum that's there right now. The date of the indexation is 15 October. The IRS can do that until 15 October. But we are going to make a different distribution of the target groups that receive the child-related budget. The emphasis is placed more on couples, the phasing-out rate is increased and the lines are going to run less steeply. So it really is a system change which the Tax Administration said in the execution test: we really want to know on 1 September; then we need to have a formal go from the Ministry of Social Affairs. You have all stressed the importance of the implementation, because it goes wrong there so often. I also think it is right for the Member States to take a formal decision on this matter. That is why I have looked: where can I find a possible procedure? I understand very well that something that is being used very reluctantly must remain cautious. That's why I'm definitely looking for other options. I could also look at repair legislation. I have never promised so many times that I will still make an index, so as far as I am concerned, that is also a harsh statement. Then perhaps we would be able to vote on this law in your Chamber, after which I will give you a repair law, which of course has to pass the House of Representatives first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u132	I shall first give Mrs Sent the floor for a reply and then you will have the floor, Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u133	I would like to be explained by the Secretary of State to what extent the proposal before us differs from the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u134	I don't know. I have never made a tax plan, but a law on the child-related budget, so I have to keep the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u135	The Tax Plan also includes preparatory work, prior to the vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u136	Look, SZW is the holder of the law and the client. We have asked the Tax Administration: what do you need to implement this law by January 1st? They let us know: if we know that on September 1st, we can do so. That's the knowledge I deal with. I didn't send for that. If they had said November 1st, I would have liked it, too. It's coming together in a wonderful way in terms of date. I'm trying to be very transparent about that. I don't have a hidden agenda. I don't taste it here either. We just want the recovered amount to come to the people on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u137	Am I seeing this right? We could change the word "novelle" to "the Secretary of State promises to come up with a letter of amendment" because the adoption of this law would be one possibility. The second possibility would be that we would not vote on the articles that do not index targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u138	Mr Kox, to conclude this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u139	It shouldn't be embarrassing. This bill was not approved in the Lower House by the groups of the Labour Party, GroenLinks, the Party for Animals and the SP for this reason. Now, therefore, we should vote in favour of a law which removes this indexation with the promise that it will be introduced afterwards. I do not think that the government should put the Chamber in that position if there is no pressing reason. What the IRS says is nice, but the IRS doesn't rule this country. The government rules this country. The Tax Administration knows exactly what is going to happen, knows the text of the law and also knows which paragraph is going to be amended. All of that can happen. I do not think that the Secretary of State should now say to me and other groups: vote for a law that you opposed with the promise that we will change it afterwards. It could have been done long before the 15th of October. It's something else if the mistake had been in this room, but it was definitely somewhere else. I am therefore very much in favour of not telling the Secretary of State that this is the way it should be, but that, as with a novelle, she is offering to do it this way. That's the royal road, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u140	I wouldn't propose. I'm trying to be of service to the trial. I have indicated that the indexation can take place on 15 October, but changing the system is a direct consequence of this law, making a difference between the phasing-out limit of couples and single people. This is a major change in ICT, with the first advance due as early as December. In addition, 1 September is the date used by the Tax Administration in its execution test. I've found them to be weighted and realistic. I could say to Mrs Oomen: a letter of amendment is difficult, because that is the current law. We also have the Collecting Law SZW. That is possible, but it is also true that it is ultimately up to the Chambers to deal with it. I say it very explicitly: it is not up to me, it is up to the Chamber itself to choose a method of working. I would just like to highlight the dates that are important in this respect for the proper implementation of this legislative proposal. I can't make it any better; September 1st is an important date for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u141	Is this your speech or do you have any other points for discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. I had a number of supplementary questions, but I was already busy looking at what I could possibly compress in the light of legislation, which makes it possible that I missed a single one. In any case, Mrs Oomen asked: can you eliminate the difference between different types of family? It's not for me to do that here and now. It is up to me to say that there are a number of differences between which I would like to map out more closely. That is also the reason for the follow-up investigation. Sometimes a number of measures are targeted at a specific target group, e.g. single parents in the assistance or sole earners. When it comes to the building blocks of research into child schemes, we are indeed launching follow-up actions where simplification is involved. Among other things, this is an investigation into how to achieve simplifications abroad, because it is indeed very complex. I will inform the Chamber about these actions after the summer. A general consultation on this policy review is planned in the Lower House on 31 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u143	I have asked whether the Secretary of State is prepared to put in a letter clearly, including for this Chamber, why the difference is made with the same income between one and more earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u144	As far as I am concerned, that is also what I am trying to do with the research, because that must also make that difference understandable. Let me give you an example. The screening of the child schemes shows that 165% of the costs are reimbursed for single parents under a certain cost component, which is different from that of a different family. At least that's worth the question of why. That's why I did the follow-up. I understand the question in this way: is there here and now an end to the difference between the treatment of certain groups? That's not something I can do here and now. But in response to this particular question: that is why I did that follow-up study, and of course I am very willing to send it to the Upper House as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u145	What's the deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u146	Oh, oh, I'm gonna take a look at my officials. September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u147	Then we'd be happy to wait for your letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u148	Finally, I come to the motion by Mr Van Gurp and Mrs Sent to letter I. I must advise against this motion, because I am dealing with this recovery operation within the legal system, and it is as it is. This was also indicated in the Lower House by the Secretary of State for Finance, where such a motion was also tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u149	No one has been held to the impossible. I wouldn't want that either. At the same time, in this dossier, we have experienced earlier that you said 'it can't all be done' and then it turns out to be possible in the end. So we would like to support you in your efforts to make the most of it. Do I hear you say that what is being asked here is simply not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u150	In the end, they are legal and legal frameworks. So I can imagine that this discussion will also take place, for example, in the context of the debate on the ibo Supplements. But I can also imagine the following. Certain benefits are really a safety net. You're using a power line. Of course, you can have a whole discussion about that. I think that this is going to take some time for today. We should have that discussion in the future, but at the moment I do have to deal with the legal rules that exist. This is not possible within the current legal context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u151	Mrs Oomen asked the same question: can the Secretary of State not at least write us a letter in which she tells us how she takes all the creativity out of the box to prevent that kafka effect from happening? If you promise to do so, then at least you have made an extreme effort and perhaps it would be possible to hold the motion after consultation with Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u152	Once again, you ask me to speak out on an instrument of the Chamber. I find that very difficult. Let me put it this way: may I include this point in the response we give to the ibo Supplements, in which we give an extensive appreciation from SZW of what lies ahead? 'Cause I think that's where it belongs. Then we can also look at it in the overall context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u153	This is another case. This is about people getting paid back to what they were entitled to, and because they get paid back, they're screwed in the power test and they don't get it anyway. That is why I would like you to write, in cooperation with the Secretary of State for Finance, a letter stating: how can we solve this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u154	I will contact my colleague from the Treasury and send a letter to the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u155	If you'd like to write a letter on that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u156	I'm gonna do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u157	Mr Van Gurp, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u158	If you write a letter, we can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u160	At the request of Mr Van Gurp, I propose that his motion (35010, letter I) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u161	Mr. Chairman. I think I came to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-3.u162	Thank you. We can now suspend the sitting. After lunch, Mr Kox's procedural proposal will be discussed whether or not the vote will take place today on the legislative proposal and the motion. I shall therefore suspend the debate until after lunch, until 1.30 p.m.
