ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the budget for Justice and Security, Section 35300-VI. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. Today we are discussing the first term of office. We have 24 speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	I shall begin with Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank every police officer from the bottom of my heart for all the work they do for us, for all the times they turn in their days off to ensure our safety, for all the times that they, despite insults, violence and all the other misery, put on the uniform every day and go to work. Mr. Chairman. They deserve better: more colleagues and fewer tasks. This budget is not going to help. It's a bullshit budget, a budget of nothing, a copy of the previous one. Again there are the hollow words that there is extra money for more blue on the street, while money has been taken away by a devious detour: through the non-turnover of the price adjustment, there will be no less than 145 million less to spend in the next five years. This has a direct impact on the base teams, but we do not hear the minister. The police capacity is falling and the promised influx of 1,100 officers is not being made. What is increasing is the number of tasks: the mocromafia, Taghi and soldiers, organized crime, personal security, drug problems, undermining and the number of confused persons for which the police are still forced to withdraw. In the budget of the police, of which you are much wiser than that of the minister, page 43 literally says: "The established budgetary framework leaves no room for new challenges, other than new ones for old." And doing more and more with fewer and fewer people is not possible either. So I'm going to ask the Minister again: what tasks do they take off? Another quote. "The police force has already cracked, and now it has collapsed through the cracking," to quote the chief of police. The Minister does not yet have an answer, no money and no long-term vision. I asked for this long-term vision to be included in the budget exactly one year ago. Over the past few weeks, the government has come up with 500 million for tackling the problem of nitrogen and 460 million for teachers. This minister comes with nothing extra for the police. That must be frustrating for him, right? Previously, as an attorney at the law firm Allen & Overy, he probably got a lot better at negotiating. Mr. Chairman. What is also frustrating is that there is always money, almost a blank cheque, for the asylum chain. Last year there was another 300 million more than planned. This year, it's worth 134 million. That's on page 18 of the budget. Extra acidic is the fact that these shortages in the asylum chain are partly covered by the police budget. The cabinet always comes up with the argument that this is a treaty obligation. But the government also has a duty to ensure the safety of its citizens, security in the sense of decisive and effective action against large and small crime. Strange but true: the right to security is not in the Constitution. I ask the Minister: why not? Isn't it a good idea to record that? Then it is also a handle in the Council of Ministers when negotiating the much-needed budget for our agents. Mr. Chairman. In case the minister still has doubts: in the past, the CDA, the PvdA and the VVD were in favour of this. There is even an initiative legislative proposal from 2001, so the Minister can get on with it in no time. Even the text for the proposed article is already there. I'd say submit for consultation. It doesn't cost anything. I'd like a response. Then the appreciation for the police personnel. That's what's not right in the last few years. Had to leave under Rutte II 3,000 agents, under Rutte III 1,100 more. That's not how you treat people. In the care sector, there is the quality framework for personnel composition. This includes standards for sufficiently skilled staff and the obligation to anticipate expected shifts in tasks. Why isn't this there for the police? I'd like to hear that from the Minister. Even worse: the PTSD problem. I'm still getting e-mails from agents in the cold with their mental problems. Nothing as sad as that. Why aren't long-term files just being paid off? Why does the ministry spend millions on the state attorney and can't there be any money to cops who unfortunately won't recover? Stop having endless discussions about liability and fix it, I'd say. The minister was a labour law attorney. I dealt with injury files, among other things. That is something else, but I think we both know that employer and employee do not benefit from years of discussions about liability. So I'd like a reaction. Mr. Chairman. In that context, an idea that also costs no money and which also expresses appreciation for our agents: why not bring the agents under the workings of the Veterans Act? And I mean not just cops on missions, but all cops. They are also at risk for their own lives for safety in the Netherlands. In the meantime, the profession is so heavy and complex and the pressure on our agents is so great that this comparison with the military does apply. I have examples of agents dealing with so much violence and threat in one service that the spiritual pressure is similar. In addition, the ever-increasing roster pressure is added. Not for nothing did I start my speech with the appreciation for the agents and I referred to the surrender of days off. Military personnel are at home through broadcasts and exercises, police officers due to the roster pressure. Roosters come as a concept and are only adopted a week before entering and can even be adapted in the interest of the service. Additional advantage of applying the Veterans Act is that there is then one window for the care and knowledge, skills and expertise that one now has from the Defence Corner. Despite the good intentions and the measures proposed by the police on this point, I still get signals that they are very dependent on the manager. And also that must be able to build on a system in which knowledge and skill are present. Agents deserve the necessary care and structure and they are already present in the Veterans Act. So I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President, not entirely, but I would like to say a few words on this point. We are going to talk about this in more detail at another time, but now I want to say something about the money, because that is what we are talking about today. Why should the police take this out of the existing, too tight a budget? Are you sure you can do that? In fact, the police budget literally states that new issues cannot be changed unless they are new to old age, or that something must be left to do something new. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The police must also be visible on the streets in order to maintain authority. This means that there is a structural need for more money for the police. Capacity is now being removed for the monitoring and security of persons, despite the promised incidental EUR 10 million from the special contribution, as the Minister stated in a letter this morning. Structural money is also needed for the team announced by the Minister after the murder of lawyer Wiersum. It costs, allegedly, about 53 million a year. There is no such capacity and so it is at the expense of the basic units. Again with the roster pressure. Police stations are sometimes even unmanned, and so many are already closed. That's what I said last year. In other words: the visibility of the police on the street is decreasing and thus also the authority. Hence my last sentence, a mantra that I keep repeating: the PVV believes that, in addition to structural money for the police, there should be a structural undermining fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mrs Helder. Let me now give the floor... Mr De Graaf is on my list, but I see Mr Markuszower. Oh, wait, I still see Mr. Azarkan for an interruption. You really need to keep moving, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	You're so young and so energetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u7	Yes, you're absolutely right. I got put on the wrong foot because Mrs. Helder said "at this point." I thought there was a second part of her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u8	No, she said that a while ago. Anyway, ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. I can endorse a lot of what Mrs Helder says about the police. I too am extremely happy that there are cops working hard that day in, day out to make the Netherlands safer. I've said that a lot. I also note that there have been abuses in recent times, involving sexual harassment of women, racism and discrimination. That doesn't do a lot of cops any good. I wonder how Mrs Helder looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr Azarkan is well aware of this, as we discussed this during several AO's Police. Discrimination and racism are always wrong, by anyone, against anyone and whatever. So we always speak out against that, albeit from a different angle. And I always will. The point is that we think differently about how to solve it. And we also think differently about the cause. My group is not in favour of this diversity lobby, to put it that way. I just think that this has created a polarizing effect. Again, discrimination is wrong. That needs to be resolved internally. I do not feel very strongly about increasing this in the media either, because I do not think that we are helping in this way. We will help if we ensure that there is enough money for the police so that they can do their job with enough people and there is sufficient capacity to deal with such abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u11	That's a clear answer. We also saw problems in the National Unity, which at least endangers the fight against serious crime and terrorism. It is important that we express our opinion on this. My question to Mrs Helder is as follows. These structural abuses don't help the image of the police and a lot of cops. How does she intend to deal with that? It's one thing to distance myself from it, but I don't hear any ideas in her contribution about how you address that problem and how we can improve the situation. How can we create a police force that is a good reflection of society, in which women are not sexually intimidated and where people with knowledge and without respect of the person do their work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u12	First of all, I don't want to call it a structural problem, because then you really put the whole organization away as "fault." That's one. I never will. I want to make sure that a newspaper article doesn't lead its own life. I note that the NRC in particular is warming up the same case every time. This is then discussed extensively in talk shows, and then it looks like a structural problem, but it isn't. I have said once again: discrimination must be tackled hard, but you must keep an eye on it and keep it in mind that everyone within the police is equal and that everyone has to comply with the same rules. I think that we in the AO's Police have already had a word about it, and we have fought a little bit about it that does not happen. That also means that people don't feel familiar anymore. And apparently, if you press something that hurts, it comes out somewhere else. I do not think there is a structural problem. I think there should be a stop to this diversity thing. I believe that this is a setback against one another, which is now making this problem worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin my speech with an urgent matter. I hope Minister Grapperhaus will listen carefully. It is about the threats and the fatwas that my group chairman has been receiving for 15 years. My party political story will come soon, but this goes beyond party political importance. You remember, Minister Grapperhaus, that my group leader, Mr Wilders, in August last year, in the run-up to the Mohammed cartoon competition, was proclaimed a fatwa by the influential Pakistani spiritual Khadim Hussein Rizvi. The fatwa about Mr Wilders was as follows: everyone who has acquaintances in the Netherlands must approach them and tell them to kill that blasphemist, the blasphemer. Every Muslim living in the Netherlands must go to the blasphemer's house and kill him, says Khadim Hussein Rizvi about Mr Wilders. The day before yesterday, Mr Wilders was informed by the prosecution and the police that that Pakistani Islamic preacher repeated his fatwa against Mr Wilders, after having a video translated from Urdu. This showed that Rizvi, after being released from prison in May of this year, after a six-month detention for resisting the acquittal of the Christian Asia Bibi in Pakistan, once again threatens Mr Wilders with death in front of a large crowd. His call to decapitate Wilders was enthusiastically received by a crowd of Muslims who then all shouted slogans to decapitate Wilders, slit his throat. We know that followers of Islamic preachers actually follow fatwas. It's a death sentence being pronounced. There are over one and a half billion Muslims in the world, a quarter of the world's population. Some of them, even quite a percentage, follow this Islamic preacher and thus follow his fatwa. So is Yunaid I. Last year the same imam called for the murder of Geert Wilders. Several Pakistani have then tried to take action and travelled to the Netherlands to slaughter Geert Wilders in his home or in the Lower House. Luckily, one of these guys got caught. Fortunately, the judges were so wise to give this terrorist nearly twice as much jail time as the prosecutor demanded. Salute for these judges, but this shows that Islamic preacher Rizvi must be taken very seriously. And a year after the first fatwa, he does it again. Today, now, Mr. Wilders is reporting this man again. I know that police and prosecutors and the services have been aware of this since the end of October, but my appeal to the minister is: do more, defend our democracy, defend our parliamentarians, stand for freedom of expression and never accept threats or violence! Bring your Pakistani fellow minister in, force him to pick up this life-threatening Rizvi, who has also said that an atomic bomb must be thrown into the Netherlands. What are you going to do now, Minister Grapperhaus? This is a Dutch Member of Parliament, a group chairman of the second party of the Netherlands, an opposition leader who is threatened for the second time with a fatwa and more than that. Has the Pakistani ambassador been summoned since the end of October? Is Rizvi's arrest demanded? Have you called the Dutch ambassador back yet? Have you discussed with your colleague, Mr Blok, what actions can the Netherlands take towards Pakistan? As is well known, after the first fatwa against Mr Wilders, the State requested legal aid from Pakistan to persuade the authorities there to question Rizvi as a suspect of threat and sedition, as did the national cricket player Latif who had put a 3 million Pakistani rupee premium on Wilders' head. Are you going to take more firm steps now? I'd like to hear from you what you've done and what you're going to do. What is the situation after this second fatwa with the safety of Mr Wilders, who has lost his freedom for more than fifteen years because of threats and fatwas and who now has to fear again that idiots will visit him at home or in the Second Chamber to slit his throat? What is the situation with that, I ask the Minister. Is the security secure enough? The Justice and Security budget. It should be about numbers. How much do we spend and is it enough? Is it enough to make the Dutch rule of law robust and to make the Netherlands safe? As long as the ministry is rotten, as long as it acts as only mob gangs act, it doesn't make much sense to look at the numbers. 'Cause it's not nothing. Julio Poch was thrown by Minister Hirsch Ballin, the CDA predecessor of Grapperhaus for the Argentine lions: Barbertje had to hang to serve a higher state interest. All exculpatory documents concerning Poch and all documents that could demonstrate the reprehensible behaviour of Hirsch Ballin and the officials of this ministry and the prosecution have disappeared. A few years later, the VVD Minister of Justice and Security Opstelten ordered Geert Wilders to finish politically, à la Pim Fortuyn, only through the Minister's Public Prosecutor's Office. Grapperhaus and all the state's attorneys are anxiously withholding essential information from this case. No one can know how corrupt this ministry is. They are doing everything they can to hide how they and their predecessors and top officials have trampled on the foundations of the rule of law. North Korea is jealous of the way in which this Ministry and this OM deal with the group leader of the second party of the Netherlands, a critical MP and opposition leader. And North Korea is jealous of the way successive ministers and officials get away with this behavior. Who are happy with this ministry? Those are the paedophiles of the Netherlands. They barely get caught. If they get caught, they rarely get real punishment. If they are caught and turned out to be members of the caste of Grapperhaus, if they turn out to be employees of Grapperhaus, if they are former board members of the youth association of the VVD, the party of Minister Dekker, if they are chief prosecutor, then they will be beaten by their friends. Those pedophiles, who commit crimes against young defenseless victims, then escape the dance. The Mafia is tough, but takes good care of its own people and now it has turned out to be also for its own paedophiles. The Ministry is cheating and messing around. They cover it up when asylum seekers commit serious crimes. The Netherlands should not know that: that would only be in the hands of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mr Markuszower uses his usual words, but he also accuses all kinds of people of something. I'd like to ask him to back up those accusations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u16	I've made a lot of accusations. Which one should I back up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u17	Among other things, paedophiles are held over their heads by the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u18	Didn't they ask oral questions about that the other day? I think you were quiet at the time. It was a former colleague of yours, so I understand you were quiet at the time. But what's going on? There's a ring of pedophiles. A ring of adult men who have taken advantage of young people, of children under 18. Ten or eleven of them, I must say, have been convicted for that crime. One of them hasn't been prosecuted. That was a deputy district attorney, an employee of the minister, a former board member of the youth party of the VVD, a former colleague of yours from D66 and a member of the magistrate. Yeah, and that one's in some weird, crazy way. You don't know the file. He wasn't prosecuted, because there would have been a mistake. We talked about that extensively the other day...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yes, that's right, at Oral Question Time. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u20	The details are known to you, aren't they? We don't have to let the magistrate go any further by repeating this story, do we? They've just made one of your friends look good. Ten have been convicted and one, their boyfriend, escaped the dance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr Markuszower, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u22	It's more of a point of order, but I just don't think these accusations are appropriate. The case knows everyone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u23	But isn't it true what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr President, I thought I had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u25	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr Markuszower does not put forward any evidence of the accusation he is making, namely that it is a deliberate action to compromise someone. Then you can then pop up a whole case here in front of the Chamber.I think we all know him, but of course there's no evidence of that. I would ask him to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u27	In the end, this is about the truth. The truth is, ten of them were convicted for the same crime and one wasn't. That one was Deputy District Attorney. He was a former board member of the youth party of the VVD. He was a former employee of the Ministry of Minister Grapperhaus. And he got away from the dance. Those are the facts, that's the truth. Just maybe it's not a setup, but it's a bummer. Fine, but I think it was a setup.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u28	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u29	In addition to what Mr Groothuizen has said, I do take offense at the fact that Mr Markuszower says that it is covered by ministers and by rulers and that they are their friends. I take that as an offense, and I would ask him to support that well, then to report it or to take it back. I just think that's the wrong way to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u30	I didn't say it was because of it. I find that this person, this pedophile... Others have been convicted of that. Ten others who were in the same ring of paedophilia were convicted, but one didn't. Who was that one? That was a Grapperhaus employee. That was a former board member of Minister Dekker's youth party. That was a deputy chief officer. He was impressed by his friends of the magistrate, who are overwhelmingly members of D66, GroenLinks and the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u31	It's one of two, isn't it? Is Mr Markuszower saying that the reason this person has not been punished is that he is a friend of this minister? That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u32	I didn't say that. I'm just finding that if you're high up in the caste, if you're high enough in that state's attorney's office, you're gonna get away with everything. Then you can leave Julio Poch in prison for 3,000 days in Argentina. Then you can prosecute the group chairman of the second party of the Netherlands. Then you can get away with paedophilia. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u33	On the border of a point of order and an interruption. I don't feel the need to ask, but if I stay put, I feel like I'm gonna accept this. What's being said here... It is not the first time that Mr Markuszower has done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u34	It certainly won't be the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr. Markuszower, we're just getting started. Mr Van Dam has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u36	I'm actually just standing here saying that I think this is essentially so wrong what is being done here, so misplaced and so real about the truth, that I just want to make that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u37	Then you've made your point. I suggest you proceed, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u38	I suggest I answer the question anyway. Two things. One. Mr. Van Dam of the CDA, it won't be the last time. If everyone here is silent, I will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u40	No, one more thing, Mr. Chairman. The second is that I always notice that when people find the content annoying, when people find it difficult to address the content, when people find the truth difficult, then they start whining, then they start to see, then they start crying over the tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u42	The tone. That's always the Netherlands at its best. The CDA at its best. The tone. Talk about the content. Face the truth. Why don't you take a look at the truth? Grab the pedophile who's now out of the dance. Make sure he's arrested and prosecuted. That's what you should do. What else does the Ministry do? It's tampering with research data. The scientific research agency WODC does not appear to be independent at all. The political leadership of this ministry pushes the scientists towards the politically desired outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u43	Is it still at the previous point, Mr. Van den Berge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr President, on a point of order. I do not think that Mr Markuszower can talk about people who are not taking part in this debate. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u46	I don't envy whistleblowers in this ministry. Under Grapperhaus and Dekker, whistleblowers are dealt with very hard. Criticism of their policies and their ministry is not tolerated. Here too, we see that deviousness. With a pious face, Grapperhaus claims to be in the room, so I can talk about it for running cameras that he appreciates whistleblowers and that he will protect them. But while he's saying that, whistleblowers are being bugged and prosecuted by his state's attorney's office. No whistleblower is safe anymore with this ministry and this OM, with the result that many abuses remain under the carpet. There is one constant factor in this ministry: the factor of unreliability. Both the civil servants and the ministers are competing with each other who is the most unreliable. Sometimes a CDA wins, sometimes a VVD and sometimes a top official who is often of the same colour as his directors. Because the ministers and top officials are so unreliable, this unreliableness is piercing up and down. Everyone lies there at the ministry and at that state's attorney's office. They're lying to the room. They're lying in front of the camera. They lie to each other. The biggest victim of their misconduct is the Netherlands, because Dutch people do not get the safety they deserve. The chance is low in the Netherlands. There aren't enough criminals being prosecuted. The penalties imposed are far too low. Adults, offenders up to and including 22 years of age, who commit horrendous crimes such as murder and rape, are tried according to juvenile justice and therefore receive ridiculously low penalties. And nowadays they often don't even get punishment, but a fag conversation. I can't believe it. Of course, the VVD should have built prisons, but closed them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u47	I have a question about the heavier punishment. I heard Mr Markuszower say that in the case of Junaid, the man who tried to kill Geert Wilders, a double sentence was imposed as much as the prosecutor had demanded. Mr Markuszower said: homage, we do that well. Now it looks like he's saying in this part, we're punishing too low. So I don't understand anymore. Are we punishing too low, or is it only good enough when it comes to matters that concern the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u48	Well, good enough? I'd rather give terrorists life. But look, if things go well, you have to say they're going well. And if things don't go well, they don't go well. You should be able to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u49	That's right. And the question is, is it all right with the judge? Or is it only good when it suits the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u50	No, in general, the penalties imposed in the Netherlands are far too low. I've said that a lot. The D.A.'s demand is too low and the sentence imposed is too low. In general, that's true. In this particular case, pay homage to the judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u52	Of course, the VVD should have built prisons, but closed them. As a result, more than 11,000 convicts are now on the loose and the prison system has been imploded. There's not enough motivated staff and it's a feast for the prisoners. There are absurd freedoms. Drugs, porn, parties; anything can happen in Sander Dekker prisons. And everything's being smuggled in. The TBS system is a stinking cesspool, and the bottom of that cesspool is far from in sight. The TBS system is full of people who do not belong in clinics because they are not treatable. So they belong in a prison. Within the walls of the TBs clinics there is plenty of aggression. More than once a week, there is a serious incident somewhere in a TBS clinic. Since 2017, there have been at least 70 incidents involving serious personal injury. Those same TBs clinics muck away numbers of escapes and crime because otherwise they'll lose their funding. The TBS system has become a money issue, and has really nothing to do with the safety of our society anymore. Close those TBs clinics! Mr. Chairman. The entire criminal justice chain is not functioning at the moment and both ministers have not solved the problems in recent years, but have made them worse. Mr President, I would like to say the following. The Dutch courts are not allowed to judge against the Constitution, but against international treaties. Because we are committed to international treaties in the Netherlands, everything we do in this country is tested against all these treaties. And so it may be that here in the Netherlands we are held to all kinds of insane statements by foreign judges. We didn't appoint them, we didn't choose them, we can't fire them. We are being dragged into their morally reprehensible statements last week. The European Court of Justice of that terrible European Union has decided that products from Judea and Samaria should no longer be labelled "Made in Israel." Turkey occupies Northern Cyprus, Morocco occupies Western Sahara and there are as many as 200 other areas in the world whose status is disputed. Only Israel is condemned by this anti-Semitic court. Israel, which, for all intents and purposes, has not occupied the areas concerned, but has just liberated them. Judea and Samaria are an integral part of the Jewish state of Israel. Our Justice Minister just lets it happen that not buying from Jews becomes the norm again in the Netherlands. The anti-Jewish friends of D66 and GroenLinks, those judges of that crazy court in Brussels, are now given every opportunity to boycott and delegitimate Jews and Israel with the support of the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union in the Netherlands. The judges of the EU have now shown their true anti-Semitic nature, and VVD, CDA and Christian Union stand by and look at it, just like the Minister of Justice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk. He also speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u54	Thank you, Mr President. The Dutch asylum policy is completely out of control. Aggressive and violent asylum seekers may remain in the Netherlands. Asylum seekers who trick the IND with lies and deception with their flight stories get residence permits. And also tour buses full of Moldovans are all allowed to enter the procedure. All azc's are full and the doomsday scenario of the opening of new asylum seekers' centres for lucky seekers is about to come true again. At least 5,000 new beds are needed, and perhaps even 9,000 if the current municipalities no longer want to provide shelter. It is a fact that in places with a COA location, I quote "significantly more registered incidents" of crime occur. Instead of dealing with this, the cabinet is doing virtually nothing. All the semi-soft lap solutions that the cabinet has come up with have failed miserably. You know, not only the Mark Harbers-asylum express "the private bus line for asoasylum seekers" has turned out to be a complete flop. The PVV has said this since the first moment. As long as you don't turn off the harness, and if you can't do that right away, at least lock it down, these problems will continue to arise. A blind man could have seen that if you didn't lock up the troublemakers, but fed them, she put up money for clothing and rewarded criminal behavior, this would be the result. Mr. Chairman. It's to be ashamed of you. But what is perhaps even more embarrassing is the attitude of the parties who have caused all this misery. A VVD'er sits at Wakker Netherlands to speak tough language, while a CDA'er manages to find all the morning papers to fake a lot of action on this theme. All this to hide the fact that it was parties like the CDA and the VVD that were at the root of this government policy. They're in the government now, but they're not doing anything. In fact, they do exactly the opposite and implement the agenda of D66 and GroenLinks. They talk and talk and seek out the media, but at the moment when there are dictations coming from Brussels banning us from locking up illegal immigrants, banning us from rejecting asylum seekers and banning us from expelling terrorists, they are nowhere to be found. Besides, I take that back. They can always be found in the plenary room, in order to torpedo the proposals put forward by the PVV to stop mass immigration and bang illegal immigrants out of the country every time. Our appeal to the government to secure all illegal foreigners pending their departure from the Netherlands has been rejected by the VVD and the CDA. Our appeal to the government not to agree to the UN migration pact, also called the Marrakech Pact, was also rejected by the VVD and the CDA. Our proposal to criminalise the facilitation of human trafficking, also topically, has been rejected by the VVD and the CDA. Our proposal to achieve a total asylum stop was rejected by the VVD and the CDA, but also by the Forum for Democracy. Mr. Chairman. Apparently there are a few more asylum seekers available. As you can see, all parties in the media and on Twitter have a big wave of concern about dealing with the nuisance and illegality, which constantly reject our proposals. And if you ask them why these parties are voting against, they sometimes come up with an excuse to say that we have just seen the feasibility or desirability of our proposals, and thus the desirability of, for example, less EU rules or the desirability of expelling illegal aliens. But did the government parties VVD and CDA themselves come up with proposals that the government is ordering to amend all these EU treaties by threatening to shut down the money supply in Brussels if this does not happen? No, none of that. But now back to the core of the problem. Our borders are wide open and boatloads of fake fugitives are coming in. We don't know who these people are. A majority has no ID at all. They lie that it's written and they play the IND decision-makers a wheel in front of the eyes with manufactured flight stories. Many of those crooks get a residence status because it would be unsafe in Syria. We don't even know if they're Syrians. What kind of madness is this? In the meantime, the cabinet continues to take into the proceedings any illiterate person who can say the word "asylum', whether or not with the help of state-funded asylum lawyers. Cabinet policy goes against the common sense of people. There's no one here who gets it. But it is not just that, because it also goes against the government-controlled EU policy, even against EU rules, such as the Dublin Directive. It obliges the countries of first arrival to deal with the asylum procedure and, if it is up to the PVV, to reject it immediately. But even that's not what the Cabinet wants. EU rules that say that when asylum seekers arrive in the Netherlands, they must be sent back to the country where they entered the EU are constantly ignored. The latest figures: from over 10,320 Dublin claims to September this year, only 1,760 people were actually transferred to the responsible countries. Of more than 80%, we don't know where they are. That's harsh. Then there are those terrible EU rules that can and should be used to the benefit of the Netherlands, and then the cabinet leaves that behind. If there are EU rules that damage the interests of the Dutch taxpayer and our security, then they must be strictly respected. Look at the whole nitrogen story, the pulse fishing that is being turned upside down or the export of WW benefits to Poland. You can't think of it that crazy, or the Dutch should bleed for maintaining mad EU dictations. Mr. Chairman. What's the deal with that? People who have travelled through five, six, seven and sometimes many more safe countries are simply admitted to the Netherlands. They are allowed here in the procedure, while they have come in here via the border with Belgium or Germany. Why does the government undermine its own asylum policy by ignoring these Dublin agreements? Our entire admission policy is frustrated by this cabinet. The Secretary of State stands by and looks at it. We have not yet seen a single proposal and yet we have not seen a single commitment to put the cabinet in order. I understand that too, because if the Secretary of State did, she would immediately be slashed out of GroenLinks. I mean, of course, the VVD, but yes, that difference is often hard to find nowadays. In practice, VVD and GroenLinks are in favour of the same asylum policy. The VVD does talk tough, but has been bending for almost a decade for left-wing parties. Think of not penalising illegality, setting up a children's pardon and, of course, the bed-bath bread schemes for illegal immigrants. They're all files where the VVD, to impress GroenLinks, has gone down its knees. As my group chairman said: from mid-fame to baking bikes, that VVD. Mr. Chairman. Where are we now? We have a Return Directive from Brussels. We have an Asylum Procedure Directive from Brussels. We have a Schengen border code from Brussels. We have the Reception Directive from Brussels. We have long since stopped discussing our own expulsion policies and admission policies. How on earth is it possible for the government to have completely out of control and not only out of control, but also to refuse to bring sovereignty back to the Netherlands in this area, leaving all the problems there? Everyone here knows very well what needs to be done: we have to go back to our admission policy. There are many roads here that lead to Rome. For example, we can denounce the UN Refugee Convention as long as we are still in the EU with an opt-out à la Denmark, or withdraw ourselves from the Convention on Human Rights, for example. But they're too cowardly for that. One prefers Brussels and foreigners rather than the Dutch. The latter also becomes clear with the many millions of euros that this State Secretary spends on procedures stacking asylum seekers, because the processing of their application takes so long. Gee, I'm sorry. That joke costs 5.5 million euros this year. Next year, these crooks will get 17 million euros. It's completely over the shame. Asylum seekers get everything for free here, while the Dutchman has to work very hard and gets caught triple and straight by the government. It is therefore a complete sacrifice by the Dutch Secretary of State, if you ask me. It does nothing about this abuse, except for another bag of taxpayers' money to the IND. In any case, the Dutch taxpayer will pay for the bill. It's a disgrace. The result of all this policy translates into the following figures. Over the past year, only over 9,000 of the more than 21,000 foreigners who had to leave have left: 44%. Where is the other 56%, I ask the Secretary of State. I have not even mentioned the many tens of thousands of illegal immigrants hiding in the Netherlands. So there's hardly anyone leaving. You'd be crazy if you were a lucky hunter. After all, we have a Secretary of State here who is very happy to announce in Nieuwsuur that we will of course continue to arrange beds for people who are not allowed to be here at all. That's just an open invitation to fake fugitives to come here anyway. The Secretary of State will arrange a place to sleep for them. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. For the past ten years, a VVD has been at the head of the JenV ministry. Four VVD executives have already left early. At that time, we moved from over 16 million inhabitants to nearly 18 million now. We've got almost a million immigrants added. We're three, four terrorist attacks ahead. We have many tens of thousands of non-Western immigrants in the assistance. Many tens of billions of taxpayers' money have been thrown over the bar to finance mass immigration, resulting in a shortage of 80,000 homes and waiting lists for ordinary Dutch people of sometimes more than fifteen years old. And then 100,000 more every year: a city the size of Leiden, every year. It's mopping with the tap open. This is the state of the Netherlands at the moment, thanks to the labby VVD policy. The so-called party of the doers. What a farce and what a fake! But it's not too late for the VVD, because now there's Ankie Broekers-Knol on Justice to solve the problems. I assume the Secretary of State has listened carefully to the PVV today. I am curious whether she is a doer in contrast to all the other VVD's and opts for an end to this madness and puts the Dutchman back in the first place. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you, Mr. Emiel van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The security services of our country regularly publish a report under the heading Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands. In that report, they give the terrorist threat level a report figure between 1 and 5. For years, the figure in the Netherlands has been at 4 and that will not fail for the time being if it is up to this cabinet. 4 means "essential" and that, according to the services, means that the chance of an attack is real. The cause of the high level of threat is a combination of a number of things, some of which my colleagues have already discussed. For example, the Netherlands is also a weapons depot for criminals, the Netherlands is a narco state and the rule of law is in decline. But the most important factors are, of course, the open borders and Islam and Islamization. If we do nothing about these factors, the threat level in our country will never fall below 4. No, it'll rise to 5 sooner and stay there in the future. The services we keep repeating because it's just true and because we think that's what we do incredibly good work, but they can't do everything either. The services themselves call the high level of threat the new normal. Technically, of course, that is correct, and I understand that from the services. They can't do anything politically, that's why we have the Ministry and the Minister. But it is of course dramatic if no action is taken. This cabinet is responsible for the open borders, it facilitates Islamization and makes the once so neatly raked string-of-the-letter bus-The Netherlands an incredibly unsafe, criminal, Islamic terrorist gang. Under the responsibility of the Minister, it has become normal for blood to flow regularly through the streets of the Netherlands. It's the new normal. The security services are dealing with at least 500 jihadists and thousands of sympathizers in the Netherlands. Through the open borders we never know exactly how many there are in our country and plan here to honor Allah with even more bloodshed. Mr. Chairman. It's not enough for the minister and this cabinet. Yesterday two women arrived in the Netherlands, sent here by the Turkish sultan Erdogan. These women are collaborators. Politically correct people call it expatriates, but we just call them as they are: collaborators. They deliberately chose the caliphate of Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi, the devil's soul. They deliberately chose the caliphate, where the Islamic rules were performed in perfection and sent promotional films around the world in which the Islamic rules were glorified by beheadings, people who were barbecued or burned alive, people who were sent into the drowning distress in a cage. Yes, there were even countless videos and photos showing young children, sometimes less than 10 years old, in orange suits, giving a neck shot. Now we're confronted with the videos of Caliphate children sniffing at the rest of the world that they're gonna kill us, that they're gonna kill us. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, men and women who choose to live there contribute to the maintenance of Islamic violence and terror. Their children have been damaged by this, but they have often committed acts. They won't recover from that. Those kids, and also those parents, we shouldn't be in the Netherlands. The Minister has been warned a number of times by his own services, for example in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands number 42, which says: "IS is using children in violence." Two reports later: "The minors have consciously gone through a route of blunting and habitation of atrocities and may be prepared for violence. In addition, it is possible that IS can deliberately use children for violence in Europe." Then the Threat statue number 46: "Returners will choose the victim role and abuse it to generate publicity pressure to increase the chance to return and to appease the government with the risks of their return." Threat statue 47 says, "Of underage boys, there may be a threat." How many warnings does this cabinet and the minister of JenV want? How many more warnings is he gonna go in the wind? Because, of course, those children didn't choose to live with terror parents and didn't choose to live in Al-Hol. But what's even more important is that we didn't choose Islam here in the Netherlands, and not at all the PVV. We PVV's put the safety of the Netherlands first. Protection against terrorism is important for the PVV. It's the top priority. Caliphate children are a threat to our security, according to the services. I have just quoted four quotes from the services reports. Every psychologist, educator and any agoog knows that children who have grown up in this way can no longer be resocialized. In fact, deradicalisation is a pseudoscientific fairy tale. The risk of misery is simply too great. Which of the MPs wants a child in the classroom with their kids who participated in executions? Who wants it? Who takes the child that has sworn to slaughter us? And who else believes in making it work so much that he or she dares to take that risk? I don't believe anyone. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: I don't hate children. But a lot of these kids hate us again. I love my own children and I also love the children of the MPs here. The PVV wants children in the Netherlands not to be unnecessarily exposed to the threat of violence. Prevention is still better than cure. Mr. Chairman. The children from Al-Hol are being abused to bring the collaborators of Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi back to the Netherlands. This is due to the UN Refugee Convention, the Children's Rights Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights. The Netherlands has surrendered to these treaties. It's time we cancel those treaties. I would, of course, like a response from the Minister. When the children return, they are entitled to family life. After that, family reunification begins. That is the reality. Then not only the children are back, but also the collaborators themselves. The Netherlands will thus become a terrorist state. But the cabinet still doesn't want to close the borders. It is the NGOs like RefugeeWork Netherlands that are committed to this and it is ultimately judges who decide. The minister lies on his back with his feet up and hides behind vague excuses about his responsibility, but ultimately he does nothing, because he says nothing to be able to do. So Erdogan decides who will end up in the Netherlands. We don't want the thugs here. Then how did those women from Al-Hol get to Ankara? We can see with a satellite the smallest details on the floor all over the world, but the Minister does not know by whom and how the women were helped to Ankara? This needs to be clarified. Nothing individual cases to hide behind, because jihad is a collective event and this is part of the jihad. I want full disclosure from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I told you, yesterday it became painfully clear again that Erdogan decides who is allowed to go to the Netherlands. Not Rutte, not Minister Grapperhaus, no, it's Erdogan. It's too crazy for words. Our call is and remains: send them back! No one else in it, no collaborator has to go back to the Netherlands. If the borders remain open, if we allow Islamization to flourish, if we do not dare to take major measures, the threat level will only increase in the future. Then there will be much, much more blood flowing through the streets of our country. That is simply the reality if we continue on the road we are going. Treaties must simply be denounced. We must take care of our own country and the safety of ourselves and our children, for now and for the future. We do not need these treaties, because they only work against good safety and they further promote Islamisation. Only strong leaders protect their people from that threat. They protect their people from violence, but the electoral corps of weak spines that now controls and controls our country has become part of that danger by not closing the borders and not reducing Islamization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u57	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. Let me now give the floor... Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u58	I just wanted to wait until the end of the speech. I have a question for the PVV. Colorful children who do not dare to go to school in The Hague because they are called names for Zwarte Piet. An attack on a peaceful conference of Kick Out Black Piet. Hitler greetings at the entrance of Saint Nicholas. We're here on the Justice and Security budget. Does Mr De Graaf agree with GroenLinks that we should do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u59	Every Hitler greeting is disgusting, let's put it first. A number of parts were listed. There are kids who don't dare go to school because they're being called names for Black Piet. I don't understand where people's emptiness comes from to call people in a tan for Black Piet. Those aren't my people. The same thing happened in the stands at FC Den Bosch last week. Those people, I was just talking about emptiness, they're empty skulls that combine Black Piet with a Hitler greeting. It doesn't make any sense. I literally don't have any words for it. That's why I liked the gesture of Georginio Wijnaldum with Frenkie de Jong yesterday. Let us, as politicians, stay away from that, above all with our hands on our shoulders. Not like this morning in the AD immediately on the activist tour of: what would Wijnaldum van Zwarte Piet find? Let that be football and let Black Pete be something else. If children are being called names for Black Piet, then action must be taken against them. Very hard and very clear. Black Piet has nothing to do with racism and should certainly not be linked to it. The empty skulls that do that, as far as I'm concerned, are no better than anyone who screams for inclusiveness and diversity, because they have a binary tan obsession and only watch black and white TV. GroenLinks is part of that. Stop the call to make everything diverse. Let people be judged by their ability, by their performance, on their commitment, then color doesn't matter at all. I don't see the colors. I don't have anything to do with a color review. I do see a lot of left-wing Dutch people, I see people, also in the cabinet, on TV and in the newspapers with only a coloring mania. I see a former alderman from The Hague, Mr Baldewsingh, who, when he was alderman, called for the town hall to be unwound. Where does he get it from his racist head? Stop it. I call on the whole of the Netherlands to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mr De Graaf began so beautifully by abandoning racism and discrimination. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u61	That's how I ended up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u62	No, because three quarters of the Dutch people are sick of polarization and the brutality in society. What Mr De Graaf is doing here is throwing oil on the fire and fueling that polarization and brutality. We shouldn't do that. We should seek connection and dialogue. We should see how we can get past the polarization. It started out so nicely, but it ends up again with oil on the fire and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u63	No, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Van den Berge has stuck in his own interruption. He didn't listen to my answer. I have called on the whole of the Netherlands to stop this discrimination and racism, including those who want to unwarn the city hall, including those who say there should be a Black Achievement Month. Where's the White Achievement Month? I don't want him. Let's stop judging everything by color. That's what GroenLinks does. I'm not polarizing with this. It is GroenLinks, it is the cabinet, it is the media that polarize in that way, because they make everyone aware of their color. I have friends of all colors and I've never been aware of that. I have become aware of their colour because it is constantly imprinted on me via television and through politics. I'm so sick of it. Stop that racism, even from the other side. So my call isn't polarizing. No, I'm gonna end up in the middle nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I now turn to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three years ago, I drove home late at night. I was almost there when I heard some loud bangs. Oddly enough, I knew it wasn't fireworks, but it was gunshots. I saw a man jump into a white car and tear away his accomplice, who was already behind the wheel. They missed my car except for one hair. I couldn't remember the license plate, but unfortunately I didn't get a good look at the perps myself. I called 911, passed the license plate and ordered an ambulance. But the help came for the victim, who was bent over behind the wheel of his car, clearly too late. Only hours later, when I was safely in my bed a few meters away, I began to realize what had just happened. I had witnessed a liquidation, a reckoning, a murder. Just on my corner, in a quiet neighborhood. Of course that was intense to experience, and it's in my memory to this day. But I'm an adult. Can you see what an impact such an event has on a child who feels safe at his school in Amsterdam-Osdorp and sees the same thing happening from the school square, only a few months after I saw it on the other side of the city. We must never find this normal, and that is why we must do everything we can to combat this kind of crime. Organised drug crime is a billion-dollar business in our country. In the meantime, it is very clear to us that the leaders are no longer afraid of anything. Although the Netherlands has again become demonstrably safer in recent years and give people themselves to feel safer, this image and this feeling are very fragile. I think we all know that. Such terrible incidents ensure that the sense of security and the confidence that the government, the politics, we, are there to keep the people at home as safe as possible, are very vulnerable. The VVD also recognises the concern that our rule of law could lose it from organised crime. But the people at home have nothing to worry about. People want to see action from us. They want to see that we are determined to defend the rule of law at all times, so that not the scum is the boss in the streets, but we are with each other. Mr. Chairman. The approach to organised crime calls for a broad approach to the VVD and at the same time for a focus on three pillars: prevention, in short: how do we prevent small criminals from becoming big drug lords? This is why we are calling on the Commission and the Council to take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done in the interests of the citizens of the European Union and of the citizens of the European Union. I'd like to start with the first one: prevention. I have spoken recently with a great many experts, experts in care, youth care, education, police and justice and with journalists with knowledge of this matter. In fact, they all indicate the same thing: we live in a time when it is incredibly easy to make a lot of money very quickly, a time that is incomparable with a few years ago, precisely because of the large amounts of drugs in circulation and the huge amounts of money to be made. Experts may, for the first time in decades, indicate that they have a blind spot, a blind spot for young people who are recruited for drug jobs at a very young age. These young people are making a fast career in the criminal circuit. By the time they come into the picture at instances, it's actually way too late. So here we really need a thorough analysis and a firm commitment, both at individual level and at family and neighbourhood level. I have already indicated that I am very pleased that these ministers regard prevention as an indispensable link in this context. I would like to hear from the Minister for Legal Protection, who is also responsible for the policy on young people who are on the criminal path, how this analysis is being taken up and when we can expect more about it. Mr. Chairman. In the broad approach, the second pillar is repression and detection. In other words, the hard and effective taking of the scum that thinks we can use our country as their playground where they make the rules. We can, and we can never allow that. Mr. Chairman. I told you, I've been informed in detail lately about how best to deal with this problem. That was not only with Dutch experts but also with international experts. After all, and unfortunately for them, there are countries around us that have much more experience of organized crime than we do. In this way, I have been able to study the Italian anti-Mafia legislation. Soon I will be there to speak face to face with those who lead the battle there. But fortunately we don't have to wait for that, because they've already shared some good ideas with us. For example, in order to prevent drug lords from doing their business from prison and even directing murder squads, the Italians have set up a prison regime with severe restrictions on these criminals. They are isolated from the outside world and from fellow prisoners. As far as the VVD is concerned, such a regime is also urgently needed in the Netherlands. Earlier this year, we already saw that criminals from the prison could drive bombers outside the walls and organize escapes. These prisoners have smuggled in calls and other resources at their disposal and can continue their criminal activities. This has got to stop. In the Netherlands, too, drug lords have to end up in a strict regime. Minister Dekker has already responded positively to this bill. On this proposal, I must say, it is not yet a law. I ask him at what time he expects this to work out. When can it be entered? As far as the VVD is concerned, this is better today than tomorrow. Well, that's for sure. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to point out that it is extremely important that we show and ensure that crime does not pay off. It's starting on the street. The VVD is a strong supporter of the Rotterdam patser approach. The phenomenon is not new. Cities like Amsterdam used to know it, but Rotterdam is one of the few municipalities that persevere and persevere. So I would like to take an example. This approach is aimed at confiscating items obtained with criminal money. Why don't you explain how you got that fancy bin? If you can't do that, you're gonna lose him. Take those status symbols away. Take those criminal role models. This must, of course, go hand in hand with the establishment of effective prevention programmes, which I have just mentioned. You can't try to keep young people on the right track when they see on the other hand that peers with criminal money can buy the world. Then such a job at the Albert Heijn becomes a lot less interesting and the step towards crime is made very quickly. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is an excellent example of how you show on the street that we are the boss, not the criminals. I would like to call on the ministers to engage with the regional mayors and the national police and to encourage the deployment of this instrument throughout the country. I would like to make a commitment on this, and later, if those talks have taken place, a feedback. Mr. Chairman. I suggest I finish my block. I have one more paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u66	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u67	'Cause it's a continuation of this. Then, of course, it is also the question of what you do with the goods that you confiscate. As far as the VVD is concerned, as much as possible goes back into the community. Take it from the criminals and give it to the people in the vulnerable neighborhoods who are the victims of these people. Whether it's a property, a car or clothes, give it back. I would like a response from the Minister to how we can shape this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u68	I was a little afraid of this. I am really, honestly, trying to take all the plans and proposals from the VVD seriously, about how we can better deal with organised crime. But I still feel like I'm sitting here listening to the pyromaniac who offers to put out. Because hasn't it been the VVD that has been in charge of this Ministry of Justice and Security since 2010? Hasn't it been the VVD that, alternately with the CDA, has been supplying the Minister of Justice since 1966? So can the VVD today acknowledge that organized crime has ended and that there has been far too much cutting back on the police? Meanwhile, the mayors are screaming murder and fire. Cops can barely get into their neighborhoods to do their job. There are major problems caused by the VVD. Can the VVD be honest about that, too? Because only if you're honest about that can we take the proposals of the VVD seriously again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u69	I am very proud that the VVD, together with other parties, is taking responsibility, by controlling and by taking on these heavy tasks. A lot's happened, too. I am also standing here for everything that I think can be done even better and to say: as far as I am concerned, it can be done even better in this way. I would therefore rather expect support from the SP for an even more effective approach to crime rather than turning it into a Hague game. I come here with concrete proposals, so go into them, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u70	Mrs Yeşilgöz now calls it a "Hague game"...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u71	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u72	...but I find it sad not to show any trace of reflection. Because if you don't acknowledge what you've done wrong in the past and what you're co-responsible for, which is a huge shortage of police capacity... We see what's going on. Mayors, for example, knock on our door every day to say that something must be done. And then there's gonna be all kinds of plans. I said I'm taking the plans very seriously. But I also expect the VVD to be honest. I was hoping to be surprised. I had hoped that the VVD would be honest for once and would say: we have made big mistakes in the past, because there has been far too much cutting back on the police. The Minister himself said last week in a debate: what you broke down in one year will take up to four years to rebuild. That should concern the VVD. I take everything seriously, but I also want the VVD to look in the mirror once. And actually, it would be appropriate to apologize to all the mayors who feel abandoned, to all the cops who can't do their job properly and to all the people who have been hurt by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u73	We also had this debate last week. At that time I also said that I am very pleased that this cabinet is investing hundreds of millions in tackling undermining and investing hundreds of millions in strengthening the police. I also said that we should learn lessons from the past few years, where things have not gone well. So we can deal with this again in detail here, but what we can do is to come up with concrete measures and concrete proposals to ensure that we tackle the scum and ensure that the Dutch are safe at home. That's what the VVD has stood for all these years, and that's what I'm standing for now. And I still have a number of pages to go with concrete proposals, so I am looking forward to the fact that the parties on the left also deal with this in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u74	I think we can do both. I think the SP is just right about the previous period, but I am also very happy that the VVD continues with this period. In the end, that's also important. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius says: I want to go to Italy. We were in Italy last weekend. There was also a colleague of the VVD. We've heard some interesting things there. We talked to the mayor there in Palermo. He said you shouldn't just give it back to society. You really have to do that very well in an organization that can indicate exactly where it lands and where that makes the difference. Is that what the VVD means? 'Cause I'm a little worried that if we're gonna do it too fast, we're not gonna really show society that crime doesn't pay and stay on the right side of it. Is that what we're gonna do? Is she gonna look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u75	Thank you for this question. Yeah, sure. We have a proposal of our own, but I can imagine the cabinet saying: let us roll this out. That's why I'm asking the question right now. In addition to Italy, there are other countries in Europe that are doing this. And it is exactly as Mrs Van Toorenburg says: you have to give it back in a targeted way, especially to those young people and to those communities. Because then you can show that crime doesn't pay off. It pays to stay on the right path. In this way, you strengthen the communities and the environment. So I think this is a valuable question. This is exactly how we are in it. I hope that the cabinet will take it this way, and otherwise I would like very much to present the proposal that the VVD has been prepared with the CDA, so that we can roll it out as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u76	This is your third question, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u77	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I think that the VVD is getting over the past very easily. This has little to do with games in The Hague, but this has to do with the confidence that we want to give as a policy to the police and to municipalities. It was not so long ago that Chief Constable Akerboom said: "We cannot plan on that fickle policy of: then police again, then police again off. You don't just open a can of cops." So I think we should learn from the past. So I'd like to challenge the VVD once again to do that and to admit here just cavalierly: "Yes, we've made mistakes. We may not have done it this way, and in the future we will do it differently." I'd like to hear that, instead of just talking about future plans and balloons here, and not looking back. And that has nothing to do with The Hague games, but that has to do with giving trust to municipalities and the police that we are now dealing with structural measures and structural policies. So I'd like to give her another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u78	Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u79	With regard to Mr Akerboom's appeal, I have said in several places, both in this Chamber and outside, that we should certainly be interested as politicians. I'm just a little disappointed that GroenLinks doesn't use his last interruption to go into the content of the many proposals I made to say: okay, we can do this even more now to make the Netherlands safer and make the Dutch safer. GroenLinks just wants to put a repeat of it and I don't know how to finger it. Mr Akerboom says, and I have heard Mrs Helder say more often: 'Be very attentive to what you do, because you don't just open a can of cops'. That's what I cared about; that's what I said. We are investing heavily in the police and tackling undermining again. I now come up with concrete ideas on how to shape this. I wish we could talk about how to make it safer for the Dutch in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u80	Is it perhaps an idea to move on first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u81	Yeah, I'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u82	Well, one more time, Mr. Chairman. My fourth question. That's not my last, unlike what Mrs Yeşilgöz said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u83	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u84	It wasn't my last, but it was my fourth. I will discuss in detail the future plans of GroenLinks and other parties in my own contribution, but I think it is important to give that trust to the police, mayors and aldermen now, to show that we have learned from the past, that we are going to do things differently in the future, and that we are not just saying that we need to recruit additional agents now, in this budget. I think that is really fundamental, because otherwise we will give little confidence. Then today we say that we think it's important and we occasionally pull out 100 million for it, but what in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u85	You give confidence by taking responsibility, as the cabinet does. You pass on confidence, as at the beginning of the cabinet period, to pay extra money to invest in security. You also pass on confidence, when it says in the newspaper that there are abuses, not to stand in line here to say "look, our police discriminate and are no good" and you name it, as I often hear from the left, but by saying: we are behind our agents. We have to pass laws here to make sure we stand by our agents. In this way, by filling in those words, give you confidence; you don't do that by playing games in The Hague. Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u86	I'd be fine with that. Otherwise, Mr. Van Ojik has nothing more to ask for. I'm keeping an eye on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u87	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's also about the money taken from criminals, not just the stuff, but also the money. The VVD wants two things to do here. Firstly, I would like the Minister, also following Italian example, to examine how we can take away more of criminals and not only of them, but also of their relatives, for example, as they do in Italy in the anti-Mafia legislation. I would like a commitment that we can return to that in order to discuss the substance of this matter with each other. The VVD, like most of my colleagues here, has also wanted to say for years now that the funds that are being taken away can be used again to deal with more criminals. Mr Krol and I kept our research efforts on this subject at the Minister's request a while ago. I do not see much movement in the cabinet, so I can easily imagine that Mr Krol will come back to this and that this motion will still be tabled. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to the third pillar: disrupting, tackling and undermining the earning model of the criminals. Every penny earned from drugs, fraud, trafficking in human beings or theft will sooner or later be returned to our money traffic. There are billions of laundering. In this way, the underworld is increasingly interwoven with our world. The Rutte II and III Cabinets have done an incredible deal to combat money laundering and tax evasion. More is being maintained, the rules for financial institutions have been tightened up, there will be a little more capacity for investigation agencies, we will tackle criminal use of cryptocurrency, such as bitcoin, and shortcuts for tax evasion or money laundering will be cut off. There will be stricter rules for trust offices, more European cooperation and a blacklist of tax havens has been agreed. But much more really needs to be done. Analysis after analysis shows that we only touch the tip of the iceberg of criminal money; under water there is still a whole mountain. I therefore expect even more from the cabinet. In June of this year, colleague Roald van der Linde already presented a ten-point plan to tackle money laundering. In the cabinet response, however, some of the problems identified by my colleague seemed to be almost waving away. There's gotta be another way. I have asked earlier and will do so again: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the points in the plan? These are urgent matters. Look, for example, at the first point in Mr Van der Linde's list: we want those who knowingly take a walk with the anti-money laundering regime and pay too little structural attention to compliance, not only to be able to lose their licence more quickly, but also to be able to prosecute more quickly. Those concerned must be punished more severely. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u88	Good points of the VVD for tackling money laundering. I will go into that in my own contribution in a moment. In the context of tackling undermining, a pilot has been launched over the past year to tackle money laundering and to detect exploitation through money flows. That's a successful method. I know the investigators would like a follow-up to that pilot. Is the VVD willing to go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u89	This is probably also a demand for resources. If you continue a pilot, that could cost money. Is that the question that I am being asked: are we prepared to make money available for it? Let me put it this way. Maybe that'll give me a good answer. Anything that works, anything that's gonna make us take criminal money, take down the earning model of criminals, you've got the VVD by your side. We have to look at all these programs and pilots to see what works best and where we find each other. But when it comes to content, as long as we take down the earning model of criminals, we're buddies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. Criminals have billions of euros. And frankly, we can never match that. But if you're not strong, you have to be smart. That means making smart laws and rules that work for us and protect us. And that also means that we are alert to the fact that our laws and rules do not protect the criminals. And then I really get to the point you have heard me about in every debate so far. I talk to people who fight organized crime every day. I talk to people who try to resist every day, watching whole neighborhoods and shopping streets go into the hands of criminals. Everyone I speak to indicates that it is not possible to exchange information because of all the rules and legislation that we have imposed on ourselves that is restrictive in tackling organised crime. Whether it's money laundering, fraud or other criminal transactions, we all know by now that if you really want to be able to tackle organised crime, if you really want to be able to disrupt the income model, you need to be able to follow the money. You have to follow the money until you get to the top and deal with the drug lords. And we can only do that if we can effectively share information. This may mean that we need to work much better at European level to tackle money laundering, which is, of course, cross-border, or that we need to give our mayors, the police, but also, for example, the Tax Administration and entrepreneurs, tools to share information that they have. For example, we have a very specific offer of notaries, who say that they cannot fully fulfil their role in serving the public interest by ensuring the integrity of the legal system, precisely because they do not have sufficient powers. I'd like a response to that. Apart from this example, I now hear debate after the Minister's debate that information can simply be shared. So what is wrong with all the complaints we get about this? How can we in practice share that information without being flagged back by the judge? I would like to ask the Minister to put this on paper, otherwise we will have a well-being situation here all the time. We are told that information cannot be shared, while the Minister says that it can be shared. It's just not going well! Mr. Chairman. I told you, we'll never be able to match the billions of criminals. Fortunately, however, there is investment in tackling organised crime. Recently... I see that Mr Van der Staaij wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u92	Perhaps you'd like to finish the piece first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u93	Yes. Recently, this cabinet released another 110 million. The Minister indicated that he would come forward with a proposal in the spring on the precise implementation and approach. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is a thorough analysis underneath. In every question I have about an analysis, the Minister refers to the fact that he cannot say anything about an individual case. But of course it is impossible to ignore the fact that we are dealing with the murder of the brother of a key witness, the key witness who withdraws, the key witness's attorney who is being murdered and the prime suspect who is believed to be protected by Iran and Dubai. There has been an attack on a lawyer very recently and there are dozens of people who no longer serve our rule of law and therefore need to be protected. If we invest extra money in the approach, which I strongly support, then I also want to know with what story, with which analysis we do it. Where did it all go wrong and how should it be better? Did the D.A. drop it, too? These seem pretty logical questions to me. That is why it is quite extraordinary that I have not been able to get an answer to this question for months. So I'm just going to go back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u94	At the point of sharing information. As Mrs Yeşilgöz said, I will come back to it, I will come back to it every time. I feel the same way. I also feel that we have little progress on this issue. Mrs Yeşilgöz asks the government to put back on paper what is actually possible. But couldn't it be a little sharper by saying: can you indicate how you are going to get what can be done according to the letter of the law actually happens in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u95	That would be a very logical question. I'm just afraid of the answer, because then I get to hear: there's going to be a model protocol. That's what we discussed last week in an AO. For example, the UNG states that this is not what we are asking for. So I actually want to see on paper: these are the problems that mayors, entrepreneurs and all kinds of agencies face, and this is the space for that. I'm afraid we'll get model protocols differently. That's also in the pieces: this is going to happen in the next few months and if it doesn't work, we're going to look again. I am afraid that Mr Van der Staaij and I will be discussing this again in six months' time. That's what I wanted to avoid with this question. But I am happy to add this question for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u96	I would like to look with you, because if a protocol doesn't help, it is the question whether a letter from the Minister stating what helps or is Columbus' egg. You hear it back in practice every time. Then you put back, from work visits and whatever, in the vein of: it's possible. Meanwhile, sometimes you don't see that change in culture happening as you wish. So if we are still asking the government clearly how we can really take steps in this respect, I wholeheartedly support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u97	Maybe I can add something to that. If we do not have the idea that we are getting enough answers or that we have sufficient control over them, I say: we have not, of course, been idle on this point either. From the field we hear that people say: then create experimental space, in which we can then share that information. That's a very official term and I'm looking for something better, but I don't have it yet. Months ago, during my first debate as a spokesperson, I asked about that experiment room. That wasn't necessary, the cabinet found. I can imagine that if we keep this feeling and continue to hear from the practice that this works, we can imagine that experiment space ourselves. Maybe we can hang out with the SGP. As I said, after the murder of attorney Wiersum, the personal security of a large number of people has intensified. A lot of cops have been transferred to this kind of security for that. Of course, we want these women and men back on the streets as soon as possible, to their police work. Hopefully that will be possible now that 10 million extra has been released for monitoring and securing the system. I'm assuming that to a large extent the police are supported by this. I'd like to know from the Minister how long it'll take for all the agents who have gone away to get back on the streets. I would also like to mention the support that our agents on the street need from us. For years, we've been pleading for tasers to help cops. This year, we finally made 30 million available for this. I read that it is still years before the tasers can be used actively and I would like to ask the Minister why this cannot be done faster. Maybe he needs something from us to get it done faster. Furthermore, a number of good steps have already been taken by the Cabinet to better anchor in the law that we stand firmly behind our agents and aid workers and that we stand firmly behind our rule of law. For example, the VVD welcomes the fact that there is now at last a public service ban on violence against aid workers, that agents using violence do not immediately become suspects and that the automatism that a convicted person is already paroled after two thirds of his sentence is abolished. If we are to be able to live together freely and safely in our country, it is crucial that we continue to fight against racism, discrimination and anti-Semitism at all times. Being safe is so fundamental and at the same time so many people are not self-evident. Together with the Christian Union, we have submitted an initiative paper on anti-Semitism. I am very pleased that we have also been able to make funds available for this. I think Mr Van der Graaf will deal with this later. There is still a need for extra attention to be paid to the security of the IBT community. The Minister promised me months ago a concrete elaboration of the action plan against lhbt violence. There was a lack of action in the action plan and the Minister would come back to it. I would like to ask the Minister: where are the actions? In May, a motion of the VVD was adopted, with the support of almost the entire Chamber, to come forward with a legislative proposal to put an end to so-called homogeneity. What's my surprise? We recently received a letter from the Minister stating that he will first find out and examine whether this is necessary. I think there is a clear statement from the Chamber that this is necessary. That it is necessary to anchor that in our country everyone must be free to be and love who he or she wants. So I'd like to know from the Minister when he's going to carry out this motion. Then I come to the issue of terrorism. We have had a recent debate on this, and I shall unfortunately repeat it here and there, but I cannot do much else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u98	I was a little behind. Maybe that's because I'm not very good at math. That's my handicap. The VVD states that with 10 million you can repair the damage of all the people that are now being pulled away from security. If I do the math, and then I do it generously, I come out at about 150 people. I know that in Rotterdam alone 500 people are being pulled away for additional security tasks. That's what Mayor Aboutaleb writes today. Then 10 million dollars can never be enough, even though in itself it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u99	I think that's a good question for the cabinet. I said in my text that I hope so. Of course, I am also asking how that will work out in a moment. Does this mean all those cops can go back? Perhaps we can wait for the Minister's answer first, so that we know exactly how many agents it is and what it means. I have expressed my hope and wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u100	And the question as to whether Mrs. Kuik's calculation is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u101	Mr. Chairman. The threat of return of jihadists, men and women, has not been averted. So I must once again draw attention to the victims of the atrocities of ISIS people who are now whining through all the media that they want to come back because their dream of the caliphate has failed. These are people who have deliberately travelled to Syria to commit themselves to a struggle aimed at destroying everything we stand for here in this house and beyond. We all know by now the terrible stories about the murders, the massacres, attacks and systematic rapes. In last week's debate, I started with a quote from a victim. I can say now: the more you read about this, the more you talk to victims, the more you hear these stories and see them in your nightmares. And I haven't even seen it. I cannot imagine how bad it must be for the people who have experienced these atrocities or have families in areas where they are still committed. Then I cannot help thinking that our newspapers are full of articles by scientists, politicians and opinion-maker who want to show how pathetic the jihadists are, so the perpetrators of the atrocities. No room for pity on my side. I want to prevent these war criminals from returning to our country at all risks. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are doing everything we can to prevent them from returning to the Netherlands and also to the rest of the Schengen area. Although we have received several laws by the Chamber, think of the Revocation of the Netherlands Act in the interests of social security and the criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory. For example, the Minister of Justice and Security indicated in the reply to written questions from VVD and CDA of 22 July that where possible the D.A. is using criminal prosecution. Where this is not possible or not appropriate, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship may be a measure which is necessary in the interests of the protection of national security. Mr. Chairman. This surprises me. Indeed, we have already passed a law in the Chamber in 2016 which explicitly states the opposite. We have agreed that it is difficult to wait for the Dutch to withdraw until the person concerned has returned to our country and has been prosecuted and convicted, precisely because of the immediate threat to national security. I have said before that I would like to see the Minister not hiding behind the prosecutor who attaches more importance to trial in the Netherlands than to the withdrawal of Dutch nationality. So I am once again asking whether the Minister would like to come forward with an urgent legislative amendment to amend this. Mr. Chairman. There are more ways to keep us safe and prevent these people from coming here. We would like to see unfamiliar travellers of Dutch nationality who reach a consulate not given consular assistance to return but transferred to the local authorities. After all, there is a policy space to redesign this. We received a report last night that two jihadists have come to the Netherlands. I have a lot of questions about that. I think we're going to talk about that, too. We will also ask written questions. Now, here's what I'd like to know. There's a woman with one nationality. Her Dutch nationality has been revoked. I understand that she is only Moroccan. We assume that this woman will be deported to Morocco as soon as possible. I'd like a reaction to that. The other woman still has two nationalities. I would like confirmation that everything is being done to withdraw her Dutch nationality. I would also like to know what else is going to happen to that. Mr. Chairman. Preventing jihadists from returning is just one part of the story. These people must, of course, pay for their horrible deeds, where they have committed their vile crimes. You know, because I also said this last time: if necessary, the VVD is prepared to release some conditions previously set by the Netherlands. That is how important we consider local trial to be. I suspect I'll be interrupted on this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u102	Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've heard the VVD a lot about this lately. And I know what the VVD doesn't want. The VVD does not want those people, the IS fighter who committed terrible acts, to come to the Netherlands. That's clear. Then the VVD says: yes, trial locally or through a tribunal is the solution. But the VVD also knows that in real life this does not happen in practice. This means that the alternative offered by the VVD does not exist. That means that those people, those IS-warriors, if they can escape from those camps, then whatever happened, they are going to walk around there and so they can return to the place where they came from in an uncontrolled way, so also to the Netherlands. I never hear the VVD talking about that clearly. So I would like to hear from Mrs Yeşilgöz what the VVD solution is, knowing that there will be no local trial. So let them stop playing hide-and-seek and let them be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u104	Firstly, it is pure nonsense that this local trial will not take place. At the moment, the cabinet is still in talks with other European countries, which have as much interest as we do. In fact, they have an even greater interest in it, because it involves thousands of extravagants. The cabinet is still in talks with European countries and the Iraqis to see how it can be done. The Iraqis say, "We'd be happy to enter into the conversation with you," but then you have to respect our own legal system. I'll give you that right here. We have tried for a long time to convince the Iraqis that they are abandoning the death penalty system. As far as the VVD is concerned, we continue to do so. But I think that local trial is so important that when the Iraqis refuse to do so, the discussion should be about that. At D66 they say: I think my own world in which I believe is much more important, so let these people come here and then we'll see if we can bring them to justice here. After at best a few years in prison, they can walk around here freely. I can't reach that. And, Mr President, I would like to add one more thing. I got the question: what exactly does the VVD do? Well, we have laid down numerous laws and motions here, which D66 was constantly opposed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u105	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u106	With these laws and motions, we wanted to prevent them from returning. And we wanted to make sure that if they already return, we can take them harder here. Take the Revocation of the Dutch Federation Act in the interest of national security. Take the motion on criminalising voluntary residence on terrorist territory. Take the motion on the detention of returners. Or take the motion on the inventory of existing possibilities of pre-trial detention for returners. I can go on until you get angry, Mr. Chairman. These are all kinds of laws and motions about which D66 says, uh, don't. And then come here and ask a few questions? But what does the VVD do? Why don't you just vote with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u107	Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u108	I only have six interruptions, and I have to share them with my colleague, Mr Groothuizen. So I won't be tempted to post a second interruption now. But I will come to Mrs Yeşilgöz with another point later. And I would also very much like to explain why we have not agreed to all kinds of anti-legal proposals from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u109	Okay. Then this also counts as a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u110	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u111	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u112	Well, chairman, and it counts, and it was just a very embarrassing reaction. Let's be honest. Here I get the specific question: what does the VVD do? My list is much longer than what I've been able to list here. We're gonna be here for a while today, so I'd be more than happy to list the list. There are all kinds of laws and motions. D66 says about that: well, we're going to philosophize, but we're against it. And then we have the situation that we don't want these people here, that we want to try them there and that on all sides it's being countered and stopped by parties that... Mr President, you know my opinion on D66. On the one hand, on the other hand, let's have another cappuccino and we'll take another look at it. In the meantime, there are some very dangerous situations ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u113	Mr Verhoeven is walking out of the Chamber. He's gonna have a cappuccino.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u114	Of course, that's the best solution to keep Dutch people safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u115	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u116	How cozy it is between the coalition groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u117	We're not here for cosiness, but we're here to keep Dutch people safe. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u118	Well, I was just about to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u119	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u120	Great, yeah. Well, I didn't know I poked so hard. This is still not a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u121	Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u122	I'm going to ask the first question now. Let me help the VVD a little bit. Mrs Yeşilgöz speaks harshly. It's like "PVV second best." But the solution that the VVD seems to want is a solution whereby international treaties have to be denounced and the borders closed, because then we can keep the Netherlands safe. In fact, there is no other beginning of that solution. My question to Mrs Yeşilgöz is: is Mrs Yeşilgöz, is the VVD prepared to cooperate in this solution? Because I have to stick to one interruption, I say in conclusion: if that is not the case or if it is not possible within the cabinet, then we have to deal with the head of the VVD again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u123	We discussed this at length two weeks ago during the debate on how to prevent jihadists from returning. Fortunately, at the moment in the Schengen area, it is very clear who the authorised travellers are. Their passports have been spotted and every effort is being made to prevent these people from entering the Schengen area. So the meaning of the question of how we ensure that our borders are secure has even been addressed. That happens and the cabinet is in charge of that. It is in discussion with all Schengen countries. And why is that so important? Because, of course, because of the fact that the PVV has a point, there are countries around us that do not even have proper anti-terrorism legislation, but that do have to do with dozens of hundreds or thousands of extra-terrorists. That is precisely why this point is so important and it is already being done. I come up with concrete motions on how we can even better shape this. I think I already have the PVV's support, so that's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u125	Mr President, I will conclude. In order to prevent jihadists from trying to reach our country via the flow of asylum, that could have been just another interruption, we need to keep a grip on who enters our country. Mr President, I would very much like to give the floor to my colleague Bente Becker. Oh, it was such a nice transition, but yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u126	Yes, and I thought I'd give Mrs Becker the floor. First, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u127	I'm sorry to ruin Mrs Yeşilgöz' beautiful transition, but I have a few more questions. The VVD says we have to be strict with criminals and legislation must not help criminals. I agree with that, but I would like to add something: missing legislation cannot help criminals either, and you are doing so now. I want to know how the VVD feels about that. I have one specific example that I would like to mention in my contribution: dog fights. A number of people were convicted last month for organizing dog fights. That gang was shut down in 2016 and has now been convicted. But right after they're rolled up, the organizers bought new dogs, because there's no restraining order yet. That's been in the pipeline for a year and a half, but nothing's happening. Does the VVD agree with me that it really needs to be done quickly to avoid playing into the hands of these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u128	I didn't quite see this one coming. I am a huge fan of dogs and of caring for dogs. I would like to look forward to the proposal of the Party for Animals, so that I can look into exactly what the proposal means and why it has apparently been stalling for so long. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u129	Okay. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u130	But we share the love of animals!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u131	But that's not the point. It's about dog fights now. Does the VVD agree with me that the lack of legislation should not harm criminals either?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u132	Of course, I agree with that last part of that statement. The point is that our rules and legislation must serve us, the people on the streets who make the most of it every day. They must benefit from it and they must be protected. We shouldn't protect criminals, like I said. If the Animal Party says, "We have something here that makes it clear that criminals are being helped by the lack of legislation," then we are looking at it together. But if you ask me about this particular example, I have to look into it. Luckily, we have two days left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u133	That's good. Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u134	Mr Yeşilgöz argued against the justified interruptions of my colleagues by saying: we take responsibility. But taking responsibility also means keeping your back straight. That also means keeping your back straight where Brussels is concerned. When we were driven out of the Catshuis, Prime Minister Rutte wanted so quickly that little party of us decimated, that he bowed to Brussels and cut as much as 50 billion, of which 500 million ended up in the police. You won't fix that hole. It'll take years if it works. We're standing by those debris now. I have waited for the whole speech and I hear that Mrs Yeşilgöz wants more tasks, namely the patronage approach and the drug baron approach, whether they are in the country or abroad. But the bottom line is you need the police to do that. Mrs Yeşilgöz is so eager to take responsibility. This is her chance. What are the tasks of the police in order to realize their proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u135	I don't think anyone's been chased anywhere. I don't think the calimero behavior fits very well with the tourist office either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u136	That's the PVV merger party and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u137	It's about taking responsibility and whether you're willing to make difficult decisions. I'll leave that on both D66 and PVV. I think Mrs Helder is also referring, for example, to the letter we received from Mayor Aboutaleb. At least I thought it was intense myself. The mayor states that he is stuck and that he can no longer have some tasks carried out by the police. I'm sure the Minister will go into that in a moment. Fortunately, extra money is now being released. I agree with Mrs Helder immediately when we say that we need to do more and we need to do even better. I also come up with suggestions for this, but money is being released. Let's not pretend we're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u138	Speaking of calimero behavior, this is just really avoiding the question. I'm not talking about incidental amounts. That is where the problem lies: structural money is involved. You can't hire a man for an occasional tip. Mrs Yeşilgöz wants a patsy approach. Is that even allowed to last a year? Yeah, well, maybe you'll come out with that $10 million in a city like Rotterdam. But that's not how it works. We also saw the mayor of Enschede yesterday. Everyone gets that footage and everyone gets those letters. He said it's just dividing scarcity. He was almost tired. Speaking of calimero behavior. Mrs Yeşilgöz has to introduce herself to the Minister: we would very much like to have the patronage approach; then there should be a little less name but which subject. 'Cause this isn't gonna do any good to the cop on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u139	The idea to roll out the hotshot approach nationwide is based on my conversations with cops on the street. They say: I see things happening and I cannot respond to them; I need those powers, instruments and possibilities. But that aside. Mrs Helder has been saying for a long time that I have to say to her that structural resources are needed, because tackling undermining and tackling crime is a long-term issue. I agree with her. I have said before that I am glad that at least occasionally money has now been released. The Minister has fought to clear it. I also hope that the next round will include longer-term payments. Mrs Helder has been asking for this for a long time. She's just got a point there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u140	On the one hand, of course, I had a nice cappuccino, but on the other hand, I would like to ask Mrs Yeşilgöz a question. It's not about the previous subject, it's about facial recognition. Today, or last night, we received a rather nuanced and considered letter from the cabinet. I was very pleased with that; I will say something about facial recognition in my own contribution. But yesterday I read a comment from the VVD, which was actually as I know the VVD: blinders up and permeate but; don't think too much, just go. It said that we do not have to impose any framework or limitation on facial recognition, because then we might be able to catch a few more bad guys, apart from all the legal problems in the field of privacy and possible discrimination, because the technology is not yet ready. I would like to know from Mrs Yeşilgöz: where is the VVD on limiting facial recognition for civil rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u141	That's how I know Mr Verhoeven. I think he overlooked the first part of the VVD reaction. It's possible. We have said that there must of course be good regulation, as we are used to in the Netherlands and as we already have it for, for example, other forms of camera surveillance. It's always about whether we're protecting the right people and whether we're focusing on dealing with the wrong types, as I'm just saying. What the VVD absolutely doesn't recognize is that D66 wants to paint an image here that we're dealing with Chinese scenes, where the government can follow exactly what you ate yesterday, what you're going to buy today and you name it. And then to say, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Our rules will ensure that we avoid that, but I think it's okay if we look at it again. The fact is that if we put a brake on it now, so I have read the D66 proposal, supported by the CDA, it means that you will then again bind your hands behind your back when it comes to tackling terrorists, people we do not want in the Schengen area and drug lords. I'm sorry, but the VVD will never go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u142	Mr Azarkan, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u143	The fifth, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u144	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just before the interruptions started at the end of the speech, something was said about migration. Now I heard Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius at WNL, which is a somewhat right-wing broadcaster, where everything is claimed to be claiming that asylum seekers' centres and reception are full of refugees from safe countries and especially from Morocco. What makes her say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u146	There you immediately see the difference between DENK and the VVD. Those aren't refugees. Those are people who come here from so-called safe countries, who say they are refugees and then become executed illegals because they come from safe countries that you do not flee. They have so little to lose here that they're responsible for crime here. It's incredibly hard to deal with them. My colleague Bente Becker will discuss this later. That is a big problem and we are not going to trivialize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u147	That sounds very good, but it also sounds a bit like chicken politics, to characterise it like that. My question was clear: why does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius say that these are refugee centres full of people from Morocco? When I look at the figures, I see that 4% comes from Morocco. However, it raises the image of a large number of people coming from safe countries, thus reducing support for asylum seekers. They are people from Syria, Iran, Nigeria. Why does she misrepresent things? It all sounds really tough... very tough language: we're going to do this and we're this and we're sister... but why not just look at the facts? Why give a misrepresentation of things?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u148	Let us indeed look at the facts. I would like to invite Mr Azarkan to come to Amsterdam and then talk to the victims of these so-called safe people who are responsible for an incredible amount of crime. Come with me to the Amsterdam police. I don't know how much capacity to get rid of this, although she wants to catch drug lords and stand up for Dutch people who need her. These are people who are coming here and taking advantage of our facilities intended for recognised refugees who need us because of the atrocities I have just mentioned. But these are people who take advantage of the system. I find it shocking that a party like DENK says: I'm going to stand up for that, that's a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u149	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. No, Mr. Azarkan. We've agreed on the number of interruptions. You're over it a long time ago. I give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I would like to point out that in my view the correct figures are that 70% to 80% of the asylum influx is ultimately about people who are not entitled to asylum. That is in the direction of Mr Azarkan. Mr. Chairman. Despite a decline in influx into Europe, asylum influx into the Netherlands is increasing again. As I said a moment ago, 70% of this influx into the Netherlands turns out to have no right to asylum. Just yesterday in the news: a coach full of Moldovans is coming to our country. I then immediately wonder whether in the vicinity of Ter Apel, where they are then taken, there is an active detection on vehicles that bring people there. I understand this in the case of a coach the driver is being detained, but should it not really be a standard policy to monitor all vehicles that people come to bring, to trace their origins and to be able to roll up these types of human trafficking immediately? That is a small question in response to this current news. Mr. Chairman. What does this actually show? That our asylum system is outdated. There's too many safe people coming here without a right to asylum. Too few of them we can actually send back to the country of origin. That can't even happen if they cause trouble. And no, too often they don't show criminal behavior. In Amsterdam, in Ter Apel, in Harderwijk and in other places in the country, the police now have their hands full. If you read that the cabinet must look for new shelters because of an increased influx, I know that there are other reasons, to say the least, that is frustrating. That is why the VVD has been advocating for years a completely new system in which people can receive shelter not here, but in the region. Because if there isn't a window here, there's no sucking effect for people who want to take advantage of our hospitality. And we reduce the chance that unwanted criminals, such as IS fighters, will be able to reach our country through the asylum influx. In addition, people who do have the right to asylum can get the best form of assistance close to home and come to Europe optionally on invitation to relieve the burden on the region. Hopefully the investigation of the outdated UN Refugee Treaty will bring us a step closer to this. The cabinet is currently working on this; I believe that Mr Donner is investigating it. But we also need to be real: it is not that yet. That vision of the VVD is not yet a reality. In the meantime, what are we supposed to do about the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u151	That vision of the VVD is indeed not yet a reality. That is true, I think, for more images of the VVD that are passing by today. What does the VVD have to do to make this wishful thinking a reality? When we were with the Parliamentary Committee in Tunisia a year ago, we asked the question: how do you feel about signing a migration agreement with us? Then we were pretty much laughed out of the room because they said: we're really not going to solve your problem, and certainly not for free. My specific question to Mrs Becker is what she is willing to do about this. How much of a billion dollars are you willing to pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u152	In a moment I will come up with a comprehensive view on our vision of the conclusion of migration agreements. I think that the cabinet should use different means, also according to the principle of'more for more and less for less'. That means, what do you have to offer a country? But also: how can you tell a country a mirror when it comes, for example, to providing visas and giving help? We may also have to stop doing this if countries are not prepared to cooperate with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u153	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u154	Mr. Chairman. What should we do about the VVD in the meantime? Firstly, to ensure that procedures are speeded up and that they do not offer vain hope at the end. It is therefore a good thing that we have abolished the children's pardon and removed the discretionary power. This is partly in line with the recommendations of the Van Zwol Committee. There must be no hope that training will have an effect. The same goes for lying. In that context, I do have the question of what the Secretary of State can do against what we recently saw in the news about a group of underage Chinese. According to Reporter, in the past they have given up a younger age and sometimes a false name to qualify for the general pardon. They now come back to municipalities and want to pass on a new name in order to be eligible for family reunification, for example. Can the Secretary of State ensure that this kind of identity fraud does not lapse, so that criminal prosecution can always take place? Can it at least prevent these people from ever becoming Dutch? Can she also have contact with the municipalities where these people are currently appearing at the front desk? Mr. Chairman. Asylum seekers need to know what they're up to quickly, so that they can quickly... I can see that I have six minutes left, Mr President, but I assume that this is not true. Oh, okay, I got more. Then I'm gonna talk quietly again. Asylum seekers need to know where they stand quickly so that they can get to work quickly with language and work if they are actually entitled to asylum, but so that they can leave quickly if they are not. It is therefore good that this cabinet has made extra money available to the IND, but also that the Secretary of State will now look more closely at the processes at the IND. These lead times need to be speeded up, but it also needs to be careful. Previously, we were concerned that the IND would not have withdrawn permits from criminal status holders because of the workload, which it could have. If that were the case, it would be unacceptable. We must have the guarantee that such a thing will never be dealt with under pressure from time to time. As far as the VVD is concerned, the figures for the number of withdrawn permits of criminal aliens are increasing. This has been extended by Secretary of State Dijkhoff for a reason so that we can do it faster, and it must actually be done. Can the Secretary of State identify and eliminate the possible legal obstacles that the De Leeuw Committee is writing about? We also need to be sure that applications for licences are subject to a rigorous assessment for an indefinite period of time, despite working pressure and despite time constraints. Should Syria not be safe enough by 2020 according to the new post, the VVD wants the guarantee that the files of Syrians who request a permanent residence permit will be looked at very carefully: do the permit conditions still apply, will the integration requirements be met? Can the Secretary of State undertake that care of the IND and also take part in her investigation? As easy as the permits were granted at the time, the examination of applications for renewal or applications for renewal for an indefinite period must be carried out as carefully as possible. This also means once again checking identity and nationality in all cases. The VVD is also eagerly awaiting the results of the re-evaluation of all Syrian dossiers, as promised. Is the planning still spring 2020? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the results are known before the renewal applications are submitted? Then the second thing that should happen in the meantime as far as the VVD is concerned until we get to that final picture. We need to make sure that we can deal much harder with nuisance and criminal asylum seekers. The previous Secretary of State has presented a firm plan for this and I have also understood from this Secretary of State that she wants to look for the limits of what is possible here. I would like to ask her whether the migration chain is currently able to use enough information from the justice chain. If, for example, I hear the mayor of Amsterdam say that criminals should not be registered as asylum seekers, how can we let go of the specific approach of a top so many, of chain sailors, of faster locking and evicting, if we did not even know who they were? How can we make the most of the possibilities of refusing or withdrawing a residence permit on the basis of criminal behaviour? Does the Justice Department have enough signaling to the IND? The JenV inspection has also said that the exchange between the two chains deserves more attention. This seems to me to be an excellent question for today when we have all the rulers at the table. Can the Chamber gain more insight into that process? Can the Secretary of State make the most of his efforts to continue to deal with nuisanceous criminal and anti-social asylum seekers separately? The VVD has previously filed a motion for a separate, strict and austere shelter. Does the Secretary of State want to increase the pressure towards municipalities she is talking to in order to offer a location for this? I am thinking in particular of municipalities which are now receiving money and are happy to receive for the reception of displaced asylum seekers in an LVV, but at the same time saying that they no longer want to provide reception for this difficult category. A third that has to be done is actually realizing departure. We have talked about this very often in this Chamber. Returns will require countries of origin to cooperate. I very much appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State has sent a letter of return to the Chamber, also in response to all our questions, and that it announces a number of things it intends to do to promote return, for example a shorter notice in advance to asylum seekers that they must leave and to withdraw the repeated application more quickly. That is good, but what is really needed is for those countries of origin to cooperate. I have just said that the cabinet should not shy away more for more and less for less here; so development funds and visas are also being used to achieve the goals. That also requires some of the other ministers, and I am well aware of that. For example, from Minister Kaag, because a number of phrases in the coalition agreement really go on. But as far as we know, the cabinet has never really used the means of more for more, less for less. So I ask when the Chamber will finally be able to see the concrete results in this area and what the government is planning to actually achieve. Speaking of departure, there are still major concerns about how the pilot nationwide alien provision works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u155	Wait till I give you your name, Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am so curious that I almost forgot the order of business, Mr President. Sorry about that. I believe that this was the answer that Mrs Becker promised me, but I do not think that is an answer to the question. That question is very simple: how much money does the VVD have to pay for these migration agreements? 'Cause this can't be for free. If you think it's so important, then you should just say: we're making this our top priority and we're putting 1, 2, 3 billion into this. How much would you give for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u157	Well, I can give you a very simple answer: we have a lot to do and we have done so. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that we would help certain countries where the pressure was high by making part of the development money available for reception in the region. But we don't just do that. We are also ensuring, for example, that the opportunities for trade with Europe are improved for a country such as Tunisia, but also for other countries where the pressure is high, and we are going to help to address the root causes there. Well, that's the whole discussion of the budget of BHOS that's going to take place here. Thanks to the VVD, there is a huge shift in resources for these kinds of purposes, of hundreds of millions, precisely to ensure that these countries are relieved and get a positive agenda from the Netherlands: aid for education, aid for training. So we have a lot to do, but I would also like to highlight the other side of the coin. At some point, we must also dare to say to countries that do not cooperate with the withdrawal of outlawed nationals: it is not only logical that you receive money. I refer, for example, to a country like Mali, which receives hundreds of millions of development money, but never takes back an outlawed national. It doesn't make sense for us to keep doing that. Maybe we should stop that development aid. And that's what I'm putting here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u158	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u159	Yeah, finally. Mrs Becker refers to the funds that we have indeed made available in the government agreement to invest in the region, but that is not enough. Everyone realizes that this is not enough. Once again, in Tunisia, the Permanent Chambers Committee was simply told: do you really think we are going to solve your problem if you do not make a big cut? Mrs Becker is not specific either. It's a typical example: it's a top priority for the VVD, but if it costs money, we don't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u160	I can repeat what I have just said, but in view of time I will not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u161	Fine. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u162	Mrs Becker can mention Mali, but we know that there are very few coming this way from Mali. It is, of course, mainly the Moroccans, the safelanders, the Tunisians, the Algerians, who come here to hide the asylum procedure. Now we've gotten the Moldovans. What's stopping development cooperation or threatening to stop development cooperation going to help you get those safe people back? Because I can tell you that we are not giving these countries development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u163	No, it's not always about development cooperation. For example, there are other forms of cooperation with Morocco. In the field of vehicles we finance or make available vehicles. In the field of logistics, we have collaborative projects in which the Netherlands invests money. My colleague, Mr Koopmans, also referred to this in the budget of the State Department. That's what you should look at when you're sitting with Morocco. It is unacceptable to call for this kind of restriction and so say'stop it, don't do it', because then the result is that those people from Morocco and Algeria just stay here, cause nuisance and undermine everything the Christian Union is advocating here, namely reception for refugees who really need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u164	That's it, but then the question is, of course, where do you end up when you deal with this kind of thing... We have, of course, done this in the past towards Morocco, and I do not believe that we will even be able to make agreements of this kind. Doesn't Mrs Becker also think it would be much more sensible to look at what we can do together with Germany, which has the same problem, and with Spain? Of course, we need much more of a 'coalition of the willing', because it seems that we are not getting out at European level. Does Mrs Becker think that we should move much more together than pressure on Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u165	I think you should do and-and I think the Secretary of State wants to do the same. She writes that she wants to spend much more time with other countries. I think that's very good. It must put constant pressure on this in Europe so that we put pressure on Morocco. But we must also bear in mind that we have agreed in the coalition agreement that we must also conclude bilateral agreements. Let us also see how we can learn from some other countries where we can do it with a Morocco, so that the Netherlands can do it too. I say to Mr Voordewind: it is not just about money. In the last debate we talked about it. I believe that's what the SP has been asking for. For example, you can also include the issuing of visas and no longer issue visas for high-ranking persons from countries that do not cooperate. We need to handle those sticks behind the door. Otherwise, the appointment in the coalition agreement more for more and less for less is worth nothing, because then we only do more and never less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u166	I think the VVD sometimes starts with the nuclear option. I can still hear the predecessor of this Secretary of State say: the harder we bang Morocco, the less cooperation there will be, especially on terrorism. So it's not a little too easy to say "we don't give cars anymore," while the real subject on which we have a connection with Morocco is terrorism. So don't we have to go much smarter with Morocco to see how we can help each other instead of just banging on each other? Because the previous Secretary of State warned us very strongly about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u167	I don't think I'm just arguing here. I think I'm telling you to do it all. We have agreed with each other, also with the CDA, in the coalition agreement a package in which we would do more for more, but also less for less, but I do not see it happening yet. Nor should the Netherlands be naive and think: what they need, we are going to deliver, because perhaps they will finally take back their outlaws. No, we are like the Netherlands a very serious country. Morocco also benefits from our efforts, so perhaps we should also bear those negative consequences if it continues to refuse to take back its outlawed nationals. That's what I'm gonna stand for. I hope that the CDA will stand for that agreement in the coalition agreement as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u168	I started to find it a little easy that the VVD is so critical of Minister Kaag, who has to organize that more for more, less for less, while I note in particular that the real agreements have not yet been made by the Secretary of State of the VVD. We have the Moroccans on the table to come up with a plan, but the real negotiations are not being conducted. So it got a little easy. I would just like to point out that only banging on Morocco and indicating that we no longer want to negotiate with them can explode in our face. So it is right that we should encourage the cabinet a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u169	Sure. Luckily, I wasn't finished either. I will also come to other migration agreements which are important to us and which this Secretary of State should conclude in order to reduce irregular migration. So it's en-and. Totally true. But since no one else does it, I also ask attention to the stick, and not just to the root.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u170	In the so-called solid story of the VVD, I hear a number of contradictions, for example that those chain sailors, those officials who are going to call, climb in the phone and do not take no for an answer, should be used to keep illegal immigrants in their places. You say that we are going to make every effort to continue to take care of criminal and oppressive asylum seekers separately. Why do you want to continue to receive criminal and oppressive asylum seekers in the Netherlands, instead of expelling them to their country of origin? Because that's possible. The Turks showed yesterday that it's very easy. You're gonna get two I.S. terrorists. You put them on a plane and you send them to the Netherlands. Why do you not want to do that with illegal, criminal and oppressive asylum seekers? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u171	I certainly do. I also want criminal, oppressive asylum seekers to be deported. Pick it up, lock it up, turn it off. I say that in every debate. But unlike the PVV, I do care about the reality of international legislation. We live in a rule of law. So we can't just put people on a plane when you don't know if they're being accepted in the country where they arrive. So we will have to make sure that they arrive with those countries. As far as I'm concerned, I'd rather today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u172	Of course, that's a bullshit story. We have already tabled a motion on several occasions on the arrest, detention and expulsion of criminal and harassing asylum seekers. It's always rejected by the VVD. So I'm afraid that kite won't fly. You will be able to show that you are serious if we table another motion to that effect. I have a quote from the cabinet: the cabinet regrets that, despite all its efforts, Turkey has moved on to its own initiative. They just catch two IS-terrorists, one without Dutch nationality, and put them on the plane to Schiphol. And then they get here. That's a lot of speed. Why don't we do that with all the troublemakers? We'll kick them right out of the country. Hup, on the plane, back to where you came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u173	To be honest, I find it rather worrying that the PVV in this Chamber is now advocating the Erdogan regime as an example of how we should act as the Netherlands. I believe that we have a democratic rule of law here. It is quite clear what we want: these people must leave the country as soon as possible. But we come up with serious proposals to actually achieve this, while the PVV simply says: close borders and withdraw from all treaties, and that is the solution. Well, I haven't seen anything of a contribution to the solution in that yet, while this cabinet is working hard on real options, including in this Secretary of State's return letter, to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u174	Not an interruption, but a point of order. Of course, we are not defending Erdogan's regime. If anyone did that, it was the VVD with that Turkey deal. They might have to listen to our input a little better next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u175	You have made this point clear. I suggest you move on, Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was working on the importance of leaving. In this respect, there are serious concerns as to how the pilot with the national immigration facility is going to work. This provision has not come about as a voluntary shelter, but is aimed at a durable solution which in most cases means departure. But then I hear an alderman in Amsterdam actually say that he mainly wants to get to work with perspective in the Netherlands for executed. I can even see him in the shelter involving Dublin-claimers. From other municipalities we hear similar stories, which seem rather noncommittal to me. The VVD does not trust that this will work automatically. We therefore want to receive interim updates on the number of departures from the lvv. The VVD also wants the State Secretary to make discounts or withdraw the full funds, if eventually municipalities really do not comply with the agreements. Another issue that is needed with regard to departure is the detention of persons with a view to expulsion and with whom there is a risk of withdrawal from supervision. The VVD allows that to happen more often. The Secretary of State writes in her letter that there are patterns of certain groups of asylum seekers who have more often left the government for unknown purposes. She also writes: detention is and remains the most effective way to bring about the return of a rejected asylum seeker. I know there are many conditions attached to detention. That should not be allowed to happen, but would the Secretary of State be able to argue more often, on the basis of the patterns that it detects, that a particular asylum seeker who has been brought to justice with a view to expulsion also has the risk of withdrawal and can therefore more often impose standard detention? Because, in fact, all these conditions are met? And what about detention in closed family locations of families with children with a view to return? Does the time pressure of up to two weeks not mean that we have missed opportunities to actually allow families to return? We'd just like to get an analysis from the Secretary of State. Then the fourth and as far as the VVD is concerned, the most important task for the cabinet. We were just talking about it in interrupting debates. We need to focus more on reducing irregular migration. After all, it is not getting rid of people who had no right at all to come here to the solution, but to prevent these people from coming to the Netherlands and to Europe. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the cabinet would conclude migration agreements with third countries on this issue. We want to see concrete actions by the cabinet as a VVD. I would like to receive a smart overview of the planning and concrete activities of the various ministries, i.e. JenV, BH-OS and BZ. Can the Chamber see that? And can the lessons of other countries be involved in this? As far as we are concerned, we really need to work on this with man and power. This is the most important task at the moment when it comes to migration. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to a poignant problem that has come to our society with migration. I have done this earlier this week, but I would like to repeat that here today. It is then about oppression based on culture and religion. Do you know that 8% of the murder and manslaughter cases in the Netherlands are now honor-related? And do you know that there are estimated to be at least 200 to 300 hidden women per city in Amsterdam and Rotterdam? And do you know that there are indications that even 20% of marriage migrants live in forced isolation in Rotterdam? We now have websites in the Netherlands such as hymenrestore.nl. Financial independence plays a major role for women affected by this. There are women who don't have their own bank card or who don't even get out the door. I submitted an own-initiative paper on this subject on Monday entitled "In the Netherlands, you decide about your own life." I did so because last year's motion for an integrated action plan on self-determination, as there is in Norway, was adopted by the cabinet, not implemented as I would have liked to have seen it. So I was inspired by that approach in Norway. I have had many discussions with experts and stakeholders. I have made a proposal along five lines of action, and I would also like to offer it to these ministers and to the colleagues of the JenV Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u177	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u178	The lines of action are: support women to become free, change attitudes within communities, do not be tolerant to intolerance, support the supporters and punish the perpetrators. One of the measures that we are proposing and which may be of interest to the JenV committee is to investigate whether we can better enforce bans and orders for the perpetrators. For example, can there be a test with a GPS ankle strap? I would also like to see a separate article on the criminalisation of honour-related violence which would help to deal more quickly with the group offenders, because it is often the family that approves the use of violence. Can they also be punished? There will be a separate discussion, so I will not go into too much detail now, but perhaps today the ministers will be able to give a brief initial response to my note on the basis of their responsibility. Maybe if they do, they can also respond to our request to investigate whether we can apply the Forced Marriage acts, the laws in England that prevent people from being taken abroad to be married out and left behind, not even in the Netherlands. Finally, on this point. I would like to know what has happened to the commitment made in the formation of the national police force that the National Expertise Centre of Honorary Violence would be structurally secured in the organisation. Is it true that the personnel is temporary? Is it true that there would be an appendage to the U.S. Attorney's Office designation of domestic violence, specifically aimed at honor-related violence, and that it is still not there? If so, can the Minister promise that it will be there very soon? Mr. Chairman. Finally. The persistent situation in the Netherlands of oppressive and criminal asylum seekers, which I started with, of executed asylum seekers who do not want to leave, but also of increasing cultural oppression in the Netherlands, which I ended with: all this shows that our asylum system is failing. As Europe, we cannot afford an unlimited flow of migration to our continent. This cabinet has two more years to come up with real results to stop migration to Europe. In the various ministries, everyone must be involved in this and nothing else. I hope to see the many actions and results very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u179	It seems to me to be a very good initiative, although of course I have not read it yet. My question to Mrs Becker concerns her statement that the asylum system is failing. I'd like to ask her for some kind of political judgment. We now have nine years of Rutte Cabinet and seven years of FVD Secretary of State for asylum and migration, and asylum policy, the asylum system, is failing. Mrs Becker says it and I agree with her on a lot of points. She's putting down a wish list here this morning, a very long list. How does it look back on the subject of the European Union, let us keep it limited over the last seven years, in which Mr Teeven, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Harbers have waved the scepter over and been responsible for asylum and migration? How does she look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u180	I believe that we are currently dealing with an asylum system that parties such as GroenLinks are in favour of. It's hard to achieve what the VVD would want. If it were up to us, we would no longer be providing care here, but in the region, and would criminalise illegality. But we have not yet found the political constellation in which that can be achieved. The cabinets had to row with the belts they had. In 2015, there was a huge crisis. At that time, by actively concluding a deal and by using the Azmani Plan to increase reception in the region, asylum influx into the EU decreased by 95%. The forecast for the Netherlands was that more than 93.000 people would come to the Netherlands in 2016, but only a third of them have been realised by the government. Someone like Klaas Dijkhoff has made it possible to withdraw residence permits more quickly on the basis of crime. We removed some of the headlines that the Netherlands had on European legislation in order to speed up the asylum procedure. It's not ideal, I agree with that immediately, because we're not going to get what I really want, if it's GroenLinks, but I do think we've achieved concrete results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u181	This is an amazing answer, isn't it? After three Cabinets-Rutte and seven years of State Secretary of the VVD on asylum and migration, Mrs Becker says: we have an asylum system that GroenLinks can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u182	Well, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u183	I would say: then something did not go well for a VVD executive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u184	Yeah, how about that, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u185	So I'm really curious how that's possible. How is it that after such a long period of VVD policy you have a system, which the VVD says: this is a system that GroenLinks can be satisfied with, but which I am not satisfied with, as a representative of the VVD; Mrs Becker in this case? That does say something about the political relevance of the question of what the VVD has actually done on asylum and migration over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u186	It is very bad that it has to happen, but I hope that the current situation with the increasing number of troublesome criminal asylum seekers will serve another purpose somewhere. I hope that parties such as GroenLinks will see that we can't catch unbridled people here, that we can't bring unbridled people here if things aren't well organised in the rest of the world. That Mr Van Ojik is on the interrupting microphone again to ask if we in the Netherlands can't accommodate more people; that's not how it works. Unfortunately, however, there is still a majority in favour of a real asylum policy. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the system. I'm not talking about the policy. The system should really be one of shelter in the region. Why should people travel thousands of kilometres, why should they make a dangerous crossing when there is safe shelter in their region? Why would they have to do that if it's GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u187	Mr Van Ojik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u188	Finally. After nine years of VVD policy, it requires some political courage to blame GroenLinks for the fact that a policy is being pursued that Mrs Becker is apparently not satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u189	I didn't say I wasn't satisfied with the policy. I have just mentioned a number of examples of action from the cabinet. I call it averting the asylum crisis in 2015. I call it speeding up the withdrawal of residence permits. I call it the abolition of discretionary powers. I call it stopping with the children's pardon. I call removing legal aid at the beginning of the procedure. I refer to the abolition of hearings in the case of repeated applications. And I can go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u190	Okay, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u191	I'm happy about that. But I also really want a solution, and that is a new system. And if GroenLinks is in favour of that now, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u192	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, I can see you doubting whether or not you should interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u193	Yeah, because we don't have that many interruptions, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u194	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u195	So we have to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u196	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u197	So this has to be a real hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u198	That sounds very aggressive. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u199	Mr Van Dijk always promises to interrupt me. So I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u200	I also had to frown my eyebrows when Mrs Becker said "our asylum system is failing," bearing in mind that we already have to see three Cabinets-Rutte in the Netherlands. We've had Cabinets-Rutte for nine years. But the asylum system is failing. Some modesty would fit the VVD if you bear in mind that the asylum system is in fact completely stalled. There are waiting times of more than one year, there are periodic penalty payments of EUR 17 million next year, because it takes too long. EUR 17 million is thrown away as a result of mop policy by these Rutte Cabinets. I mention cuts on the IND. Does Mrs. Becker want to reflect on that, too? Does it want to acknowledge that asylum policy has not been really sensible in recent years? Finally, would she like to comment on the issue of legal aid? That is also being announced in the newspaper this morning with muscle language. They say: yes, that legal aid, we are going to abolish it. Does Mrs Becker dare to acknowledge that this is going to lead to a lot of extra work for the IND, because those lawyers are going to disappear and the IND is going to have to take over that work? The same IND that is now overflowing from work because these waiting times are so high because of the cuts that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u201	You thought: the longer my interruption, the more effective it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u202	Yes, it's about quantity, Madam President. It's not about quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u203	Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u204	Does Mrs. Becker agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u205	I'm afraid it wasn't a direct hit. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u206	I am going to try to give a short answer to this long question. Firstly, with regard to the IND. In my view, several parties, including the previous Secretary of State and this Secretary of State, have said: the way in which we finance the IND, which means that we do not actually take into account the possibility that perhaps next year much more capacity is needed and there is no structural security at the IND, is not good funding. So this cabinet has arranged structural funding for many more years ahead and to add 100 million per year. So, yeah, that wasn't good, but it's solved now. I also understand that the problem will not be over tomorrow, because those people need to be trained, as I read in the letters of the Secretary of State. It is an expert work, but we hope that what it wants to achieve, namely everything will be done in order by 2020. Then there is the question of legal aid. No, I don't think so. I do not think it is the case in many other European countries that legal aid is already available at the first meeting. Why should we, as the Netherlands, put that head on European legislation? I think we should do everything we can to reduce procedures and to remove obstacles in those procedures as much as possible. So what you don't have to do, I'd take it away. The Secretary of State also said that there is always information. It will stay, in a careful way. But it really matters that legal aid isn't standard for anyone who doesn't need it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u207	Thank you, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u208	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u209	Mr. Grotehuizen, you're through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u210	I've got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u211	No, you don't have anything. Then a point of order? I know how it is. Anyway, you may ask one question, but that also applies to the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u212	I would like to use my last interruption for this, because what nonsense of Mrs Becker! In 2016 the IND has been cut and the capacity has been decided to go down. At the beginning of this year, I discussed with Mrs Van Toorenburg that we should do something about this and that we should increase capacity. It was Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Dijk who said in a motion: look at this system. The VVD didn't do anything about that at all and just two years ago decided that the capacity had to go down, so we now have the fried pears. Can Mrs Becker just honestly admit that it is and that they've made a mess of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u213	I don't think it makes much sense to start pointing the finger at those who were there. In any case, I know that Secretary of State Harbers, the former Secretary of State, has made a great effort to ensure that the funding system for the IND would improve and that this cabinet, this coalition, has also released that funds. As far as I know, the VVD is still in this coalition, so that's what we did to each other. Let us now work together on the solutions, rather than arguing about who is responsible for the extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u214	I do not do it often, but I would like to say 'hear, hear' to Mr Groothuizen. 'Cause, of course, he's right. That extra money has been allocated to tackle the waiting lists now, I commend it. However, my question to Mrs Becker is: why is it necessary for the Secretary of State to carry out a new investigation into what the bottlenecks are at the IND? Where's her equity? Why don't they get to work themselves? Why another piece of shit that won't be followed up after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u215	The Secretary of State is responsible for such a complex implementation organisation as the IND, where a lot is going on, which has had to do with a very variable influx of refugees and which has a lot on its plate. She promised the Chamber, because we all want it to be done by 2020 at that club. Then I don't think it's weird that she doesn't say "it's gonna work with that extra money, but then she looks extra closely at whether such an implementation organisation is actually capable of doing so. I welcome that, and I call that taking responsibility for your wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u216	I'm in agreement that the Secretary of State hasn't done anything after five months. It's full of civil servants out there. They can do this investigation. Steps need to be taken now. All kinds of advice have simply not been followed, such as on what you should not do, namely to remove legal aid. That's what the IND says: don't do it. Van Zwol says, "Don't do it, because you're only making the problems bigger." I would also like to mention advice on other steps that could have been taken to solve the problems of long-term influx. The result is that whoever has to leave doesn't leave. As a result, people we know can wait more than a year. And then expect them to integrate someday. In short, what has this Secretary of State done in the last five months that you say I am very proud of? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u217	Certainly, Chairman: a lot. The Secretary of State is only five months away and we have received a letter from her with a lot of measures to promote return. We have received from her a plan for the flexibilisation of the asylum chain, which must be put in place. It is in the process of implementing the coalition agreement measure to cease legal aid at the first hearing. She has followed the recommendations of the Van Zwol committee and I can go on for a while. I hope that the Secretary of State will continue with the decisiveness she has shown in her letters, and hopefully here in the Chamber tomorrow. She's done a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u218	Even your own coalition parties are incredibly critical. What she has done is to send letters, announce new investigations, not follow advice she has already had, namely from the Van Zwol Committee. The problems are only getting bigger. It was 1 million in periodic penalty payments. It is 5.5 million in periodic penalty payments this year and 17 million in periodic penalty payments next year. What could we have done with all this money, including the strengthening of police capacity? In short, not such big words; also be critical of your own ruler and make sure that the problems are solved! That's what I'm gonna end up with, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u219	Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u220	Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have also made a very critical appeal about what needs to be done, namely the conclusion of migration agreements. As far as I am concerned, this must be given priority. But I think it could also be that if the Secretary of State did not look into the matter at the IND, some members of the opposition would say: why is the Secretary of State transferring money, but does she not look closely at the implementation organisation? So it's never good either. I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to do this very clearly, and I hope that this will enable her to put everything in order by 2020. Not because we here in the Chamber are happy about that, but because the people in the country and the asylum seekers who are really entitled to asylum will soon know where they stand and the rest will be able to return to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u221	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u222	Mr. Chairman. When I read the budget, I was actually quite critical, but when I listen to the debate so far, I have to think about it again. According to the PVV, the Justice budget is largely GroenLinkspolicy. According to the VVD, asylum and migration is largely GreenLink policy, or at least influenced by GroenLinks. So, apparently, we have a lot of influence. Soon the CDA will say that Prime Minister Rutte has become a member of our party. Maybe I should be a little less critical than I originally wanted to be. I see that Mrs Helder wants to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u223	Yeah, I guess with a point of order, I just have a hunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u224	Not a direct hit, Mr President, but a short while before the Acts: I referred to the budget of justice as a fucked-up budget, a budget of nothing, a repeat of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u225	Mrs Helder did indeed say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u226	Then she made that clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u227	I have also heard a colleague from the PVV Group say that it is very similar to D66 and GroenLink policies, that it has been affected by this. That is why I say: apparently we have a lot of influence, more than I thought when I read the budget, and I am optimistic about that. That's what I wanted to start with, a positive note. Now I'm going to go to serious business, because our rule of law shakes on its foundations. On 11 September, we had a lively debate here on drug crime, organised crime in Amsterdam and in the rest of the Netherlands. I don't think at that time any of us could have known what would happen seven days later, the cowardly and terrible liquidation of attorney Derk Wiersum. What happened after that is hard to sum up, because a lot happened. Attorneys had to be protected, prosecutors, judges, witnesses. As I said last week in a debate with the Minister for Justice and Security, we saw an involved, combative and sometimes even visibly affected minister at crucial moments, and although that is crazy in this context, it is worth complimenting. In the beginning, we heard the Minister and other people speaking in the media, other parties, especially about repression, but I hear the Minister talking more and more about prevention. I am also optimistic about this, which is worth a compliment, because GroenLinks believes in a good balance between prevention and repression. If you want to tackle undermining and organized crime effectively, you have to offer perspective at the bottom and be tough for the top. No one wakes up in the Netherlands one morning like a hard-ass criminal. That is a gradual process. For example, it's a pizza courier who normally brings pizza's calzone around, but suddenly he gets the question if he wants to bring a bag of coke to the Zuidas. Before he knows it, he's part of a criminal network, of a harsh world, he's blackmailable, and he can't get out without risking his own life. It is important that we address this, that we offer perspective, that we offer alternatives to vulnerable young people who are too often prey to drug recruiters, but also to other recruiters. I think it's okay to say that here. The debate on undermining often focuses on drug crime, but it is wider than that. We are also talking, for example, about organised trafficking in human beings. We're also talking about forced prostitution and loverboys. These are all forms of undermining, of mixing between the underworld and the upperworld. We are also tackling this effectively through a good balance between prevention and repression, through the root and the stick. I've been telling you, a lot has happened since that terrible murder of Derk Wiersum. The cabinet has earmarked money for extra police capacity, not enough yet, not structural money, but it is a step in the right direction. The FIOD will be expanded. A national intervention team has been set up. Although I understand all these initiatives and think they are positive and important, I have to say quite frankly that you are slowly not seeing the forest through the trees. That is why GroenLinks wants to make the following proposal in this debate. We propose to create a national coordinator to counter undermining; a person, a function similar to the NCTV, the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator. Although undermining and terrorism are not one-to-one comparable, there are differences, we also see many similarities. We need to develop long-term policies in addition to the tight-term measures and the ad hoc measures that are still under focus. We need to ensure that services work better together and that they share better knowledge. I am referring, of course, to services in the justice chain, such as police, public prosecutors and detectives, but also, for example, to youth aid, district agents and municipalities. We need to connect the national and local approaches effectively. This calls for a national coordinator to counter undermining. We are thinking of a Directorate-General under the responsibility of the Minister for Justice and Security, but I would like to invite the Minister to address the question of how he looks at this proposal in his first term tomorrow. The National Coordinator should work on long-term policies, on threat analyses, on cooperation and knowledge sharing between services. Then I'll go to the police. The pressure on the police is enormous: a lot of tasks and too little capacity. I had an interrupting debate just now with Mr Yeşilgöz of the VVD. I don't see her right now. What I regret is that, and that is why I sacrificed two costly interruptions to.... is that as a political one, and that is really not only the VVD, we are not sufficiently able to reflect on the mistakes we have made in the past. When my group talks to cops, municipalities and police unions, we hear very often: fickleness, then cops again, then cops off again. And: politics puts extra tasks on our plate. Reductions in mental health care and youth assistance mean that agents now have to deal with confused persons in addition to everything they already have to do. That's not too strong for the police. They ask us as politicians for long-term policies, for a long-term vision, for perspective. It is about priorities in what the police should do, but also about what that means in terms of budget and what that means for educating people. This calls for a long-term vision and therefore also for reflection on mistakes made in the past. Of course positive and with the aim of looking forward, but I do think that reflection is necessary. Then I come to a number of questions to the Minister, but I see Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u228	Mr Van den Berge's party recently raked into the General Political Reviews a budget of 10 million to expand the vice police; a very commendable activity. But isn't he doing exactly what he's now blaming us all for? 'Cause he knows as well as I do that the $10 million that's going to be spent on the vice squad is being taken out of basic police custody. We don't have a supply barn somewhere with detectives like that. So can he tell us how he sees his own action in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u229	It is 15 million, by the way, and my group is very proud of that. My colleague Buitenweg, who unfortunately cannot be present for the debate today, has been fighting for this for a long time. Because what we see is that every year about 350 sex cases remain on the shelf because of too little capacity. This is very unsatisfactory for the victims, but it also leads to evidence often aging. That is why we are very proud that we have managed to raise 15 million extra in the General Reviews for capacity for vice detectives, for strengthening the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute. I have a number of questions for the Minister. I can put it for convenience now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u230	But Mr Van Dam's question must be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u231	Am I guilty of that? No, I don't think so, because this is about extra money. My questions to the Minister are therefore the following. When can these detectives start? When were they trained? How is this additional capacity operationalized? I have those questions. But am I guilty of the problem of not providing a long-term policy, of the problem of fickleness? No, I don't think so. We are in favour of a long-term vision. In this case, we want something to be added to the police, but then we also make extra money available to the police. After all, that is the logical combination that we must always make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u232	Mr President, you know, we have six interruptions. If we're like this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u233	You may repeat your question, because I have heard it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u234	I have a more general point. If we continue in this way, and if this way there is simply no answer given by default if you interrupt someone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u235	No, that's why you can repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u236	... then I think I'm gonna stop interrupting, and that I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u237	Well, I'd be sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u238	Not when the Minister is speaking, by the way, I say in advance. But I simply do not think this is a substantive way of debating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u239	But please repeat the question. I have heard your question, but the answer is not yet. Repeating the question doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u240	No, I'm not going to repeat the question. I will ask Mr Van den Berge to answer that question, which he understood very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u241	But maybe he forgot the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u242	No, not at all, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u243	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u244	But I think I answered the question. I'll try to sum it up one more time. First of all, I told you why we got that extra money. And then I immediately answered the questions. No, I don't think we're guilty of that fickleness and that uncertainty for the police. For we see that there is a shortage of capacity on a concrete subject. We say that we want to solve that, but we also need to add additional money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u245	But the question was, where did that money come from? I'm going to repeat the question now. That was Mr Van Dam's question, wasn't it? Or did I misunderstand you, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u246	Well, Mr. President, the point is that we've all been hanging all kinds of extra balls in that police Christmas tree lately. One wants this, the other wants it. And we know that there is an enormous need there. So with everything we do extra, you don't have to think that extra people can be taken from somewhere for that. Those people are just from basic police care. That is what my question to Mr Van den Berge is about. Does he realize that? And how does he explain that to all the cops he's talking to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u247	Exactly. Just... do you realize that? What's the answer, Mr. Van den Berge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u248	Yes, I realize that, Mr. Chairman. The answer I have given is that we have said that the police must do something extra, and we are making extra money for it, to train new people so that extra people can be added and so that it does not lose that basic capacity. That's my answer. Perhaps Mr Van Dam does not think that is a good answer. He may think so, but I think I will answer his question. So the argument that I wouldn't answer, I don't share. If we want the police to do something extra, we also need extra money. That is exactly what I am advocating, and that is exactly my point here. If politics demands much from the police, we must also offer room and budget for this, and also that certainty in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u249	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u250	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my question to the Minister about the police. When has he reached a crucial lower limit in terms of occupation? We did receive yesterday's letter from Mayor Aboutaleb of Rotterdam. In it he writes: we can no longer use the police or we need to use less police at football games, and we may not be able to organize as many events in the summer as we really want. So he makes sharp choices in that. I am curious to hear from the Minister when the critical lower limit in terms of occupation has been reached as far as he is concerned. Where does the Minister see the deficit at the moment and how does the Minister reconcile the major police deficits with the decision not to pay the price adjustment until 2025? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna come up with some misdemeanors with the police. Let me put it first: GroenLinks has a lot of respect for the man and woman on the street, for the policemen who are working day in and day out for our safety. When I talk about abuses, it is mainly about the examples that we have seen recently at the top of the police force. Examples of discrimination, intimidation and abuse of power. In fact, I would have advocated an independent investigation in this debate, but I read that the corps leadership has already decided to do so. A positive step, as far as GroenLinks is concerned. So we really hope that this independent investigation will lead to a better understanding of what cultural change is needed at the top of the police force. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees his role in drawing up the commission of inquiry. Does he see a role in this at all, or is it entirely the police themselves? If he sees a role in this, how is he going to ensure that the investigation becomes completely independent and that everything is on the table? Mr. Chairman. Then there's employee participation in the police force. We often hear from district agents and police unions that the participation of employees is not very good. We must, of course, rely on police officers to do their job to the best of our consciences. They do that every day for us, and often under harsh conditions. But it is strange that they are increasingly unable to talk to themselves about their tasks and where they are deployed. In the past, the district agent himself talked about the police deployment, for example during a Sinterklaas trek. Today, this is increasingly an operational expert, who does so from behind a desk. When was the last time an investigation was carried out into employee participation and satisfaction among police officers about their role in decision-making within the police? Is he willing to re-examine that? Mr. Chairman. I have just spoken about the vice police in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Dam. I can only repeat here that my group is very pleased that it has been possible, in general terms, to arrange that extra money, the 15 million, in order to ensure that the 350 or so things that are still on the shelf can be dealt with more quickly. Will the Minister give us an update on the latest state of affairs? When are these new vice detectives gonna be active? What does this extra vice police mean for the capacity at the state's attorney's office? Shouldn't we also look there to see if an extension is necessary, so that we can prosecute the perpetrators? If I'm talking about the vice squad, I'm going straight on to the Centres of Sexual Violence. These do very important work in the Netherlands. We're seeing an increase in the number of reports. Those centers can't handle the number of reports anymore. At the moment, these centres are still funded by municipalities, but we have tabled an amendment to ensure that extra money can also be made available from the budget of Justice and Security to this Centre for Sexual Violence. I hope the Minister will respond positively to this later. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to bullying. Yesterday we had the child questioning, and I was in the bleachers once for a change. Minister Grapperhaus had that a frank debate with a number of students about bullying. I am not going to repeat the personal questions to him, but the Minister made a firm commitment there, as he himself called it, to tell us in every debate where that is relevant about what he is doing to tackle bullying. So I would like to give him the opportunity to do so in his first term and to discuss what his ministry is doing, of course in consultation with colleagues from OCW and other departments to prevent bullying. Then there's the National Inspection Service at the Animal Protection Department. It has received a lot of work, because since last year many first-line reports have been received via 1-4-4. They have received a lot of extra work, but no additional capacity. I understand they now have 17 inspectors for the whole country. That's a little more than one inspector per county. I would ask the Minister to work on a solution together with his colleague from the Ministry of LNV. I would like to comment on this later. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the one-after-last subject on my part: access to justice. Until last Friday, I was planning to talk very extensively about social law today, because it is under enormous pressure. Not so long ago, I had a sharp debate with this minister. I think it was last week, too, but time flies. For my part, I've been very keen on it. I thought it was necessary, too. I think it is very positive that last Friday the Minister came up with an emergency fund for social lawyers. We are not there yet, but that means that my group can at least look at the future plans constructively again. I could now go down here and say that it took a little while before the Minister came to his senses, but I do not, because there is a fine Dutch saying: better in half than in total error. My compliments on the Minister's insight. We will look constructively again at the future proposals, but we will do so in other debates because of time. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the IS children. I began my speech today by saying that our rule of law shakes on its foundations. But the rule of law is as strong as we are, it is as strong as our moral limits. We had a debate here two weeks ago on the return of IS children, IS fighters and IS women. At that time there was even a party here, the VVD, which said: we are even prepared to accept the death penalty if that leads to those people not coming here. Here, in the city of peace and justice, let us please respect international human rights, children's rights and the European Convention on Human Rights and do not fall through our moral limits. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u251	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was a nice speech from my colleague. We at WC-End... Mr. Chairman. The pressure on the asylum shelter is increasing. That's been a topic of conversation all morning. Waiting times continue. On average, 8,000 asylum seekers have been waiting for the start of their procedure for almost two years. They are despondent from uncertainty and from being forced to do nothing. That is not because of the high influx, but because of bad policy. A "early scaling" is what the Secretary of State calls it. In plain Dutch: firing people that you need a little later but who have now started doing something different. Mr. Chairman. There is still little prospect of improvement. The commitment made by the Secretary of State, or indeed its predecessor, to the Chamber this spring was that the waiting times would be back within the legal deadline by 2021, but as far as possible by 2020. That commitment is not going to be fulfilled. At least, it seems that if you read the Secretary of State's letter correctly about this. And it is not clear why not, because of that very high influx, the so much higher influx than we expected, there is no question at all. How could things get so out of hand? Mr Groothuizen, I think, just used the word 'debris'. How could such a mess arise? How is it that such great errors of judgment have been made by a series of rulers? I hope the Secretary of State can give us a little more insight into this. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is going to make this problem even worse with two measures which it announces. She's going to reduce the duration of the residence permit from five to three years. What will this mean for the IND? That's what I'm asking her. And is it prepared to waive these measures until waiting times have come within the legal deadline? And the Secretary of State will cancel the subsidised legal aid at first hearing. The Van Zwol Committee says that this measure leads to less careful decision-making and thus to more delay in the follow-up to the process. That's how the Secretary of State is her own worst enemy, you might say. She says that she has carried out the execution test requested by the First Chamber in the Strike motion and now provides for a reaction, but that she will have the measure consulted in the first quarter of 2020. I don't understand that very well, honestly. Apparently, the execution test has shown the opposite of what everyone who knows it says, namely that the deletion of legal aid leads to more delays. Why else would the Secretary of State go through with this proposal? Can it not make public the execution test, which has apparently been done by now, now that its conclusion seems to have already been established? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. I assume that the disastrous figures on waiting times for the Secretary of State give cause to leave behind everything that the IND is burdening beyond what is already the case. I can assume that's what I'm asking her. On another point, too, the Secretary of State ignores the opinions of the Van Zwol Committee, namely on children's rights. The Committee recommended that the child's interest at the front of the trial should be weighed down immediately in the application. In fact, the Secretary of State says: that is a good idea; that is what I am going to do by motivating in rejection decisions a little more why the child's interest in this case has or has not been decisive. However, restrictions on the possibilities for a child to develop and develop are not grounds for asylum, says the Secretary of State in a response to the Van Zwol report. You will not be surprised that my group feels that this is fundamentally different. That is also the reason why, together with a number of other groups, we have tabled an initiative legislative proposal on this point which I hope will soon be dealt with in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would like to join in what Mrs Becker said about human trafficking. Yesterday we saw a very large, brightly colored bus. It has been detected, let's just say. There was an intervention, but when I was in Ter Apel this summer with her colleague Van Wijngaarden, we were told that the smugglers were about to drop the asylum seekers at the door; I am now saying it in my own words. I think that the questions asked by Mrs Becker are to what extent do we actually exercise control; do we see what kind of people are coming to the door? I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent We have received answers to the actual questions about Mobile Surveillance Security. Also that Mobile Surveillance Security is apparently subject to many restrictions. I was quite surprised, reading the answers to the questions, to be honest with you, at what is not allowed in the supervision of trains, roads and airports. Anyone who wants to be surprised about this should read the answer to Question 89; I would like to refer to that. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to state whether or not they would be able to deal with some of the restrictions that exist today, without violating all kinds of legal rules. That seems to me to be the case. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. With a number of colleagues we were at Lampedusa last weekend. That is where people often feel completely alone when it comes to the reception of refugees and the rescue of drowning people. I'll have a few quick questions for the Secretary of State. First of all about the Sophia operation, which has suspended the deployment of ships until there is a view of evacuation and of the corresponding redistribution of refugees. When the redistribution agreements were made in Malta, the Netherlands did not give home. How are we going to help break this deadlock? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, Libya. That's what it's about automatically when you're on Lampedusa. That country is in total disarray, but with European support, the Coast Guard still brings refugees there every day. The situation in the camps there is degrading. Can the Secretary of State promise me that my last question is that the Netherlands, the IND, will also contribute to the resettlement of refugees from these camps next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u253	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Then I would like to propose that we suspend this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-2.u254	We're gonna have a VAO first. I think we should vote later too. There is also a short arrangement of work. We will continue this debate after the work has been arranged.
