ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34997, Rules on a uniform experiment with the cultivation and sale of hemp and hash for recreational use in a closed coffeeshop chain, summarised the Wet experiment closed coffeeshop chain. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u2	I would draw Members' attention to the fact that six Members will make their maiden speech during this debate. I'll ring a bell before every maiden speech. It is the custom here not to interrupt during the maiden speech. After each maiden speech I will address the speaker briefly and the meeting after the last maiden speech in this case is that Mr Recourt's maiden speech is briefly suspended for congratulations. I give the floor to Mr Van Wely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. After 40 years of failure and tolerance, looking away, hypocrisy, crooked and illogical legislation, it is finally time to tackle the Opium Act. Better late than never, and hopefully it's not too late, because if you look at the state of Amsterdam, you're afraid of the worst. Unfortunately, as usual, politics is very slow again and the ivory tower has no idea of what is happening in society. So let's listen to our sense of keeping our boots on the ground, and listen to those who are dealing with today's problems in practice, whether they are drugs, housing or immigration. Yes, Chairman, what does Forum for Democracy want, you wonder? In any case, one of our mottos is: soft healers make stinky wounds. We are not waiting for a weak experiment with half-baked conclusions, and if there are clear conclusions, then we need to go ahead with that. So we shouldn't be scared in our pants if we don't like the conclusions. We must stop tolerating, and we must maintain. We should do that with several laws. In other words, consistent policies. Whatever we're meeting, we're doing. Laws that are not enforced are not laws. Mr. Chairman. To kick in an open back door immediately: for the solution you don't have to be Einstein. The Netherlands is once again behind the facts. We look abroad where such experiments have taken place that have now been implemented in society. If we look at Uruguay, Canada and even some states in the archconservative America, we can say that the consequences of this experiment have been well received. Mr. Chairman. What exactly is the purpose of the experiment? Firstly, I would like to emphasise the health aspect. Not that the taking of soft drugs is by definition healthy, but if you're going to take it anyway, you'd better take controlled drugs from us until you're better off than the one God knows what's in. Secondly, crime. The question of whether you can reduce crime as a whole is, by the way, rather skeptical. The criminals could switch to another earning model. But the biggest profit should actually be that the user and the coffee shops no longer have anything to do with the criminal environment. Thirdly, we want, above all, logical, understandable and just laws that are well proportional to each other. Last but not least, I would also like to mention the state's earning model, because let's face it: this is big business for Father State. Not that we should be proud of this, but the state has a hand in making money from the bad and unhealthy habits of its citizens. Think about alcohol, smoking and speeding. The fines and excise duties are heavy, but not strong enough to stop people from doing so. But it's a perverse revenue model for the state. We certainly do not deny that. Mr. Chairman. The Forum for Democracy is also very sceptical about the success of this experiment. Let me just mow some plants at the feet of the opponents of today's bill. Firstly, the technical implementation of this experiment is very difficult. If even one link breaks, this ambitious experiment is already in danger. Secondly, we create a separate status in our beloved country, with its oh so dense borders. Sorry, Chairman, this was obviously sarcastic. Fortunately, this is not an obstacle for the Democracy Forum, because we prefer to go our own way rather than let the EU know-it-all hinder us. If we could walk our own way now with nitrogen, we'd be completely bacon-buyer. Thirdly, how does the drug mafia react to this? It would be a naive idea to assume that she's going down. The doom scenario is the Mexican model, in which the drug mafia influences everywhere and kills at bat. Fortunately, however, the Dutch government had a forward-looking view and invested a lot in the police. Oh, wait, maybe not. Fourthly, you will have to keep a close eye on the producers of weed, so that they cannot, as was the case last time in California, produce extra under the cover of the government and put the Netherlands on the map as an exporting country. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, legalizing soft drugs could be seen as normalizing its use, but that doesn't justify its use. However, consider it a common good, like alcohol and tobacco, and use it with moderation. In our view, then, we can still accept it. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. We find this an interesting project. As we find the current situation unacceptable in any case, we are looking forward to the outcome of this. However, we would like to hear from the Minister how the experiment will be evaluated. What are the criteria for success? What will happen if the level of drug-related crime after the end of the experiment is the same as before? How does the Minister estimate the chance that the government weed will be regarded as a weak broth of the much stronger weed that will still be sold in the criminal circuit? In the end, we won't get anywhere by creating the new situation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr. Van Wely, please stand down and I can speak to you. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. When the King has his own Grandmaster who directs the court, you are king and grandmaster. You're King Loek, chess grandmaster. King Loek is the alter ego you chose to use to become known in the chess world. In 1988, at your 15th, you became the chess champion of the Netherlands. Four years later, you became a grandmaster and you joined the top 100 of international chess. Since then, you've been a professional chess player. On your résumé, you call yourself "zzp'er as chess grandmaster." Your function consists of playing club competitions and tournaments, simultaneous chess chess and giving chess lessons. You also organise chess tournaments yourself, write books and articles and comment on chess games. After the first time in 1988 you became Dutch champion eight times, last in 2017. From 1992 to 2016 you finished for the Netherlands at the Chess Olympiad. In addition, you were part of the Dutch chess team that became European champion in 2001 and 2005. I think the invitation to the annual parliamentary chess tournament is already ready for you. After all, that title is still lacking on your palmares. In 2017 you were on the candidate list of Forum for Democracy for the Dutch Parliament. It was your first steps on the political stage. Since 28 March of this year you have been a member of the Provincial States in North Brabant. On June 11th, you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber. As a chess player, you are known as an offensive. We will see if that will also be your style in politics. In any case, a number of skills that are also useful for politics will be taken with you. You're analytical, patient, and you can spend a lot of hours together. Chess Grandmaster Garri Kasparov once said: "Schaken is life in small. Chess is wrestling. Chess is fighting." Just like politics. Once again, welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u6	I give the floor to Mr Dittrich. This is also a maiden speech, so I'll make a phone call anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, I warmly congratulate Mr Van Wely on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. The sale and use of soft drugs are tolerated under certain conditions, but the purchase and delivery at the back door of the coffee shop are prohibited. That is actually the core of the Dutch policy of tolerance for soft drugs. For almost 50 years, successive Cabinets in the Netherlands have been pursuing a drug policy in which public health is paramount. Hard drugs are distinguished from soft drugs. This pragmatic policy has begun under the leadership of CDA Minister of Justice Van Agt. I remember very well the emergence of one of the first coffee shops in the Netherlands. I was in high school in Utrecht. One day the vice principal came to our classroom and said: "A coffee shop has been opened at the Oudegracht in a yard cellar. The police won't do anything about that. People there use stuff and smoke sticks. I don't want any of you to go there. I don't want to see any of my students in a coffee shop like this." That made a very big impression on us. And the next day we went with a group from the class to the Oudegracht to see what a coffee shop looked like and a sticker. This was almost 50 years ago, but still very little has changed in the area of coffeeshops, with the absurdity of allowing sales for recreational use, but cultivation and purchasing remain punishable. So it is time that that changed. Because organized crime earns money in the Netherlands: black money with that back door of coffeeshops. That money is also earned through the trafficking and export of hard drugs. This money is then partly invested in the upper world and leads to undermining of the rule of law. We all know, we have seen the recent examples of organised crime being ruthless. Those excesses need to be dealt with strictly. But the government's bill is about framing the policy of tolerance for soft drugs. So it's not about hard drugs. The proposal organises an experiment in ten municipalities with a closed system, from grower and carrier to sale to the consumer in the coffee shop. The cannabis products are grown and sold on Dutch soil. Products shall be registered and administered. It's a closed system. So the back door of the coffee shop is closed. The cannabis will enter the experiment through the front door. By means of labelling and information by the coffee shop staff, the consumer receives information about the cannabis. Madam President. The members of the D66 Group support the government's bill. We believe that well-tolerated does not come from convenience, but that it is a deliberate choice. It is actually also the outlet of the rule of law. Finally, steps forward will be taken after almost half a century. However, I do have some questions and comments on the legislative proposal, first of all about cutting off organised crime. Unfortunately, we will have to bear in mind that organised crime will not be happy that such a lucrative source of income will dry up. There may well be pressure on all participants in that closed system. This could be physical pressure, for example by destroying cultivation plantations or robberies during transportation, or arson in coffee shops. The government states in the documents that the participants in the closed system are primarily responsible for the security of the cannabis product. They're gonna have to take care of security themselves. But against certain forms of crime, there is a real need for help and assistance from the police. Can the government promise that this necessary protection will actually be provided if necessary? This also applies to the cultivation community where growers will be allowed to grow their stuff. But that aggression can of course also be expressed in a different way, not only physically but also, for example, via the Internet, by fake news, by sending out messages to put the experiment in a bad light, disinformation. Of course, this is complicated to recognise by the nature of the case, but the question for the government is whether the government is prepared for such forms of undermining of the experiment. How is this to be dealt with, if that is already possible? For the D66 Group, it is important that all actors such as the police, the municipalities, the Dutch Food and Waring Authority and the JMV Authority responsible for supervision and enforcement within that closed chain should cooperate smoothly. My question to the Ministers is this: are you going to pay particular attention to coordination and the exchange of information between these actors? With regard to the public health aspect of the experiment: It is good that the consumer knows what he buys in the coffee shop in the closed system experiment. The label, on the sealed package, shows the THC content and CBD content. Furthermore, consumers know that no poor crop protection products have been used, and coffee shop staff are also taking a course to guide customers. There will be a package leaflet containing information on the use of cannabis, the unwanted and desired effects and side effects. I would just like to say that D66 supports the government's prevention policy as expressed in a recent letter to the First Chamber. That leads me to say that in the early 1990s, when I was a judge in Alkmaar's court, I did a lot of psychiatry cases and went off all the institutions with a little car from the courthouse. What struck me then was that there were quite a few young people in those establishments with a cannabis psychosis. From such a psychosis they had become dangerous to themselves or the environment. So there are vulnerable groups in society where cannabis works badly. I would like to receive a commitment from the ministers that the Trimbos Institute will pay particular attention to young people in the institutions in the context of the preventive approach. Mr. Chairman. As far as pricing is concerned, the price in the closed system is negotiated between growers and coffeeshops, the government says. This is already happening in the closed system we know from the medical cannabis, with which we have had many years of experience in the Netherlands. But still, if the experiment gets too high a price, then the customers will probably turn to the cheaper illegal circuit. That's something that really needs to be monitored. Perhaps it might even be that the illegal circuit is deliberately going to lower the bottom price to destroy the experiment. Will the government ask the Committee of Inquiry to include this aspect in the intervention and control communities? Mr. Chairman. We have received reports that some coffee shop owners and growers who would like to participate in the experiment cannot open a bank account because banks refuse to cooperate. Fortunately, yesterday, we read that the Amsterdam Court has put a stop to this and said that ABN AMRO Bank should open a bank account for growers who want to participate in the experiment. My question to the ministers is: do you want to make sure that, if there are other banks that are going to be bothered again and thus make the experiment more difficult, coffee shop owners or growers who can provide a statement of behaviour and have passed through the Bibob screening can still open a bank account? Perhaps then the ministers could sit down with the Dutch Banking Association to make that possible. Madam President. As of March 2019 there were 570 coffee shops in the Netherlands, spread over 102 municipalities. In the experiment 10 municipalities participate in a total of 79 coffeeshops. So almost one in seven coffeeshops in the Netherlands will participate in the experiment. So it is an experiment that is scientifically justified in size, but also so small that it offers opportunities to convince other countries that the experiment restricts the current Dutch policy of tolerance. There are concerns as to whether the experiment is not contrary to international drug treaties. As far as D66 is concerned, that fear is not justified. I remember that in the early 1990s, I was a Member of Parliament, President Chirac of France, protesting against the Dutch policy of tolerance. There were officials sitting around the table with foreign officials, diplomats having talks, ministers travelling to France. The end of the song was that France accepted the Dutch policy of tolerance, just as Belgium and Germany did. If we look at this design and experiment, which is a framework and a more precise definition of the current policy of tolerance, I do not think we need to worry that foreign countries have insurmountable objections to this. The same goes for Canada, by the way. We have just received a letter from the ministers on how things are in Canada. No problems with foreign countries there either. We hope that the experimental phase of this experiment will start as soon as possible and that there will be no further delay. Finally, I would like to ask when the experiment has now been successful. The ministers are right not to set the bar very high. They say that with the experiment in the field of security, nuisance, public health and crime, the cabinet aims to gain insight and sufficient information as to whether a closed coffee shop chain is possible to base political decision-making on it. The Knottnerus Committee is also modest. She actually says: if there is no deterioration, the successful introduction of a closed chain is already a profit, because that back door of the coffee shop is closed. According to the rules, according to the bill and the ministerial decisions, the experiment will in principle be completed after four years, unless it is extended for a further year and a half. But that still makes sense, because if this experiment proves that a closed Dutch system of production, transport and sales is quite possible, then it is actually illogical to complete it. Because the growers and the coffee shop owners who put their necks out during the whole experiment have made investments and have built up their business will of course see phasing out as unreasonable. As far as my group, D66, is concerned, the experiment can be extended on favourable results and rolled out nationwide with a new law, for example along the lines of the D66 Vera Bergkamp bill, which has already been accepted by the House of Representatives and is waiting here in the First Chamber. My question to the Ministers is whether they agree with my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You mentioned it yourself. After studying Dutch Law at the University of Leiden, you went to work as a lawyer. Since you didn't always want to act for one interest, that of the client, you decided to switch to the court after eight years. However much you then enjoyed the case law, the weighting of different interests and decisions, after five years you did not want to work again when problems had already arisen. You wanted to prevent them, and you can prevent them in politics. For the listeners who are wondering why I can read Mr Dittrich in this way: he himself described this very accessible in his book A blue chair in Purple from 2001. In 1981 you became a member of D66 and almost immediately you were a member of various working groups and advisory committees within the party. In 1990 you became the first representative of the people, as group chairman of D66 on the district council of Amsterdam-Zuid. Then you were elected a member of the Lower House in 1994. From 2003 to 2006, you were the group leader and political leader of D66. During your parliamentary membership, you submitted several proposals for initiatives, including the punishment of stalking and the expiry of the limitation period of prosecution for murder, together with Mr Rietkerk. However, your name is most closely linked to the motion you tabled together with some colleagues, in which you asked for the legal opening of marriage to people of the same sex. After leaving the House of Representatives, you became the attorney-director of Human Rights Watch in New York and later in Berlin. In that period, you started writing novels and thrillers as well as non-fiction. The thriller W.O.L.F. In 2016 the Vrij Nederland Detective and Thrillerguide declared the best Dutch thriller. In 2001 you wrote: "The motivation to publish my stories: (...) I want to show that democracy is not abstraction." Maybe that's why one day a book about your time in this First Chamber will follow. It's not a thriller, it's a non-fiction. But now I am way ahead of the facts! Congratulations for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u10	Mr Janssen has the floor and I will press the bell because it is a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group in the SP, too, warmly congratulate Mr Van Wely and Mr Dittrich on their maiden speech. A number of others will follow. Mr. Chairman. When preparing this debate, I noticed how hard the positions have gradually hardened and how they can be heard and read back in the tone. I'm sorry about that. After all, it is about tackling a symptom of a disease that threatens our rule of law. In the opinion of the SP, the situation in which coffeeshops are allowed to sell soft drugs, but not to be grown, must be brought to an end. In fact, our legal system is very simple at the moment. We have laws and rules; the police catch thugs who break laws and rules; the Public Prosecutor prosecutes the caught thugs, who are entitled to a fair trial and therefore assisted by a lawyer, who defends their interests. A judge then judges whether a person is rightly regarded as a criminal and whether a punishment should be followed. Simple and clear. Everyone understands that. To speak in today's terms: the pinnacle of transparency. If I stand up to that for decades from the back door at coffeeshops, that's not true. It affects society's sense of justice and its enforcement. It does so quickly, and that is why it has to end. I have just said that I have noticed that the tone of this debate has hardened. It seems to be about whether drugs are good or bad, but that is not the debate here today. We, as SP, are also clear about the fact that the production of and trade in hard drugs should simply remain a criminal offence. No misunderstanding at all. But the idiotic situation that something may be sold, but not grown, must come to an end. This is a monstrosity in our rule of law and affects the sense of justice. There is therefore for good reason a comprehensive prevention programme that warns of the consequences of drug use. Very important. The SP is also in favour of a comprehensive prevention programme and good information, especially for young people. What needs to be brought to an end is the false legality of the past few decades, but as part of a broad approach. This experiment is now a first step, an important step, but nothing more than that. The experiment is, in our opinion, a means, not an end. My question to the Ministers is whether they share this with me. Mr. Chairman. The risk is, I say, that the debate with the ministers will become a political debate in a scientific jacket. I would regret that, but, frankly, the actions and expressions of the cabinet so far are a clear sign of this. The many references to the cabinet agreement make this seem to be a debate the outcome of which could be the result of any discussion, I say, 'this is what the coalition parties have agreed on'. My question to the Ministers is therefore to give a clear answer to this at the beginning of the reply. That might save a lot of interruptions. My specific question to the Ministers is whether or not there is room for adjustments on the basis of our debate and the arguments put forward in it. First of all, the SP is pleased that a large-scale independent committee, commissioned by the cabinet, has started working on this experiment from a scientific point of view. Important, because the ministers in the House of Representatives themselves have also indicated that the scientific content is an important condition for international control of this experiment, albeit with extreme caution. This is precisely where the SP is concerned, and with us, for example, the Council of State. The Knottnerus Committee advises on a scientific basis, and I would like to go back to the first opinion that there should be considerably more municipalities than in the government agreement to participate in the test. "Not meaningful" is the committee's opinion on a small experiment. Those municipalities have also signed up, 26. It is also necessary to experiment with different varieties of weed and hash and to grow more than 25 varieties of hash and weed of sufficient strength. The end of the test after four years is referred to by the Committee as "unlogical and risky." When choosing the participating municipalities, the Knottnerus Committee recommends that at least the municipality of Utrecht be added to the test. And the municipality of Utrecht was also willing to make a valuable contribution to this experiment in adapted form. Mr. Chairman. These are all clear recommendations, which increase the scientific value of the experiment. Recommendations of the Knottnerus Committee, which are also warmly supported by the SP. After all, an experiment is intended to gain as much insight as possible for informed follow-up decisions. The experiment is a valuable tool that we need to make maximum use of, and it is not an end in itself. But the better the experiment, the better the insight. If I look at the ambitions of the cabinet, on the basis of which the Knottnerus Committee has also carried out its scientific research, it is at odds with the chosen and proposed implementation, the Council of State establishes. I quote: 'In view of the ambitions set by the government itself, the question is to what extent the experiment will be sufficient, now that the government has opted for a limited set-up in size and duration. The Council of State advises the Cabinet, also in the light of the Knottnerus Committee, to further motivate the design of the experiment and, if necessary, to amend the proposal." It's still all clear advice. However, the government's reaction is negative, and that seems to ultimately only be argued with a reference to the agreements of the government agreement. Hence my previous question on this point. The cabinet shows itself irresistibly to interfere with the agreements and principles of size and duration laid down during the cabinet negotiations. We regret this once again, because these agreements in the coalition agreement are not based on the scientific opinions that are now available through the Knottnerus Committee. Political desirability and feasibility are the regulatory framework for the Cabinet and not a science-based approach. In its opinion, the Knottnerus Committee made it clear that "the transition and duration of the experiment do not make it possible to investigate long-term health effects and effects on total crime." Mr. Chairman. The first question you should ask as a recipient of such an advice is: what can we do to increase this measureability? But that does not happen to these ministers. The cabinet opts for its own criteria and takes the independent scientific advice in the brink of light. We are gradually wondering why scientific advice has actually been requested if the cabinet apparently knew it all so well in advance. Why does the Cabinet show itself to be so unwavering? I would like to see that question answered by the ministers. If this is the case, it would be a good thing for the ministers if they just came out and said: this is how far we want to go politically and that is where it ends, like it or not. If that is the case, please say so. In fact, the ministers always give different reasons, but the political feasibility and desirability remain outside the scope of the debates, which appear to play such a strikingly decisive role. The tragic thing about this is that the Minister of Justice and Security said at the hearing in the House of Representatives: "I would like to point out that there is a monitoring and evaluation committee that will accompany this in a very careful, good and scientifically responsible manner. That's much better than leaving something like that to me as a minister. It is a good thing that it happens that way." I call that tragic because it is the very essence of my criticism. Furthermore, I fully support the Minister's self-knowledge on this point. Mr. Chairman. Ministers have been too guided by political desirability and lack of scientific quality. It's got all the appearances. Of course, I have also heard all the arguments about enforcement and the costs involved. The Minister for Justice and Security stated in the Lower House that enforcement should not lead to all kinds of additional financial consequences. But that argument is not convincing, but it shows what one of the starting points is: it should not cost anything extra in enforcement. My question to the Minister is whether this really should be a consideration if a clear additional investment in enforcement could increase social added value overly. In addition, my question is how the minister deals with municipalities such as the border municipalities in this experiment. They should simply maintain on the resident criterion. Will the minister provide extra support to these municipalities with money and manpower? Can these municipalities count on that? Or does it also apply here "no extra euro for enforcement"? In my opinion, that would be extremely bad. Also read the Tops report which was sent to the House of Representatives yesterday and which we received this morning. It doesn't come naturally, is the conclusion in that. Mr. Chairman. Let me also briefly share from my own administrative experience on the issue of the financial frameworks. The communication to a board after completion of a project that the project has been completed within time and within the budget will be welcomed by many drivers with satisfaction. However, the question that is asked too little is: could we have created extra social added value with a limited additional investment? This is a follow-up question which, in my opinion, should be put to every project and therefore also to this experiment. I cannot escape the impression that this follow-up question has so far not been asked by the ministers in this experiment. It seems to be a question of "budget is budget." But it's not too late. Can the Ministers seriously ask themselves this question before implementation begins? What can we do to make this test better and to get more out of it than has been proposed today? If the ministers are prepared to do so, my question is to them. Mr President, I come to the international stage; Mr Dittrich also said something about it. The Minister of Justice and Security has always pointed out the international context as a reason why only six to ten municipalities can participate in the experiment; the choice in the government agreement. The six to ten municipalities are laid down in the government agreement, as this would still be acceptable internationally. My question is: who did the Minister speak to during the coalition negotiations on this point? Which countries have said 'no more than ten'? I take it that it is not Luxembourg, where we are at the moment busy with a step towards legalization, a far more far-reaching step than the experiment we are discussing today. Luxembourg should therefore be a partner of ours. But you must want it. My question to the ministers is therefore very specific: who opposed the participation of more than ten municipalities? And do the Ministers agree with me that a higher scientific value of the experiment would lead to a higher degree of acceptance in the countries around us if that were the problem? After all, the Minister for Justice and Security refers to it: it must be scientific. But now that the cabinet ignores the scientific advice of the Knottnerus Committee, it still undermines its own international support for this trial. In other words, does the Cabinet not miss an enormous opportunity to increase international acceptance by knowingly neglecting to increase the scientific quality of the experiment? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. One point runs like a thread through all reports on crime and undermining: half-hearted government action does not work. Read Tops and Tromp one more time: The back of the Netherlands. If ministers continue to take the view that they are doing the best they can, despite the scientific advice that points to the added value to be achieved if they are followed, then that is very disappointing but also clear on the other hand. It is clear that budget and political feasibility appear to be the framework for this experiment and that results are subordinate to it. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the government is meeting the agreement made there, but that it is not prepared to take another step. It's what it is and there's no argument, no matter how valid, anymore. A clean performance, the Minister for Medical Care called it in the House of Representatives. However, the qualification leaves plenty of room for interpretation, because Van Dale does not know the word "splash pure." Each can therefore give its own interpretation. As far as I am concerned, the impure attitude and implementation of the ministers in this experiment stands for: unwavering, deaf to arguments and, for political reasons, unwilling to follow valid scientific arguments against better knowledge. But I would like to be persuaded by the ministers of the contrary, hence my previous questions on this point. Mr. Chairman. I come to a cautious conclusion. The scope of the pulse stick of this experiment seems mainly based on what the coalition parties have dealt politically, to use that term in this context. There should be no additional financial consequences for enforcement and we can see that the scientific value, and hence the social return, is not optimal because of the way in which the cabinet dismisses the opinions delivered at its own request. This has also missed the opportunity to increase international support. All things considered, there is an experiment desired by the SP which, with better scientific knowledge, could have provided much more information of a higher quality with more international support. In our opinion, the arguments for failing to implement the proposed improvements lack conviction. It could have been so much better. Mr. Chairman. For the SP, justice must be done to the cry for the help of society and all those local administrators who have been in the water for a long time and who have had their hands in their hair for years. Thinking from behind a desk in The Hague to know what the world looks like than the local drivers with their boots in the mud every day, makes this clean version a missed opportunity. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Ministers' answers in the hope that there will be a further substantive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u12	Hold it right there, please. Mr. Janssen, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. In the early 1980s you started as a catering employee at the Kurhaus in Scheveningen. You grew and had several leading positions in the catering industry. In 1995 you started as an independent catering entrepreneur in Scheveningen. Your company came to an abrupt end when you had a serious car accident in 1998. As a result, both your short and long-term memory was affected, I understand. You started a long rehab program. As part of your rehabilitation, you decided to study law at the Open University. Ten years ago, in 2009, you graduated cum laude as a lawyer. This speaks of your strong will, your clear mind and your perseverance. In the meantime, you had started working again in 2007. At the Dutch Parliamentary Party of the SP you became a member of the Ministry of Justice and Foreign Affairs. Because you had also been on the list of candidates for the Lower House, you replaced Sadet Karabulut in 2011 in connection with maternity leave and maternity leave. During the same period, the Provincial State elections took place. The SP in South Holland became part of the government of the province and asked you as a member of the Deputy States. From 2011 to 2015, you were a deputy responsible for governance, youth care, social participation and the environment. When the SP again became part of the College of Deputy States in South Holland in 2015, you were re-appointed. This time, your portfolio included environment, soil restoration, water and water transport, and cultural heritage. Since June 11th, you have been a Member of Parliament. In addition, you are involved in a PhD research at Leiden University as a guest employee. You also intend to work as an independent consultant in the field of management and business management. In the letter in which you offered your resignation as a member of Deputy States, you wrote to the new members of Provincial States of South Holland: "Policy is about people and our inhabitants need not only your head, but also your heart. In addition, all inhabitants of South Holland should be nice to us." Your advice goes equally well in the First Chamber, although of course all the inhabitants of the Netherlands are nice to us, to use your words. Once again, welcome, and I look forward to your input in the forthcoming debates. I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate all the Members who have made or are about to make their maiden speech today. And that there are many nice contributions to follow. Not a maiden speech for me today, but a re-entry speech. It'll take some getting used to. Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with the law experiment closed coffeeshop chain. This is an experiment in which not only the sale of pot and hashish is allowed under conditions, but also its production. An experiment by which the hypocrisy of the Dutch soft drug policy is allowed to break through the sale of hashish and weed without allowing legal production and supply. And that is an important step as far as GroenLinks is concerned. GroenLinks is a supporter of the decriminalisation and regulation of the use, sale and production of soft drugs. Not because we idealise or propagate the use of soft drugs, but because decriminalisation combined with regulation is the best way to protect both public health and reduce crime associated with illegal production and supply. And we are not alone in this position. Those involved in public order and the fight against crime, and those working in the field of addiction and public health, also have a lot of support for the regulation of soft drugs. To finally get the back door of the coffeeshops right, or to close them, as Mr Dittrich said. In order to regulate and control the quality of soft drugs, and thus to better protect the health of users. In order to be able to use the capacity of police and justice more effectively and efficiently. To make cultivation safer for the environment and the environment. In order to be able to levy excise duty, as we do on other legal addictive substances such as alcohol and tobacco. It's not that far yet. We are talking about an experiment, an experiment that is certainly not ideal as far as we are concerned. Speakers before me have already said a few things about this. Many questions have been asked by us and by other parties, both here and in the House of Representatives, about the precise implementation of the experiment. And as it goes, we are satisfied with some answers and others less. For example, we regret that an experiment was not chosen in which the municipalities themselves could make proposals for the implementation within a certain range. We regret that, partly because of this, one of the G4 municipalities has not been able to participate in the experiment. We express our hope that the research committee that will carry out the experiment will find a form in which, within the framework of the law, G4 municipalities that want to do so, such as Utrecht, can still be involved. We also think that the involvement of users in the experiment in the current regulations is somewhat shaky, although the issue has become more serious in the House of Representatives thanks to a motion by Ploumen and Buitenweg. Also on the support of the municipalities both financially and in terms of knowledge and capacity, and on the safety of all those involved, the last word will not have been said. We trust that the ministers will seek constructive cooperation with the participating municipalities. And we are confident that the House of Representatives, in particular, which will be informed by ministers on various points, will carry out its monitoring task here. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, the experiment is, as has been said, a first step towards the complete decriminalisation and regulation of soft drugs. It is a first step which, as far as we are concerned, needs to be taken as quickly as possible and a first step which, as far as we are concerned, must be followed by further steps. In the note following the report, the Ministers replied that they are endeavouring to bring all laws and regulations into force as soon as possible as soon as it is ready. I would point out that this means that one of the fixed dates of entry into force as used is not to be expected: 1 January or 1 July. Please confirm. I would also ask the Ministers to be more specific and to give an indication of the expected starting date. As far as the follow-up steps are concerned, the Ministers have made it clear on several occasions that they do not want to anticipate the results of the experiment by preparing for the continuation and expansion after the experimental phase. In their view, there is sufficient time to decide on the follow-up after the evaluation, which must be completed no later than eight months before the end of the experiment, and at that time the experimental phase can be extended for a further year and a half if necessary. The Cabinet considers that this period is sufficient to transform the experiment into generally applicable legislation if desired. Is this not a somewhat optimistic assessment of a whole legislative process on a subject on which I assume there is no unanimity in Dutch politics even after the experiment? And how can we prevent the construction of infrastructure from being reduced if the extension period proves to be too short in due course? Would the Ministers agree that this would be very undesirable? And are they prepared to at least work out process scenarios to prevent it from having to come to this? As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, we must stop thinking about the further decriminalisation and regulation of soft drugs "because there is an experiment going on." Developments will continue, including in other countries, and also internationally. We think it is important that the Netherlands does not remain on the sidelines in these discussions, but actively participates in them. Do the ministers agree with me? And do they also agree that the Netherlands should take a position in international discussions which should at least enable the implementation of the experiment in generally applicable legislation? Earlier, the Minister said that there was contact with Uruguay and Canada at both political and administrative level. Can we trust that these contacts will continue and will also be aimed at exploring the possibilities of international legal integration of the decriminalisation and regulation of soft drugs? What is the situation with regard to contacts in Europe on this issue? Is there also contact with Luxembourg on this issue at political and administrative level? And where is the process of regulation actually going in Luxembourg? If that is not yet the case, are the Ministers prepared to take the initiative? Mr. Chairman. After this speech, it will not be surprising that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will support this proposal for an experiment in the hope that more will follow after this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u14	Thank you. A question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u15	I listened with interest to Mrs De Boer's speech. I noticed, especially at the beginning of the speech, that you are not playing down the dangers of drug use. That is right, because all we need to do is look at the website of Brave Mothers, how mothers break up because their children have been drugged. So I assume you'll be serious. Do you see the risk of this legislative proposal being able to further normalise the use of drugs? Do you still want to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u16	I think there are risks involved, as with all other drugs and alcohol and tobacco. I believe that the good thing about this legislative proposal is that it also highlights the risks involved; that this will also be done in the field of prevention. So yes, we see the dangers. Now it is true that, as far as we are concerned, we need to distinguish between soft drugs and hard drugs. In any case, the dangers of hashish and weed are no more serious than, for example, the dangers of alcohol consumption. We must also warn against this and use it to prevent it. The same applies to hashish and weed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u17	Whether soft drugs are still soft, I wonder very much. But isn't the risk of normalization much greater now that the government actually puts its stamp on 'this is good stuff', to use Mr Dittrich's words? Doesn't that risk getting too high? How does this relate to the opening of your speech that the dangers of drug use should not be played down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u18	In my opinion, it is much better to monitor the quality of drugs when it is regulated than when it is fully in the criminal circuit, as is the case now. Or at least, its cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u19	Thank you. Mrs Bikker has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations to you as Maiden President this day! Have fun with it. And of course congratulations to colleagues Van Wely, Dittrich, Janssen and later also to Mr Meijer and Recourt, and of course to the re-enterer in our midst, Mrs De Boer. It's nice to have this debate with each other right now, a debate that matters a lot. Because every day the news reports of rolled-up pot plantations, drug dumping and the violent effects of undermining drug crime roll over us. Behind that lies a dark world of serious crime, of addictions, of citizens who face unsolicited drug waste and of unjustly standardised drug use. Where 40 years ago weed use was especially for left-wing hippies, the world of soft drugs has changed dramatically. Worldwide, it's made big money by criminals. The strength of the available cannabis has only increased. It is clear that there is already a huge problem of the availability of soft drugs and hard drugs in our society. The bill before us today, the Wet Experiments closed coffeeshop chain, is not a comprehensive solution. The government presents this experiment as an attempt to see whether the realisation of a decriminalised chain is possible and also what its effects are. Because yes, there is a big problem in our society because of the presence of soft drugs. The current policy of tolerance is still not the recipe for reducing it. What to do? The question before us today is whether the proposed experiment will provide building blocks to improve policy. The question then arises as to whether the experiment is feasible, enforceable and lawful. In addition, there is the question of the side effects of the proposal. The Christian Union Group still lacks convincing answers on a number of these points, but it is precisely in this that this debate can also help. The building blocks of the experiment will have to lie in health gains, in reducing crime and in reducing undermining. However, the government does not want to speak in advance when the experiment has been successful. However, for five years of six months of preparation, four years of experiment, six months of completion, the experiment is the answer to the search for a better policy. That is the position I am asking the ministers to take. Those who take five years must do so with justice and reason. What if, in the meantime, the use increases, if it becomes even clearer what the health risks are or if crime does not decline? So what's the profit from this interval? Does the Minister leave those five years behind? What finger does the minister keep on the wrist? If during the experiment it appears that there are absolutely no building blocks or that there are significant changes in the field of health risks or serious drug crime, is there room for action? I ask for clear statements on this point. Has it been considered to give a next cabinet control halfway through the experiment or to collect sufficient building blocks to carry it through? I look forward to the Minister's answer. Before entering into the test on feasibility, enforceability and legality, the Christian Union Group wishes to put down its great ethical concerns. Cannabis is also subject to health risks that are controlled and legally grown on a quality basis. Cannabis can get addicted. It can exacerbate and provoke mental problems if you're sensitive to them. Your memory and learning performance can decrease. And above all: smoking cannabis is unhealthy. There are at least as many harmful substances in cannabis smoke as in tobacco smoke. That could cause problems like coughing, bronchitis and other lung problems. Remember that most users still smoke, according to the website of the Trimbos Institute. An experiment with drugs approved by the State has the great danger that the message is implicitly "these drugs are good," in the sense that they are not sponsored by crime either. But also the composition has now been carefully looked at. However, the health risks remain the same. Cannabis use, according to a growing number of studies, can cause psychosis, a risk that needs to be addressed rapidly by leading psychiatrists. What impact does this finding have on this experiment? Why is there no strong commitment to reducing the number of young users and the number of start-ups, especially when it is clear that young people are at increased risk? Or is this reduction the purpose of the preventive approach included in this experiment? The height of the THC content.... for the listener: the strength of the weed used... has increased enormously over the past decades. Officials of these ministers have expressed concerns that cannabis use is becoming more and more like hard drug use. However, the advisory committee did not advise the Minister to make demands on the THC level, because the scientific evidence is not irrefutable. That is also difficult, because it is simply ethically irresponsible to do a randomized clinical study, in which one group of people and another group of people do not use cannabis, with the aim of checking whether psychoses occur in that first group. Such a type of research is considered ethically irresponsible in science. The negative impact on the participants is too great. In this respect, however, I am curious as to how the Minister intends to further shape the experiment. There's gonna be control towns. Are there gonna be control target groups? And what does that mean ethically? How does the Minister come to undisputed findings when it comes to health benefits? Can he promise that he will also allow ethical issues to be considered in scientific terms? Is he prepared to be reviewed by the Central Committee on Human Research? Does he want to send it to this room? This was also an opinion of the Knottnerus Committee. But even if the evidence of health damage is not 100%, but the evidence is so great that there is a huge risk, the Christian Union Group does not want to sit on its hands. What does it take for the Minister to take action? When does he dare to limit the THC level anyway? Can he make it clear here that there is no policy moratorium for soft drugs policy? It is good that a preventive approach is being prepared, but then everything has to be taken out of the box. The experiment is also based on the old channeling idea, which we often have in the Netherlands on such matters. It is not just the policy of tolerance that is an example of this. For example, the legalisation of online gambling, which was discussed recently in this Chamber, was also the ratio: channel what is bad and it will be less used. But is that true? The opposite is true. A lot of supply stimulates demand. This is also beginning to become clear from the legalisation of cannabis in the United States, where a commercial market has emerged that attracts new users. What lessons does the Minister dare to draw from this? And can you do that while the experiment is going on? We know from the field of alcohol prevention and tobacco discouragement that limiting supply in terms of number of outlets or visibility of the product can help to reduce use together with the aforementioned strong prevention policy. I would ask the Minister to make a clear commitment that the number of outlets in the municipalities concerned will at least not increase. I also ask him how he wants to monitor the effect this experiment has on the normalization of drugs. For my group, this is an important finding in the assessment of this experiment. I also ask him for the commitment that the proposed prevention approach, including the research needed for vulnerable target groups, will be fully prepared and launched before the experiment begins. Indeed, the Christian Union believes that capital letters should be above drug policy: DO NOT BE INTENDED. Does the Minister share that? What is the message the government sends with this experiment? How does the Minister do that? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna take that test on feasibility, enforcement and legality. With regard to feasibility, the main actors, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the judiciary, indicate that the proposed experiment is feasible. I would also ask the Minister what expectations he has of improving information and prevention in the coffee shops concerned. Does he expect an increasing demand for assistance in the regions concerned? Does he have any resources for that? My group has asked a number of questions about enforcement. The concerns about this have not yet been removed. How is the security of those involved guaranteed without additional police involvement? In its opinion, the Public Prosecutor calculates that the net operating result of an average glass vegetable company is €12 per m. For a hemp farm, indoor cultivation is based on €7,000 per m. Simply that fact already requires enforcement efforts. The financial annex does not make it sufficiently clear to me how the cabinet finances it, particularly as regards the police. As far as legality is concerned, the draft law is most critical. It is clear that the proposed experiment is not in line with the treaties in which the Netherlands is party. The Council of State also outlines this dilemma. At the same time, however, there is a problem of cannabis and alternatives to the current, poorly effective policy are needed. In that respect, however, it is important to ensure that this experiment is sufficiently meaningful, credible and scientifically sound. Only that justifies a Dutch derogation from the Treaties. Has the Minister worked with the European countries and the United Nations on these demands? Does this give him the confidence that the results of this experiment in the international and European context will also have power of expression? Can he back that up? I'm very curious about that. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group finds this tension with the treaties, and I would like to make it a friendly exception which must be absolutely temporary in nature. It has therefore taken note with agreement of the Minister's replies in writing that it is precisely for this reason that the temporaryity and the period of four years are so important. This is where I underline that. Mr. Chairman. You have noticed that the Christian Union Group sees that current policies are ineffective, but we really have a lot of concerns about the choice of this experiment. These are in the areas of standardisation, health risks, the necessary police effort and the tension with international conventions. If the government interferes more deeply in the regulation of a market that is connected to crime into its fibers, it will be on slippery ground. You can do something with the temporality. You can make additional demands on the strength of the resources offered and impose requirements for the exclusion of vulnerable target groups and other target groups, such as young people. It's all possible, but it's still complicated. I know this Minister, and I am talking about the Minister of Justice; I am sorry for Minister Bruins as someone who is fully committed to the fight against serious crime, and therefore also drug crime. That's what it takes. The Christian Union wholeheartedly supports him in this. However, we will not bring the serious drug crime to the fore with this experiment. It's gonna take a lot more than that. I would ask the Minister to continue to make full use of this point in the future of the cabinet period and to come up with a structural approach to combat the many misery caused by drugs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u21	An extremely spicy and critical speech from my esteemed colleague, as we are used to. The next question, however. I know, of course, that the Christian Union has a certain commitment to this coalition agreement. What room does your group still see, what route do you see to put this dragon of a bill, as you have put it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u22	Thank you for at least your spicy question. But I think it's a good question. Let's outline the proportions. Our House of Representatives has reached a coalition agreement. There's an autograph underneath it. That does not apply to our First Chamber. Of course, we belong to a coalition. You were quite right to see that. It is, and hopefully it will stay that way. But I would like to point out that as a senate group, we simply have our test to do, namely whether that law is right. I have raised a number of concerns with the Minister. I also know what sensitivity there is in the coalition about this. I'll deal with that with care, of course, otherwise I wouldn't be worth a haircut. But most importantly, I think we are taking steps in the area of drugs policy. Right now, this is failing. We're looking for a solution. The cabinet says this could be a solution. Then I say I care about a few things. Then it is about prevention, which is clearly that you should not be doing this. The second is that a cabinet can act when the building blocks of such an experiment are not delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u23	Thank you for the very clear answer. I look forward with great interest to the final weighing of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u24	But not too fast, not too fast, Mr. Van Dijk! First, to hear the minister and to see good things. I think that's wonderful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u25	Thank you. I call Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u26	Madam President, it's so nice to see you here. Congratulations on your maiden-chair womanship. Mrs. De Boer, it's so good to see you coming back here this morning. On behalf of our group as a whole, I would like to congratulate those Members who have made their maiden speech today and those who will continue to do so, Mr Meijer, Mr Recourt and Mrs Bezaan. Congratulations to Mr Janssen, Mr Dittrich and Mr Van Wely. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. The Praise of Fun is the most famous work of Desiderius Erasmus. A book with an ambiguous title, for it contains a hymn in which Funnyness seems to be praised, but in reality all kinds of human folly are denounced. Less known is the Praise of longevity of the Leuven professor Rik Torfs. In his book published in 2006, he denounced the flaws of our time. The Praise of longevity: what exactly is longevity? It points to the characteristic that much can be admitted or allowed. Synonyms for long-suffering are: accommodating, indulgent, tolerant. Madam President. Have we not been too patient, too accommodating, too tolerant in our country in recent years? Is it not time for us to put an end to the undermining of our society, our democracy, our rule of law, organised crime? Our Dutch tolerant attitude towards drug use took legal form in the 1970s in the tolerance policy around the coffeeshops. It's already been memorized here. The Minister of the Party, the CDA, is very pleased to be mentioned. We have about 600 coffeeshops in our country. Every self-respecting town does have one. Bigger cities have five to ten. And our capital has 167. The idea behind the coffee shop policy was to separate the market for hard drugs from the market for soft drugs. We know better by now. It's just been said. Soft drugs have gotten harder. In the nineties, cannabis sold in coffee shops contained 8% THC. For years, this has been around 20%. In Cahier's police studies, the recent head of the National Detectives, Wilbert Paulissen, pointed out that although there is an image that the policy of tolerance only concerns soft drugs, the use of cocaine and synthetic drugs has also been tolerated step by step. That's what the head of our national detective says. According to the written prosecution policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office of 2015 no targeted detection of the use of hard drugs is carried out, nor is there any insurance. The CDA Group wonders how it could have gotten this far. How could it have come so far that a civilized country like the Netherlands has become a source country for drugs? How could it have come so far that our capital is flooded by foreign tourists who are no longer attracted by the Amsterdam canals or the paintings of Rembrandt van Rijn, but by its dominant become unique selling point, our tolerant drug climate? More and more often you hear noises that Amsterdammers flee their city because of the nuisance these drug tourists cause. This is not the country the CDA wants to pass on to your children and our grandchildren. Then the question before us today is whether draft law 34997, which proposes to experiment in ten municipalities with the production and sale of legal weed, is a step in the right direction. My group has serious doubts about this. These are on three levels. At the level of the project itself and its design, at the level of the effects envisaged with the experiments, the impact and, more fundamentally, whether the cabinet is doing the right things, or whether something else has to be done. And perhaps also the more fundamental issue for us: do we not open the door with these experiments to further normalization of drug use, towards ultimately legalization? Let me be clear. That's not the way the CDA wants to go. We in the CDA represent a better Netherlands, where values are respected, a country where we do not tolerate our democracy, our rule of law being undermined. A country with a strong society and a fair economy, with a government that dares to say no to indecent, indefatigable and individualism. A country where the law of the strongest does not apply. Madam President. This bill is a step forward. Understand me correctly: a step forward towards further standardisation, leading to legalisation, whereas the spirit of the time indicates that we must take a step back towards awareness and discouragement. More about this later, but first let me return to the bill itself, to the experiments. The fact that my group is not eager to vote in favour of this proposal was already reflected in our critical questions during the written debate. Questions about the limited design of the experiments, the small number of municipalities, the short lead time. And: who will pay for the costs, the implementation costs, but also any damages claims? Doubts about the legality, feasibility and enforcement of this bill. Because didn't the Council of State write that the experiments are probably in violation of international law? And if the experiments were successful, then according to the same Council of State, final regulation is in any case contrary to treaties signed by the Netherlands. Why, so we ask the pressure-taking Minister for Justice and Security, would we even begin to do so? It may also be assumed with certainty that legally produced weed will be more expensive than illegal. Then why would users choose to do this? Moreover, the diversity of the offer in the current coffee shops is greater than that required by the legislative proposal for legalised cultivation. Users seek that diversity and will do everything in their power to continue to get this wider offer. Ergo, there remains a parallel illegal market. Do the rulers really think that the legal and illegal weed flows are to be kept separate? It is really not the case that we in the CDA Group do not want to see that the experiments are pursuing noble aims. The cabinet aims to improve public health and reduce crime. Who could be against that? However, it is the task of the First Chamber not only to watch over those three aspects that we always like to mention here, but also for the delusion of the day, for wishful thinking, for symbolic politics. Hence my group's question to the cabinet as to why, if it wants to serve public health, it has not been chosen to set a ceiling for the THC content of the legally produced weed. Does the Cabinet really believe that the experiments will lead to a reduction in crime? A recent visit by a delegation from the Dutch police to Canada has shown that legalisation has not directly led to a reduction in drug crime. Professor Tops says: "For the time being, it is still a big question whether the legal system in Canada will be up to the power and size of the illegal system." We read it in the report that was given to us yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u27	A question to colleague Rombouts. You're talking about Canada. In an earlier part of your speech, you said: if we continue with the Dutch policy of tolerance towards legalisation, that would be contrary to international treaties. Now you're quoting Canada. Canada's legalized it. Why could Canada be legalized, and would that not be contrary to the same conventions that Canada and the Netherlands are party to, and would that apply to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u28	If your neighbor jumps into the ditch, you don't have to do it yourself. We have to deal with international conventions according to our own standards and values. In the debate that has been going on for years now, for example, Minister Opstelten has repeatedly said that the path that mayors want to take with this type of experiment is contrary to international treaties, and we simply do not want to hear the answer anymore. That is why I say: 'begin before you begin', because it may be that the Council of State does not say very harshly that this experimental law is contrary to international treaties, but presumably it is, because of course it is a matter of temporaryity and experiments. In any case, however, you can see from the advice of the Council of State of recent years that, if we want to achieve definitive regulation, there is a conflict with international treaties. Even if another would want to do so, in violation of signed treaties, you shouldn't want to do so as a former judge, should you, Mr. Dittrich?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u29	I am indeed looking at the legal power of treaties. If the Netherlands continues on the road of legalization, for which I have not really heard anyone here argue, then I do not understand why the Netherlands would get turned upside down that would be contrary to the same international treaty to which Canada is a party. Canada is legalized, that is a fact, and there is no one to say to Canada: this is contrary to the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u30	I hear what you're saying and I gave my answer. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u32	I come to a second aspect when we look at the impact of these experiments. On the one hand, the experience in the one country that has already gone further is not yet encouraging. In our country, we can also see that 80% to 90% of the pot produced here is intended for export. So exports to Dutch people in Dutch coffeeshops will hardly contribute to that. My question to the rulers is: why is this going to work in our country, knowing that 80% to 90% of the weed produced here is intended for export, whereas this does not help other experiments at all? Today we have a very long way to go, and we are doing so until last night when we look at the way in which these experiments are to be set up and at the effects that they are intended to have. But then we are talking about whether we are doing things, the experiments, right and not about whether we are doing the right things, whether the cabinet is putting its time and energy into the right things. The recent murder of the lawyer Derk Wiersum, a recent worrying investigation by the Trimbos Institute and a ditto report by Tops and Tromp on the situation in Amsterdam have helped to make the call in the Netherlands for an offensive against the disruptive consequences of the undermining drug crime increasingly louder. I say 'part', because not only in Amsterdam, but also in other larger and smaller cities of our country has been experiencing nuisance for years; today in the newspaper in the east of the country. But the stories of Brabant are of course very well known to you and me. There we experience nuisances from drug trafficking, excessive drug use and the undermining effects of the associated crime. Let me share with you three practical examples. I thought my colleague Janssen did the same. They're examples I've been through up close, but three. As mayor of the Brabant capital, I am more than familiar with the stories of neighborhood residents about selling drugs to minors before their eyes. I also know the stories of police officers, who sometimes performed week after week against nightlife and football violence, but did not get a hold of these fighters, even when using the baton, because these wheeldrivers were stiff of drugs and booze. And I remember the countless times that on Sunday afternoon you could set the clock to it at three, four o'clock the phone rang, and I said to my wife: I'll remember what time it is. Then I was called by the police to impose a restraining order on men who, after a Saturday night drinking and sniffing their wife or girlfriend had beaten up or dragged their hair through the living room. Domestic violence, not uncommon in front of their young children. Resale to minors, violence against police officers and domestic violence: only three examples from Bossche practice. Looking at the Netherlands, Madam President, we see pot plantations in residential areas; drug labs in barns in rural areas; drug-dealing motorcycle clubs; hand grenades in coffee shops; liquidations in broad daylight; threats to administrators, prosecutors, policemen and journalists; vulnerable young people sucked into drug crime. Here is a small sketch of drug-related criminal Netherlands in 2019, a country in which the underworld is gaining more and more control over the upper world. In this respect, no country to pass on pride. A country with a capital which, according to Tops and Tromp, has become the European driving force for cocaine and other drugs trafficking. Amsterdam, a city that according to journalist Roberto Saviano is worse than Naples when it comes to money laundering. A city also where numerous clans from Eastern Europe have settled, because the Dutch system is so beneficial to them. "They are here," says Saviano, "because you allow it. Your tolerance policy, which in fact amounts to the absence of rules, has certainly not helped." In the Netherlands, Madam President, all transit lines to the rest of Europe begin. This is where billions of dollars are made in drug smuggling. Tops and Tromp calculated that the earning model in Amsterdam is so extensive that it corrupts financial relations and that it should appeal to GroenLinks to disrupt social relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u33	I think it is a very interesting story by Mr Rombouts, and I think that indeed many of it also appeal to us and that it is a problem that needs to be addressed. Of course, you are talking about your own speaking time and what you want to address when dealing with a draft law, but I would like to know exactly what the connection is with the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. This is seen in an experiment in the field of hash and weed and not in the whole approach of undermining. Now I understand that your hook is: it should be about that. I've seen a few of them before. So the question is: how do you see this connection? You mention a number of things that I think are also related to soft drugs, such as pot plantations in residential areas. Then you should experiment with regulated cultivation, because that is a solution. Secondly, if I take a look at what you are saying, I have the impression that you use the word 'tolerance policy', on which you refer to various experts, in two different ways. Those experts you mentioned were mainly talking about the policy of tolerance in the field of tax avoidance and money laundering, rather than about the policy of tolerance in soft drugs. Is that right? And can you explain that a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u34	Thank you for these interesting questions. Of course, I expected the first question, didn't I? The design of my story I admit that even though it is just a bit more than this bill. I'm glad the maiden president hasn't hammered me off yet. I'm also glad I'm getting the room to say the following. If you're trying to put this bill metaphorically, it's watching people do it, watching the cabinet replace the back door of a house, while that house is in flames. Then it doesn't make much sense to replace the back door. We are not saying that this bill does not serve noble purposes. We can talk about that later, but I wanted to paint the context of the house here today. I'm working on it. In that sense, that's a hook. Maybe it's a sought-after hook at the moment, but anyone who understands the spirit of the time of what has happened in the Netherlands in recent months and what has caused it in the media, in society, can't help but look beyond that little tool of pot experiments. Then there is the policy of tolerance intended to separate the soft drug and hard drug markets. I told you, our soft drug policy isn't as soft as it looks. The soft drugs have been over the decades it's been a long time since Minister Van Agt had become Minister of Justice much harder. Experts point out to me that I have consulted quite a few people in the run-up to this, and that the mixing of the soft drugs market and the hard drugs market has become so huge that we do not know ourselves anymore and that everyone is embarrassed with what to do. To just say, this bill is about cannabis, so it all has to be possible... Those last words are not from the CDA at all, that it should all be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u35	At the risk of me going along with it myself to talk about something else, the following. I also meant this. You quoted the Italian professor whose name I don't have ready, but you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u36	Well, it's a journalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u37	That journalist mentioned the policy of tolerance in the Netherlands. You quoted it and my question was: was he no longer talking about financial tolerance policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u38	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u39	That was my specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u40	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u41	Sorry, Madam President. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u42	The answer to the second question is still awaited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u43	You're right. You are right that, if you read it too fleetingly and tell it on too fleetingly, it seems as if Amsterdam is complete Naples. That's not what Salviano says about us. But he does say: you are world champions in money laundering, and all this happens in Amsterdam and it happens to Dutch people, and not to foreigners who sometimes blame you for what goes wrong in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u44	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u45	I will. Drug crime, as Mr Tops and Mr Tromp pointed out, is particularly affecting the vulnerable subclass. This deepens the social divide between them and the rest of society. The pleasure is to the carefree users and the pain comes, they write, to the weak parts of the city. On a national scale, the center of drug use is in the capital and the weed plantations and the xtc labs, not to mention the waste, located in the regions, to a large extent in the South. This is not a country to give pride to next generations. That is what the Minister for Justice and Security and the Mayor of Amsterdam now believe, as witnessed by the fact that they both announced, in one week and the same week, an offensive against the disruptive effects of drug-related, undermining crime. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u46	Mr Dittrich has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u47	Madam President, I would like a response from Mr Rombouts to one of the conclusions of the Tops and Tromp report. I quote them: "As we advocated in our Amsterdam report, the national government must prepare itself for controlled forms of legalisation of drugs." That is what you have already mentioned a few times in the report. Could you also reflect on that conclusion of Tops and Tromp? You're always picking out a few things, but I can't hear you about their advice to the government to go into controlled regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u48	We can do that all right here, eh? Get out of reports that suit us well. I am happy to agree with you on that. Indeed, I emphasise the things that come out in my story. But it's not like Tops and Tromp have advocated legalization. No expert would argue that. It's always put in the context of other things that have to happen. What my story actually comes down to when you sum it up very briefly is: ladies and gentlemen, we can vote on this bill next week, but let us realize that it is a small part of something that is much larger and which requires the attention of all of us. I have argued here a few times in recent years that much more needs to be done and that it should be maintained much longer. First steps are now being taken, as I just said. The mayor of Amsterdam has announced an offensive in not only repression but also social resilience; very well. Our minister pleaded the same national case about a day later. Yesterday he announced new actions. I would like to tell you through the chairman, Mr Dittrich, that we also attach great importance to the fact that if we have to sell weed, it is controlled weed, because it is better for the health of those who use it. For us, however, there is, of course, a thought that I have already heard from Mrs Bikker and which means that you are actually going one step further in accepting standardisation even further. We say: we must no longer accept everything that has happened to us in recent years since the introduction of the tolerance policy simply, laconically and patiently. Let us see if we can also agree on this, you know, through the President, that I have also called on you to perhaps ask for other measures from this government than simply to replace the back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u49	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u50	I do. Then why build such an experiment circus to repair the back door when the house is on fire is the next question. We appreciate the efforts of this Minister of Justice and Security to tackle the undermining very much, but let us not waste time and do the good things. Surely the Minister cannot be unaware that the social climate is changing and that the support for the normalization of drug use is crumbling? More and more people want the government no longer to accept the idea of "it's the way it is" and "there's nothing left to do about it" or "you can't get it out of it." My group does not want to surrender to this kind of fatalistic thought. She wants the government to launch a campaign with the slogan "say no to drugs." Drugs aren't normal. Also cannabis is not an innocent drug, the Trimbos Institute has been telling you and me for years, especially when it is used at a young age or structurally. In a 2016 report, which provided insight into the state of science, this authoritative institute lists the potentially harmful effects of the use of cannabis. I mention only three: motor coordination disorders, a change in brain development and the risk of psychotic disorders. Last month, the Trimbos Institute also reported that more and more Dutch people end up in hospital after drug use. Some are introduced into comatose conditions and need intensive monitoring. There can be no doubt that the Institute speaks of a worrying development and notes that the risk of drug use has not been sufficiently addressed to public health. And so this wasn't just about recording after using hard drugs. No, even after using cannabis. Together with the murder of lawyer Derk Wiersum and the report by Tops and Tromp on Amsterdam, this investigation has accelerated thinking differently about the fight against drug-related undermining. Madam President. Let us use this momentum for another course. For an ambitious multi-annual programme not to eradicate organised crime, but at least to reduce and make it manageable. Let us acknowledge that, yes, we all do not know what our policy is anymore. Soft drugs must not be produced...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mr Rombouts, before you brag: there is a question from Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought we were doing a rounding, but that rounding takes a long time, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u53	Sorry, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u54	...but the question I wanted to ask. I fully agree with you that organised crime is a major threat, but the debate is only very side-by-side. The debate is about an experiment. If I listen to the CDA correctly, the CDA is a great fan of or believe the CDA at least in the beneficial effect of criminalising markets. However, the experiment goes the other way: see if you can arrange the back door. Then it must take a lot to get the CDA to vote in favour. What exactly does it take? What do the ministers have to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u55	That's what I was trying to tell you. Sorry I didn't see your question coming; I was too focused on my text. Indeed, faith is a little more in the genes than you, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u56	I suggest that you continue with your speech and keep an eye on the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u57	Yes, Madam President, I do. I didn't ask for 20 minutes for nothing either. I assume that interruptions under this President do not go away from speaking time either. Let us acknowledge that we do not know what our policies are anymore. Soft drugs may not be produced, but they may be sold in coffee shops. Hard drugs are forbidden, but they are not enforced. At dance festivals you will be warned of the dangers of taking pills, but you can have them checked at the GGD free of charge. The government wants to experiment with the production and sale of legal weed, but banks do not want to finance the producers, afraid of the same government, which urges them not to launder criminal money. Police and Public Prosecutor's Office must maintain a standard that is not socially acceptable. So let us not think that there are quick solutions, not even this one way of experimenting. According to Professor Boutellier, they are not there either, otherwise we would have applied them a long time ago. Boutellier recently called for the strengthening of enforcement and detection within a more comprehensive programme of political-moral reorientation. In his view, the policy of tolerance in the 1970s has created a morally ambiguous situation which has created a breeding ground for illegal production and trade. And that led to a long-suffering attitude among citizens, politicians, judges and enforcers, with the result that drug use is normalized. In his farewell address, Boutellier says that three things are needed: strengthening the capacity and quality of detectives, a social and social offensive in neighborhoods and a social debate on drug policy. According to Boutellier, in this country we must have the courage to go out for the last year. He proposes discussion tables such as the Climate Agreement. Sit around the table with sensitive industries to work together on sustainable and worn solutions: with coffee shop owners, organizers of dance festivals, banks, notaries, the car industry and others. Emeritus professor Fijnaut emphasises the building of a sustainable and solid organisation with perseverance and a long-term approach. The divided and fragmented policy must be replaced by a national plan with sufficient people, resources, powers and patience. This problem is so big, says this top expert, that it won't be solved in a few years. Also Professor Tops...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u58	Mr. Rombouts, I've allowed you to speak for two more minutes. I now ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u59	That's what I'm gonna do. Madam President. It is clear that we are facing a huge task. For too long we have left the developments on their course, long-suffering as we were. It is a good thing that the Minister of Justice and Security will come up with an undermining law and that he will have 100 million to work on this. Today, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to call for an ambitious multi-annual programme of Deltaplan-like size and a similar lead time, perhaps driven by a Delta Commissioner. To this end, I would like to make a motion, including on behalf of the groups of the Christian Union, 50PLUS and the SGP. I'd be happy to hand it over to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u60	It is used to submit motions in the second term and to wait for the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u61	That may be customary, Mr President, but I could not quite recite my text because you were right to keep me to the time. My text said that I deliberately do this in the first period, because I am a little behind in the queue of speakers and I would like to give colleagues the opportunity to respond to this in the second period. Otherwise, all the speakers have already been twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u62	Please hold your position while we pronounce the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u63	Thank you. The President shall: Mr Rombouts, Mr Bikker, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Wely proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that our society, democracy and the rule of law are seriously threatened by the growing mix of sub- and sub-worlds;]] [[Whereas following the recent murder of lawyer Derk Wiersum and a recent worrying reconnaissance of Tops and Tromp, the call for an offensive against the disruptive consequences of the undermining drug crime is becoming increasingly louder;]] [[noting that experts agree that there are no quick, let alone simple solutions;]] [[calls on the Government to present in the short term a Delta Plan against undermining drug crime and undermining in the broad sense, which includes measures and means to strengthen the investigation and resilience of neighbourhoods and which address sensitive sectors on their responsibility and raise awareness of vulnerable groups of the health risks of drugs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34997-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-4.u64	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
