ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is Mrs Thieme's farewell. Where's Mrs Thieme? She can't just leave. Welcome, Mrs Thieme! The next item is Mrs Thieme's farewell to the Animal Party. I'll start with her suicide note. I warn you: it is a letter from Mrs Thieme, not from me. 'Dear President, dear Khadija, 22 November 2006 was a historic day; for the first time in political history a party was elected for the animals in a national parliament. No one expected it, yet it happened: the Party for Animals entered the Chamber with two seats. Esther Ouwehand and I were told at the installation that we would be accompanied by clerk Linda Kipp. We didn't expect that. Our decision to establish the Party for Animals was motivated by the hardening of the climate for animals under Balkenende I. In three months' time, that cabinet wiped out almost all the animal welfare and environmental measures that the Green Movement had fought so hard for. Without any significant protest from the animal-friendly parties. It was the proverbial drop. I am proud that we have made the protection of animals, nature and the environment much higher on the political agenda. That in 2007 we could premiere the first Dutch climate documentary: Meat the Truth. That the Minister of Agriculture accused us that the film was one big lie, ordered research by Wageningen University into our claims and had to fetch tarpaulin because everything was right. That it is now well known that livestock farming is one of the biggest causes of climate change. That in 2013 we managed to shut down the auction of nature reserves by the cabinet, by calling on voters and members to deposit money to buy nature free. And I can go on like this for a while. After thirteen years of parliamentary membership, I can say that almost all the MPs I have met are hard-working and driven women and men. Without involvement in the public interest, however filled in, it is impossible to make the commitment required by the Parliamentary Assembly. However, people are right to accuse the Chamber of being too concerned with technical detail and incidents. It was also sometimes painful to see the ideological flexibility of parties that went from opposition to government and back again. In the opposition, we are arguing for fewer megasthals and if the government party does the opposite. And that happened just as easily with referendums, free trade treaties or the loan system. But I have also experienced the substance of the Chamber. As a place where politicians have the courage to be persuaded by the better argument. I am referring to the plenary sitting of our legislative initiative on unsedated slaughter. When we filed it in 2008, no one gave it a chance. In 2011, there was a majority in the Chamber who felt that the freedom of religion is not absolute and should be limited if it is at the expense of animals. Martijn van Dam, then PvdA spokesperson, said that he had rarely experienced such a substantive debate in the Chamber. I can only confirm that; it was one of the highlights of my parliamentary membership. I have also been pleasantly surprised by the recent General Political Reviews: so many group chairmen who were willing to think outside the narrow limits of the feasible. I hope that thirteen years of system criticism by the Animal Party has contributed to this. How wonderful it would be for people's representatives to throw off the yoke of technocracy and ask themselves more often why things are as they are, and whether they can't be different. We are seriously failing voters if we regard globalisation, economic growth and economies of scale as natural phenomena and not as results of political choices that we can change. As chairman of the political group, I wanted to conduct a policy based on what is possible rather than what is feasible. Politics that does not comply with the bandwidth defined by the Central Planning Bureau and too often take over the cabinet and the press without hesitation. Politics with its own agenda, with its own problem definitions and solutions. Politics that is not about bringing in short-term successes, but using all the political instruments from a full-scale world view to realize the ideals. And I'm not talking about seat numbers, motions and cabinet participation, but about assignments, convincing and mobilizing. Political success, as far as I am concerned, is not so much about power, but mainly about influence, to call attention to the abuses you fight and to be an inspiration to others. Thirteen years I've done that full of surrender in the Chamber. A year and a half before the next election, it's time to turn over the baton. My fight against the great injustice that animals are being harmed will never end. I'm gonna take it elsewhere. I'm closing up. The year we celebrate a century of women's right to vote, I would like to make an urgent appeal to all parties to raise the number of women on the list in the next election. I would like to thank all the staff of the House of Representatives who have assisted me with advice and deed. Finally, I wish all Members of Parliament a great deal of imagination and opportunity. The future of our planet depends on the decisions you make. Idealism is the new realism. Furthermore, I believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped. Greetings, Marianne Thieme."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Mrs Thieme, dear Marianne, Last Tuesday the following post was posted on the De Speld website: "Hundreds of tractors today caused traffic jams and disturbances around The Hague. They were on their way to Marianne Thieme's farewell. The group chairman of the Party for the Animals is waving off and was put in the spotlight by the farmers one more time. The festivities started with some disturbances. The interest in goodbye proved to be greater than expected." This message makes it clear that your goodbye didn't go unnoticed. After you announced your departure last week at the party congress, a lot of articles about your time have appeared as group chairman. I read some great stories about the run-up to Parliament and your first time. You told me about it at the presentation of your book Growing Resistance earlier this year. In 2003 there was a fuss about whether Maarten 't Hart was allowed to be a list pusher on the electoral list. That's why the Party for the Animals went to the Council of State. Suddenly you got a call from Harry Mulisch. "May Maarten not be on the list?', He asked. "Ridiculous! Then may I?" Technically, that was too late, but Harry Mulisch wanted to come to the meeting of the Council of State. And so you suddenly sat in your Nissan Primera with in the back seat Maarten 't Hart and Harry Mulisch. While one said to the other, "Gosh, have your books been translated into Norwegian as well?', You thought, "What the hell did I end up in? I feel like I'm in a movie!" On November 22, 2006, the Party for the Animals came out of nowhere with two seats in the House of Representatives. You were toured by "She's sitting next to me "Linda Kipp of the Griffin; that's what you mentioned in your letter. In an interview, you said you thought it was arranged especially for you. It wasn't. You entered the Chamber blankly, without political experience, but with great ideals. Compassion and sustainability, that in your view should be the guiding principles of everyone individually, of society as a whole and here in our plenary Chamber. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration of Animal Rights and the Charter of Earth are, in your words, the source documents for your political action. They are deliberately chosen because they connect people with different backgrounds. Your maiden speech in 2006 was about refugee residence permits. You started your argument with: "After the chilly period in which many weaker people in society, people and animals, have unnecessarily gotten into trouble, there is a need for warmth." You ended with the famous words with which you just concluded your last letter, free to the Roman senator and writer Cato, who concluded every speech in the same way: "I also believe that Carthage should be destroyed." The point is that you have to repeat important things, because it makes your story stronger and stronger. That's what you've been holding on to. In the Chamber you immediately found an ally in Dion Graus, but many others initially looked at the Party for Animals with a bit of dedain. You said yourself: "For example, if there was a debate about the Walrus submarines, someone always said: now the animal girls have to pay attention." I think we can say that as a parliament we have never debated as much climate, environment, nature and animal as we do today. You and your colleagues played a big part in that. From meat consumption to agricultural poison, from plastic packaging to a ban on the fish bowl: you put it on the agenda. As one of the highlights of your time as a Member of Parliament, you mention your initiative proposal and the debate on the unspoilt ritual slaughter, which was eventually voted for by 116 MPs, and which is now up to date again. Another well-known statement from Cato is that you will know it, Marianne was: "Control the subject, the words will come naturally." You always knew what you were talking about, knew all the numbers and statistics, and it didn't matter who you were talking to. But you were also clear about what you didn't talk about. On Prince's Day, you told your story with no words. We've seen a hunter's uniform, a dress with all the names of vegetarian and vegan meat substitutes, a high hat with "man-man-man" on it, and an ammo belt of summer roots. Last year, your last Princess Day as MP, you were wearing an insect dress. You combined the role of campaigner with that of politicians. Driven, determined, passionate and fiery, and sometimes a little bit improved, I say. Thirteen years and 24 election campaigns, you were the face of the Party for Animals. Now you let others hear the sound of the game. At least, here in parliament. Because, as you yourself say in your letter, your fight for animal rights and against globalisation and economic growth continues. I am sorry to see another experienced MP leave in the interim, and one of the two female group chairmen. But on behalf of the Chamber, I would like to thank you so much for your commitment in recent years. And we're not the only ones who want to thank you properly. His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you Knight of the Order of Orange Nassau. I'd like to ask you to step forward so that I can pin down the decorations that come with this appointment. Once again, thank you very much on behalf of the entire Chamber. Thank you. And good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
