ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u1	We are dealing with the budget Education, Culture and Science and we were in the middle of the first term from the side of the Chamber. We have arrived at Mr Kwint's contribution on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you. And then education stopped again. A last-minute attempt to avoid the strike failed fatally, just like it failed last year. Minister Slob is on his way to becoming the most well-known minister of this cabinet. The teachers were crystal clear: fun, one-time money, but we won't let them buy us off. There must be a structural solution to a structural problem. And they're right. Of course, it is a good thing that extra money will be provided once for education, which is urgently needed. But let's walk past the demands and wishes of recent times. Special education is the only sector that really gets multiannual funding now, and that is quite right. These people are perhaps doing the hardest work you can imagine and are less rewarded for it than their colleagues in secondary education. I talked about it earlier this morning with a few colleagues, but why hasn't it been decided to close the whole pay gap? In recent years, you've seen every MP struggling to explain why a teacher in secondary special education earns less than a teacher in the rest of secondary education. Now there's money, but the gap isn't closed. Once again, it is fine that this money is added, but how are you going to deal with the shortage of teachers in this sector if the heavy work for a teacher in secondary special education is still paid less than the work of his colleague two blocks away? Then move on to the rest of the deal. This year, schools will receive 300 million more on a one-off basis. Again, 300 million is better than nothing. But what do we expect schools to do with this? You're not gonna hire a janitor, an education assistant or a new teacher, because the money's gonna be gone soon. What does the Cabinet expect schools to do with this? What we do know is what the teachers want: a harder approach to the shortage of teachers, a decent reward, a view of a more enjoyable and feasible profession and finally feeling heard. Teachers don't feel heard. Not that they shouldn't come to the ministry, but really hear it; feeling that at the end of the conversation you really have the hope that something will improve. I say this with pain in my heart, but a lot of people don't believe that. They don't believe they're being heard, they don't believe our education is going in the right direction, despite their efforts every day. Honestly, the SP fears they're right. That is why we support the strikers, which is why we have supported them on location throughout the country with MPs and other activists of ours. Our people are present in places throughout the country today, and we will continue to support you as long as necessary. And it is necessary, because education is in crisis. Webcam lecturers, classes of 60 students, classes sent home, you can't imagine if it's happened in our education in recent years. But The Hague remains deaf to the needs of our masters and teachers. That's why we want to be their voice in parliament today, for example the voice of a teacher at a high school in Den Bosch who told us: "Just because of the things that run so well in our school we have more care students than average; something The Hague should like, because it fits well with the appropriate education. As a result, the pressure in the classes increases enormously and you notice that you are not trained to provide specific care. Solutions must now often be found in calling the management to get some rest in the classroom, whether you focus on the care pupils and leave the rest of the students to themselves. I'm up against my limits. I go home every day with the feeling that I have failed at least one child because there was no time, space or skill to really help. That's breaking up." Or a teacher from secondary special education, I mentioned earlier: "I earn less than my colleagues elsewhere in secondary education. I teach 990 clock hours, and a teacher in secondary education teaches 750 hours a year. This difference means that specialist teachers hardly want to go to secondary special education. In addition, there is no more replacement and sharing with our students is often not an option. Because of the cuts we have gone from ten to thirteen pupils per class in recent years. That doesn't sound much, but feel free to sit around for a week and experience how much that is." Let me start with that last one. I have just said about special education, but when are we going to close the pay gap and when are we going to give those people the salary they are entitled to? The other side of this medal is in regular education. Classes that are disrupted by the harmful combination of class size and care demand. It takes months for you to get the support you're asking for. It sometimes takes up to a year until a child can attend special education. Why? Among other things, because this cabinet refuses to make it possible to open new schools for special education. And not just that. In this way it is also blocked that classes for special primary education arise within regular education, just within the current school. That is not to be paid. Will the Minister remove that blockade after all? I was just talking to the VVD about it. I've said it before: relieve the teacher; grant immediate support. The Chamber talks about trusting the professional all the time, but in the meantime, half the discovery of heaven needs to be prescribed before you finally get the support you need in your classroom. Trust that teacher. He doesn't ask for help for fun. First, you need support and then you need to check that it went well. Is the Minister prepared to do so? A teacher at an elementary school told me this. "In 2002, I started in the seventh grade. Then there were 36 students, and the year after 30. I couldn't get through the piles of work. I probably wanted too much for the students entrusted to me. I stopped being disillusioned. In 2016 I gave it another chance, because I really want to be master. So with adapted expectations and above all a three-year probation period imposed on me, I'm back in a elementary school in front of the class. And it works, though I experience this job as a lot heavier than the work of the past few years. If the teacher shortage gets bigger in the coming years and that's what the starters won't survive their first three years. Our responsibility cannot be greater: didactically we lay the first foundation. Appreciate this. If that solution doesn't come now, every teacher will fall." Karin, lecturer and also grandma, let us know: "My beautiful course has become a paper tiger without teeth. Where my time used to go to preparing classes, it now goes to administration. It's not all trouble and torment. Teaching is the funniest, most varied, most exciting work I can think of. Not a day, not a lesson, not a child is the same. But I've made the choice to quit this beautiful business at 59 years old. I don't want to end my beautiful years of education with a burn-out." The love of the profession was not so hard to find in all the stories that were sent to us. For these stories, I could have told ten more. Everyone loves the job. In fact, nobody really thinks the salary is the most important, but it is an indispensable way to finally get more colleagues. By the way, I like the background music from the phone I'm hearing. I really had the hope that this budget would provide a structural improvement. There were press releases on extra money and the Prime Minister named it one of his 132 top priorities, but every serious proposal from the Chamber was rejected. And then there seemed to be an agreement, but that was with one-off money. Luckily, the teachers were smarter than that and they stopped today. In the NRC we could read what went wrong, and it's more bewildering than you could have imagined: they just forgot to ask. Teachers are the victims of a game of political poker, in which everyone wanted extra structural money for the teacher, but nobody dared ask because they wanted some more. Everyone was watching D66. D66 looked at the other three parties. I am asking the cabinet here today, but also the coalition parties: is this true? Is the story we were able to read at the NRC correct? How serious do you think a teacher would feel if he had to read this in the paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Kwint, you're way past your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's not right, Mr. Chairman. I had 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u5	Okay, then it's fine. We had seven minutes here. That's good to know, because otherwise you'll get into a fight with your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u6	I wouldn't want that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u7	Fortunately, Mr Kwint has even more speaking time, because I always like to listen to him when he gives a summary of all the problems that exist in the country. Following his call to tell us what the problems are, people have informed him about them well again. That's good. The reason I ever went into politics is to deal with these kinds of problems. And that's kind of tricky, I can tell you, especially if you're trying to take responsibility. I was wondering if there was an e-mail among the e-mails that Mr Kwint received asking: and what has the SP actually meant for education over the past 30 years, except that she has listened to our problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u8	Those e-mails were definitely in there, yeah. I have therefore sent these people a good answer with all the proposals we have made in recent years, from abolishing the lump sum to combating the cuts in the introduction of appropriate education, from the fight for the maintenance of the loan system to raising salaries as I will propose later. That's what I've been telling all these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u9	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u10	Sure, but did you explain that none of this was successful because you never really took responsibility for making those choices? Even when the SP had 25 seats with Jan Marijnissen........................................................................................................ We prefer to stand aside and we prefer to run the copier for another motion and another proposal."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u12	In your counter-budget, you don't even mention education. This cabinet invests more in education than you have in your election program. Would you just let people know that instead of just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u14	...to tell you about the problems...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u16	... and people are offering a cup of soup all over the country the SP vans again? If the teachers really want to achieve something...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Van Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u18	...then something must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Van Meenen, this will be your last interruption if it goes this way. Really. This is way too long, way too long!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u20	It was a lot of questions indeed. Let me get some out of you. I find the issue of the counter-budget extremely faint. It stands for 2 billion for wage increases in the public sector. I don't have to explain to you that teachers belong to the public sector, do I? At least they know that perfectly well themselves. Let's start with that. Next, I find it a very strange task for a Member of Parliament to say: yes, we are having debates here all day. I can tell you the truth: I was here at 1:15 last night. There are many debates here. But what really matters is, how do you really do your job, is to make such an agreement and then keep the letter of that agreement neatly for four years and not change anything about it. That's a strange notion of politics, isn't it? What are we doing here all day, I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u21	Well, I think you made your point, Mr. Van Meenen. I really need to speed this up a little bit. You've been interrupting a lot. You're not the only one, but you're one of the MPs who's been most interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u22	They're always great stories, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u23	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u24	Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u25	Yeah, really. If you keep it short, you'll have an opportunity to interrupt. But just to bring up the whole history and make introductions... That's not going well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u26	No, but it's important, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u28	We're not talking to each other like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u29	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u30	... but we're talking to all those people who are listening right now, who have real concerns and who want those concerns to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u31	But they can't say anything back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u32	No, they can't say anything back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u33	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u34	But Mr Kwint is their spokesman, he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u35	No, we're all people's representatives. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u36	Yeah, but that's what he says. I'll talk to him about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yeah, but it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u38	I'll leave it at that. I wouldn't want to annoy you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u39	Neu, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u40	Worse. Excuse me. It's all about telling the honest story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u41	Okay. You made that clear. I suggest you move on, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yeah, I'm just gonna get on with the honest story. Meanwhile, a crisis in slow motion is taking place in secondary education. Why? Because the agreement is partly defined by teachers who do not have the good papers suddenly no longer "unqualified" but "appointable." Of course, that makes very little difference to class practice. Is the Minister prepared to show how many lessons are given in total by unauthorized and appointed teachers? In our opinion, the deficit in secondary education is much greater than a lot of people think. That's what a high school teacher e-mailed us: "I don't do full-time work anymore. That's really hard to keep up if you want to be there for your own kids and husband. I see people leaving education again because they can't keep up. I see young people heading towards a burnout. At the end of the week I'm all up and during the holidays I'm often sick for the first few days." Michel, another teacher in high school, says: "What I want for education is more teachers, more supervisors, more resources. I want a government that sees teachers as an essential part of a well-functioning society and that is right behind its teachers. More respect for the profession, a field in which knowledge, skills and talent are needed." Mr. Chairman. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the proposals. When reckless behavior of bankers plunged us into a deep crisis, we all had to pay for it. People lost their jobs, their homes, came on the zero line for years. The public sector was stripped. Meanwhile, we read in the newspaper that the banks make record profits on the Zuidas. That could be a little less. And then I express myself very kindly, because I don't want to upset the chairman. I think that is important, Mr President! That can be a little less, especially since the people there have an interest in well-educated children. I remember them well: demonstrations there with signs saying "let the banks pay for the crisis." Unfortunately, that never really happened. So we can still settle that. That is why we have an amendment. We propose to increase the bank tax by one billion. They can really spare that. The profits last year were 11 billion for the four largest Dutch banks alone. They'll get over it. With that money you not only solve the pay gap and not only solve the unfair salary in secondary special education, but you give the whole foundation education an extra wage increase: primary or secondary school, regular or special. And why? Because our teachers deserve that and because it is very much necessary to tackle the educational crisis that is afflicting our country. Dare to make a radical choice, but not one such as the cabinet recently made for schools, namely to put one parent in front of the classroom and to do video lessons. So I am referring to a radical and positive choice. A choice for the teacher, who is now drowning, and for the student, who otherwise does not learn to spell or calculate. Is the cabinet prepared to stop using these test balloons and Band-Aids that sometimes pissed teachers off so much and which have touched those teachers to the depths of their professional? Do you want to make a radical choice? Then make it free of charge, ban temporary employment agencies in education and require management to finally give a teacher a permanent contract over time. But stop making those negative choices; intervene in them. Later today, the defense spokesmen of the Chamber will take over. Then the billions here fly through the hall; in the case of the JSF that is literally the case. The billions for the submarines will come after that. Yesterday it was announced that the Netherlands has more millionaires and billionaires than ever before. Last year the Dutch banks made record profits. So let no one here today say that it is simply too expensive, that we have to choose in scarcity and that it has been enough. Minister and Chamber, do not choose submarines today, but teachers. Choose not the billionaires from the Quote, but the students from Rotterdam-Zuid. Do not opt for ABN and ING, but for the teachers' room. That is what the people sitting here in the bleachers deserve and the people who strike out here and in the rest of the country. That deserves our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP. You're right, Mr. Kwint, because you had 14 minutes. We didn't get that right. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr President, every day Mr Kwint keeps to his speaking time is a positive day for me. Mr. Chairman. Then higher education. Last year, during the budget on higher education, we discussed a large part of the reserves here. The central question was: do the universities have too large reserves or not and should they be more interested in them? I would also like to talk today about interning on reserves, but not on those of the institutions, but on those of the scientific staff. Because what's actually happening in our universities for years now is that we're interning on human reserves and therefore doing a little predatory work on the people who do the job. Seven out of ten employees in scientific education experience the workload as too high. 71% say that the workload has been getting worse in recent years. This is not always the result of conscious policy, unwillingness or bad governance, but sometimes also simply a consequence of the system we have built together. This can be seen, for example, by the amount of work and stress involved in applying for research money. Mr. Chairman. Both I and Mr Paternotte asked questions about the failure to grant NWO funding to research on the Event Horizon Telescope a month ago. That was an interesting case for me, because it was an example of the sometimes difficult to understand choices of NWO and the difficult dependence position in which scientists find themselves in practice. The Minister replied: that is what the NWO is about; I do not make those choices. That answer is perfectly understandable. But the Minister reported remarkably: I'm going to allocate two tons for science communication to this project. That's caused a lot of fuss in the field. Is it so easy that money comes with something when you ask questions about it? So I would now like to ask the Minister: is there a direct link? If that is the case, I am not able to speak for Mr Paternotte, who is prepared to quietly submit a few hundred sets of parliamentary questions for other research projects that are being rejected. But, Mr President, workload is a serious problem, and not just because of the bureaucratic draw that often turns out to be science money. In practice, we also see full lecture halls, overworked teachers and a growing absenteeism. This problem now seems to be exacerbated by the redistribution of staff in response to the opinion of the Van Rijn Committee. The directors of classical universities have already stated that they are not going to make those discounts. Bravo, drivers. But universities such as Rotterdam, Tilburg and Maastricht have no choice. They just get a discount on their roofs. That will have consequences in the workplace. I have already said something about this in an interruption. It will have consequences for the number of people employed, for the group size, for the provision of electives and for the accessibility of teachers. There's a limit to what people can ask. It is not for nothing that WOinAction started a white strike, in which the staff no longer works overtime in their own time. If they did this consistently, our universities would be at a standstill. There is a structural shift of about 20% at our universities. Keeping you to paid hours means, in practice, that student questions are not answered, that papers are not checked and that research is postponed. And if you're in such a situation as a teacher, and there's an additional discount through Van Rijn, because humanities don't have enough economic value or because there are so many psychologists in this country, such things are being said, even in this Chamber, that you get not only in your workload but also in your professional pride. Can the Minister understand that? And will it, even if it does not want to intervene financially, at least stand for the rest of the science, which now feels very badly put in the corner because they happen to have a rather less good lobby? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister if she really sees any improvement in the fight for fewer flex contracts at universities. That is also a source of workload. I believe that science besides professional football and catering is the branch of sport with most flex contracts. It went from 42% flex contracts in 2015 to 39% in 2018. That's one percent a year. It is progress, I must say, but it is a very limited progress. And let me say here that universities are not only the victims of bad policy, but also the performers of it. Flex-spots are sharpness and impact. University of Eindhoven: over 50% flex contracts. Tilburg and Delft: got worse in recent years. Groningen and Twente: almost nothing changed. I'm just gonna call them here. I would specifically like to ask the Minister whether she considers this progress to be satisfactory. What would she want to do now? It has already announced earlier this year that it might come up with a standard. Isn't it time now? And does the Minister see, as I do, that there is a risk that there will be an opposite trend in colleges, as they are increasingly focusing on flex contracts? I think that's a very worrying move. How does the Minister feel about that? Finally, on the loan system. Something has already been said about this: another wind is blowing, it seems. That's good. Several groups are currently working on ideas for the loan system. You got Coalition-Y, I'm in. Under the leadership of the CDA, I believe we will soon be going to the ESC. I'd love to go with you. I would like to say this: as far as we are concerned, an improvement in the current situation, an end to the lending system, is not something for a forthcoming cabinet. So you can expect a bill from the SP for a basic grant before the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66. Things aren't going well between us today, are we? I don't know what's going on. Our relationship isn't going very well. I call Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would also like to begin by wishing Mr Beertema well. I hardly ever agree with him, but he is one of my favorite interlocutors in the Chamber. It really sucks what happens to him. Teachers, school directors, educational support staff, administrators, parents, students, all of you, I would like to welcome you to the education budget on behalf of the D66 Group. We, D66, those are the nineteen chairs you see in the middle. I'm standing here today as a teacher, because that's what I am: a math teacher. I am also standing here today to strengthen the friendship between D66 and education, because for us education is number one. It comes first. Why do we think that? Because everyone in society needs the opportunity to develop. People need to be led to independence, to discover talents and to pursue dreams. This is not only important for a happy, free and healthy existence, but it is also in the interests of us as a society as a whole, because knowledge is our only raw material. The most important factor for good education are, of course, teachers. You offer every student in your class to your best abilities. I know all about it. Teacherhood is a fantastic profession, it is important and it is sometimes heavy. We recently had the hashtag "you didn't learn that in teacher training." I was thinking about the time I was just a teacher 40 years ago on an MBO and a student's brother died in a car accident. You don't learn how to deal with that. You'll learn later, and then you'll need your colleagues very much. Those are moments when you can mean something. Or I'm thinking about that other student at that school who came very shy from the lts and who actually wanted to be a teacher. He did it, and I was able to give him a boost for that, too. Maybe he's on strike today. Well, then he's not quite good... No, you're not. You're right. It's beautiful when you see how people develop. Mr. Chairman. The teacher shortage is for all those reasons, because you can mean so much to people, much more than just being that teacher in your profession, mathematics in my case, a serious threat to the quality of education. So it is also a broad social problem. Now I hear you in the public gallery thinking: yes, it's nice that you say all that, but what do you do with it? As D66, we are most inclined to do so. We set education at one level, and it is also right that you should appeal to us. I still want to explain how that goes and what kind of environment we're in. At every negotiation there is, despite everything Mr.Kwint reads in the paper, we throw education on the table. We always want more for education. By the way, that's about a lot more than just money. When we were in opposition under the Rutte I and Rutte II Cabinets, we were able to offer our majority support in exchange for educational investment. In 2012, the entire savings on appropriate education were removed by the Spring Agreement and EUR 100 million was added. In the autumn agreement of 2015, 500 million additional structuralally went to primary and secondary education. Of course, we hear all the time: there was no money at that time. No, but if you want it, it's there. Just sit tight for a while, Mr. Kwint. I believe that Mr Kwint has already been very much interrupted. Don't you think, Mr. Chairman? No, I'd love to see him come. Without these agreements, no extra money would have gone to education in recent years. And teachers, when I talk to you about this, about all the extra money that's come up, I see a lot of shiny looks, because you haven't noticed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u47	Yes, and Mr. Kwint is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u48	Could you stop the clock for a second, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u49	Yeah, I'll be fine. That was also a little entrapment to Mr Kwint, so I have to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u50	Incitement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u51	That's the spirit, Mr. Chairman. I don't really have to post the interruption anymore. Mr Van Meenen says so himself. It is absolutely true that, thanks to D66's commitment to education, money has been added during this period. Let's just say that here too. But, as Mr Van Meenen himself says: if you want, you can do it. I have just said where the money is all bouncing against the plinths and mentioned a few examples of it. Then it's possible. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me that, despite D66's efforts, the shortage of teachers is getting worse every day and that the contributions of this cabinet have not yet led to an improvement, overall, for the teacher and the student?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u52	I'll get back to that later in my story. We talked about what happened during this period. What I am trying to explain is that with the nineteen seats we have, we have no majority in this Chamber. Everyone will understand that. We have a coalition with three very good, friendly parties on the right side of the spectrum. Eighty-two seats are over there. That's a majority already. Three of them made an agreement. All of them had virtually nothing to do with investment in education. We have made it 1.5 billion. Over 1.5 billion. That is not enough for me; we had nearly 4 billion in educational investment in our election programme. Then you can do two things: you can say "I'm not in, I'm keeping my hands clean, I'm standing aside and I'm not doing anything" and you can try to get the maximum out. That's what we did at the formation. That's what we've done now. I agree with you that it is not enough. I just said that I want the money that is here to be structural. We want a lot more than what's happening. But if the SP ever comes into the government again, she'll find it's less easy than saying "you're in the government," right? And "solve it."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u53	I don't think I said that at all. I don't think I asked for the whole overview of how three coalition parties are bothering you all day. I mean, that's a constellation you chose. You just made the remark "if you want money, then it's to be found." If you put that in addition to the observation that there is money in this period, but also see that the shortage of teachers continues to increase and that it is not enough, is that the end point for D66 for this period? That's what I asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u54	We always have to see that, but I'm looking forward now. A covenant has been concluded that will give money for two years to come. I fully understand the need to provide a structural perspective. We're definitely gonna talk about that. We shall also ask for a ruling from the Court on this matter. And so: yes, we continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u55	Okay. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u56	Maybe I can say one more thing about "if you want to..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u57	Then you just do it on that side of the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u58	What I mean is: it is constantly said that it could not in the previous period because there was no money. So it was possible. That turned out to be when we demanded it. But that was about the cabinet of the VVD and the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u59	The SP has never been the party that said you shouldn't invest in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u60	No, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u61	In fact, our whole left-wing story is built on the fact that in the middle of an economic crisis, you have to decide to invest. Of course that is possible, but that does not relieve D66 of the responsibility to continue to seek out the billions against the plinths even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u62	Okay. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u63	It is quite extraordinary that the SP D66 appeals to taking responsibility. We stand here every day in the wind to take that responsibility. Mr Kwint is mainly reading e-mails from teachers, and that is what it is. Yes! That's it! That's the contribution. You're a partner. How I would have liked to have been able to do all this with you or with others on this side of the spectrum. It would have been worth a sweet thing to me, but that's not how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u64	Let me return to the thread of today's debate. That's structural money for education. I know that Mr Van Meenen has that high on his wish list, as a teacher and as spokesman for a party that has education high on the list. I am surprised to hear a warm plea for money on the one hand, even if there is not. I will be the first to say that thanks to this cooperation beautiful things have happened in the previous period. On the one hand, I hear that and on the other hand I hear Mr Van Meenen clearly saying that he does not want to look at structural money for two years. The stands are full of people who can't wait two years. The shortage of teachers is so great that cannot wait two years for a solution. Why not now structural?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u65	I understand that question. The money is transferred "as we speak" to the schools. It'll be there for the next two years. What is important is the perspective that it continues afterwards. We can offer that perspective in the next two days. This gives it a structural character.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u66	With occasional money you can't structurally raise salaries, you can't bridge that pay gap and so you can't ultimately solve the teacher shortage. What are we going to do now to ensure that these structural solutions do not come in two or three years' time, but already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u67	In politics, nothing is ever structural in the end. The point is that you and each other, wide in the Chamber, make the statement that not only during this period, but also after that, you continue to give the money. In this period we give the money. My party has made sure that there is almost half a billion on the table. It's just transferred to the schools. It's gonna be structural if it goes on after that. That is what I am going to say today: next time my party will be in favour of the money being there again, as part of a much larger package with much more investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u68	Finally, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u69	I just heard Mr Van Meenen ask for the honest story. That's what I'm gonna tell you. The fair story is that 16.5 million of last week's package is structural and the rest isn't. The rest is occasional money. With occasional money, you can't boost salaries, you can't bridge the pay gap and therefore you can't solve the teacher shortage. That's why today's squares are enough. That's what's being stopped for. I do not hear a solution from Mr Van Meenen who is getting closer than those two years. We don't have that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u70	Then Mrs. Van den Hul doesn't listen very well. Because when is the money structural? If the perspective is there for it to go on. That's structural. Can I say something about it? It's also a little risky what's happening. I hope that Mrs van den Hul will also vote in favour. If the Chamber will decide that next time... We must, as it were, conclude an agreement with each other: people, we see that we must continue this. We're in front of it, and I hope you are, too. If we don't say that, we take the risk that school boards say, we put the money in the bank, we're not gonna spend it. That's the risk you'll take consciously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u71	I have the impression that Mr Rog wants to respond to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u72	That's the right impression, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u73	Again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u74	No, this is a first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr. Van Meenen is on the defensive. Apparently, he needs to turn his back on his own coalition partners. It might be good to state in public where we stood before and after the elections. Four parties wanted to invest in education. One lot more than the other three. I've always recognized that in equestrian terms. But it does not suit Mr Van Meenen to claim the agreement that we have concluded as four parties, namely EUR 750 million for these teachers, for additional salary and reduction of workload as the sole party. There are four parties that did not have that in the election programme. I say to the left-wing friends that all those left-wing friends didn't have it in their election program either. It was four parties that agreed to this. I'm proud of that. Mr Van Meenen should be proud of that. He may be proud of what he has agreed to in previous periods, but this was a point that was not included in the D66 electoral programme and on which four parties have agreed. I like to say that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u76	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u77	That's right. I would point out that this is the result of struggle. That battle is called formation, in which each party has a different top priority. The CDA stands for other priorities. There is no single education. There it may be safety or agriculture. I don't care what it is, but it's not education. It's about making myself clear, even for teachers who expect "you're in the cabinet, so you're taking care of it," that everything here is a battle. That is also the beauty of democracy. Fight between ideas: something comes out of it. Then I am proud that we have indeed been able to arrange this. I am also grateful to you in particular, Mr Rog, we sat at that negotiating table together and we did this. That's how things worked out for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Van Raan. Unless your point connects to the previous point, Mr. Heerema? Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raan. It was there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u79	I also agree with the previous point. I want to know if I have understood Mr Van Meenen correctly. If I understand correctly, Mr Van Meenen recognizes the crisis in education, apart from how that happened. He recognizes and acknowledges that there is now occasional money for this, that this is a good thing and that this has been a tough fight. But it is interesting that he has just said in the interrupting debate that he is going to see over the next two days how this occasional money could perhaps be converted into something that has a view on its structural development. Is this true?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u80	So you make a summary of Mr Van Meenen's story and you ask if that summary is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's right. May Mr Van Meenen speak for a moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u82	It is true that I want to give the perspective on structural, that this becomes a structural character. I dare to pronounce that as a party. I hope that all parties in this Chamber will do so. Then it can also be used structurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u83	Here too. Mr Van Meenen is talking about struggle. I'll give him that fight. I also give him the results of that struggle. But this really sounds more like panic football. You cannot blame colleagues in the Chamber for making risky remarks about finance that may go to schools and which may or may not be structural. You are taking an advance on the next period, which I do not think you can live up to. I think that is unfair towards the grassroots, which you also claim to represent. You're making a false promise, as far as I'm concerned. You shouldn't do that. You don't like that either. I would like to make this point here, because I do not think it is the Chamber that makes risky remarks, but Mr Van Meenen, who makes a risky comment about what will happen to the money later. We've been able to arrange something nice for the next two years. And then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u84	I'm sure we've been able to arrange something nice with each other. But it can always be nicer, I say. With the VVD it is clearly a risk that it becomes structural. I see it the other way around: for me it is a risk that it will not be. As a D66 Member, I can say that next time, as with the previous time, we will want to invest very widely in education and that this package of 460 million that we have now made will be part of the structural investment. If we all say that in the Chamber, it has become structural. That's what we're gonna ask today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u85	You've just been here, Mr. Kwint. I just want to see if we... Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u86	I have seen the motion that Mr Van Meenen wants to support. That's a "spoken" move. There may be a majority in favour of Mr Van Meenen as well. But then that money is not structural. Of course, negotiations must take place after the next elections. Mr. Van Meenen knows that, too. I'm upset that he's gonna make a promise to the people in the gallery that he can't live up to. 'Cause it can't be like you're gonna promise money that there isn't. We need to see how we can solve this together after negotiations, after election programmes. That's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u87	When Mr. Heerema gets angry, I always feel like I'm on the right track. Let me make this clear one more time. Of course, things after elections can be very different. Imagine if the VVD gets much bigger or another party wins; of course everything is new. But this is not the way to reason, because every promise, everything that you place in the budget structurally, is always subject to negotiation. Elections are always about change, but one thing will not change for D66 and that is the constant commitment to investing in education, structuralally. You can hold me to that now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr. Kwint, you've just been to this section. You may ask one question. The same applies to Mr Van Raan and Mrs Van den Hul. One quick question. I suggest that Mr Van Meenen just finish his speech afterwards. One question. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u89	Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me and the SP that, whatever motion he makes tomorrow, until today, when the budget is being dealt with, there is no school leader in the Netherlands who goes to the bank and says: a motion has been passed, so I now have money to hire new staff? I am in favour of more money going to education, now or the next period; fine. But we are not helping the school leaders and boards in any way if we are now going to try to settle with some sort of miraculous motion structure that is just part of the budget that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u90	I do not agree with Mr Kwint. In fact, we have received a letter from the boards, in which they ask us precisely this: to pronounce that. They are going to invest structuralally. You know that letter; you got it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u91	Maybe we should help the old master, with respect. He's just made his coalition friends a little boisterous. Perhaps we should give him the opportunity and opportunity to withdraw his words; then we will not talk about these structural investments in the next two days. Does Mr Van Meenen perhaps wish to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u92	Don't talk about structural resources? Why would I want to do that? I don't know why the Animal Party asks me to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mr Van Meenen speaks very loudly. We just heard that. I heard him say that we are taking a big risk with our point of view, but I think it is a big risk to say that with what lies ahead, you can bridge the gap in wages and do something structural about the problems in the classroom. I have heard Mr Van Meenen say several times that the gap in wages is at his heart. I know that's true. Now he says, "Hold on for a while; that pay gap will come later." That's a big risk to me. So I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen again how he is going to explain to all the people in the gallery and to all the people in the squares on the Dam Square 10,000 people who are standing there, how we are going to solve the problems that are going to be structural; not in two years' time, not in three years' time and not in another election programme, but now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u94	That pay gap is closing, one way or another. As far as I'm concerned today, that's not gonna happen. I can't do it, and neither can you. It just doesn't work. So we're gonna take steps. This is a step. Something can happen here, especially if we offer each other the perspective that it becomes structural. Then it can be deployed. That's my answer to you. My struggle goes on every day and I hope yours will go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u96	I was talking about the glassy eyes of teachers who do not notice enough of the investments. That's bad, very bad. That has been a reason for D66 to take a good look at this: who do we actually give the money to? That is why, two years ago, when we came to the cabinet ourselves, we opted for another way: the pressure equipment went directly to the schools. I come to schools a lot and for the first time I hear very positive reactions. In schools one can just point out: there is the extra class assistant, there is the concierge, there is the gym teacher who relieves our workload. Whatever way one chooses, it happens at that school, at that school that's right there on the corner of the street. 'Cause teacher teams are on their own. They have control. They have to agree to the plan. And that works fantastic. Finally, teachers notice some of the investments. That's why D66 wants to introduce this for all the education money. We're not taking it to the boards anymore, we're taking it to the school. I'm preparing a law that makes that possible. Teachers. After the previous election, there was no majority in the Lower House for higher education investments. I've had all this, Mr. Chairman. I am going to help you, because in the interruptions I have also been able to say what I need to say. However, we see that more is needed to deal with the problems in education. It is not enough to turn the tide because of the shortage of teachers, the rising workload, the pressure on educational quality. It is therefore unacceptable, I say, unacceptable, that parents are going to be in front of the classroom. The quality of education is the quality of the teacher. It's not a solution to the shortage of teachers to put parents there. Grandparents may be, so am I, but parents certainly aren't. This patch keeps the wound open for longer and it is a hollowing out of the profession and therefore works counter-productively. Putting parents in front of the classroom will increase the shortage of teachers, because it will lose the prestige. Also in the cabinet we continue to fight for more money for education, with last week as a result that there will be almost half a billion more for primary and secondary education in the next two years. With that money, we are taking another significant step. This money is much needed for you, you working hard that day in, day out to give the best education to the students, who fill up shortages on the team and are in class with piles of work until far after school. This persistent cry for help, heart cry, from education has played an important role in achieving this. I would also like to express my appreciation to the coalition, the opposition parties, but also to the coalition parties, of course, but also to the opposition parties who have been hard with us lately for additional educational investments. It shows once again that working together helps to take real steps forward. A lot has happened since last Friday. It has already been asked by Mr Heerema. I would like the Minister to tell us in detail exactly how this has happened, how these negotiations have been conducted, how these talks have been conducted. I know Liesbeth Verheggen very well and I can hardly believe that she has agreed to this package without consulting her constituents. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u97	Before you continue, Mrs Van den Hul, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u98	On the second point again, namely those powers and unauthorized for the classroom. That is a point where we are in complete agreement. We are, by the way, on a number of things, but certainly on this point. I also very much agree that, in the end, this is not a solution to the shortage of teachers. There was a letter from the big cities, a letter of fire, a cry for help, because we are not going to make it. We know that the shortage of teachers is even harder there and that it is not even the same at every school, but that vulnerable children are being hit even more hard there. We agree that releasing powers is not the solution. But what then, I ask Mr Van Meenen. What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u99	Roughly put, there are schools that really have a much bigger challenge. They are often in the big cities, at least at the moment. I can imagine that in the collective bargaining negotiations, which I hope will take place very soon, this will also be taken into account. As far as I'm concerned, this doesn't have to go anywhere. You can also make other choices in the collective agreement between employers and teachers. I hope that there is an eye for this problem. I see that as the nearest solution. In addition, we have of course also invested in disadvantaged students, etc. during this period. There, too, attention has been paid to the big cities. Yeah, those are the things we can do right now, in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u100	But these solutions at the collective bargaining table obviously require money. Because we have seen here a few times that money is needed for various problems on that collective agreement table: pay gap, vso, a number of things that I know D66 also has wish lists there. But to take that next step in that customization of course there is still additional money needed. We have therefore previously proposed an equal opportunity bonus in large cities in those most vulnerable schools. How does Mr Van Meenen view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u101	Any instrument that helps is fine with me, but I would say that is something that should be decided at the collective agreement table. I hope everyone takes their seats there, too. That, apart from the AOB, everyone is now willing to do so, could in principle mean that a collective agreement will be concluded quickly. The 285 million will then also be released in a structural manner, the wage compensation that is still in place. I would hope that the AOb will continue to take this opportunity to make that voice heard at the collective bargaining table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u102	Now I get a little worried in my belly again. This is exactly the whole problem at that table. This is exactly what we heard the Minister say. It's either something or nothing. That is precisely what I think is the problem: there must be extra money at the collective agreement table. Then there can really be structural solutions. As long as that is not the case, I think it is very logical that we see this image in the Netherlands and that the stands are full here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u103	We have seen the Minister say in the first instance: 285 million is available. That seemed like some kind of extra money, but it wasn't. We all, including myself, have said straight away: that is the regular increase in wages for the whole collective sector. That must also be put to good use here. That didn't get the collective agreement. It is precisely in order to make this collective agreement possible that we have fought to put that extra money on the table now. That's the 460 million that's coming right now. Especially if we can link the perspective of structural change to that, it could end up in the collective agreement and with teachers. I'll get on with it. So we have not yet reached our final goal. The shortage of teachers demands our continued attention. The pay gap between primary and secondary education must be close and investment in education must be structural. We therefore call on the boards, school leaders and unions to get the money into the classroom and to the teacher as soon as possible. Over the next two years, too, we must build together a broad support base for educational investment, so that the one-off money can be made structural in the next cabinet. We must offer that perspective today, so that it is no longer a political battle to give you a decent salary, so that you get the money and the space and the confidence to give each student the best and equal opportunities. D66 speaks out loud, I have already said that the structuralisation of this almost half billion euros will be part of an even larger package of structural investment in education. We hope today that as many parties as possible dare to make that promise out loud. Mr. Chairman. It's not just about money. D66 continues to fight for the best education for every child. We have great ambitions for education, as I said before, that the money goes directly to schools. We are looking at the current situation around appropriate education. If it's not something, I think it is. It's something that causes a lot of work, but also something that children lack. As D66, we voted against the introduction of appropriate education, both in the First and in the Second Chamber. I still see every day, and you as teachers, too, the consequences of us having done so. I say we get rid of that. In the end, we need to take the road to inclusive education. That sounds even more complicated. Every child the right education, but then a lot has to be done. Then teachers need to be strengthened. Then they need to be trained. Then they must be given space. Then the classes have to be smaller. In short, a perspective that you haven't taken care of for a while, but that you have to have as an ambition. And we do. We want to talk about the teacher's profession. The teacher in the Netherlands I've already said it in an interruption... gives far too many teaching hours and should have much more time for the development of his profession. That also increases the standing of the appeal. That's why I once became a teacher: because it was a beautiful, free profession, in which I could work on my own development and, of course, especially on that of children. It's not anymore. Teachers have become too many performers of government policy, but also certainly of governance. That's what I want to talk to you about with education. I want to talk about the preschool in the context of equal opportunities. I want us to make sure that children no longer arrive at primary school with a language disadvantage. That we make sure that there is a much stronger connection between childcare and primary school. There must be an extended school day so that the odds that arise after school time, when one child is kicking a leak every afternoon against a garage door, while the other child is driven from the hockeyles to the Concert building, there must be no inequality. I would like to give every child that culture, that sport, that nature, that support where it is needed, the homework guidance, you name it all, but we have to use it as a public service. Those are great vistas, but they do require something from our system. Customization in secondary education, that terrible moment at the end of the primary school at which the lives of young children are determined. We need to get rid of that. It has to be much later! Why selection, anyway? Just give kids room to grow. We must learn to have much more patience with children again. Well, these are great perspectives: everything that is needed in my view at least for the best education and the best opportunities for every child. I will discuss these ambitions in the next six months, because I will go on a school trip after our conference next Saturday. I always come to schools, but now I really go on a journey with these themes: the best opportunities, equality of opportunity and a much better position for the teacher. That's what I'm going to talk to anyone who wants to do it, and I hope to meet many of you there as well. Mr. Chairman. I now assume there will be an interruption. I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u104	I'd like to suggest you finish first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. Teachers. In the light of the new ambitions for education, we want to anticipate a matter in this budget. In more and more places in the Netherlands, schools and childcare work closely together, focusing on the development of the child and better in line with modern family life with working parents. One of the things that gets in the way is laws and regulations. There is a desire to start mixed toddler- kindergarten groups, so that pre-school education can be offered by a qualified teacher and teaching staff can take care of their duties. What room is there for that at the moment, I ask the Minister. This is now impossible due to stricter employee/child ratios. Is the Minister prepared to give more room for this, for example through an experimental article? Finally, on the MBO. In the MBO, quality agreements have been made with the investment of 1.6 billion and students experience little involvement in these agreements.GroenLinks also talked about this and are often not aware of what happens with that money on their courses. D66 wants to strengthen that involvement by facilitating participation councils in that task. That's possible from the investment itself. I would like a response from the Minister to that. When we talk about quality agreements, my good colleague Jan Paternotte, who will make the rest of this speech, will come on his own. Mr. Chairman. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mrs Westerveld, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mr Van Meenen has written a very nice plea for a number of views, as he calls it, in order to improve the equality of opportunity between pupils, but also in the field of appropriate education. I fully agree with him on a number of these points. I also know that at least my colleagues on the left, who are sitting here on my right, agree with that. We have also made a lot of proposals recently about equality of opportunity, about appropriate education, and they often did not get a majority, because I think there is little room in the coalition. I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen: will that change over the next two years, so that we can take the first steps to achieve that vision as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u108	A view is beautiful, but you must try to reach it as soon as possible. There are things in the story I've just told.The whole story is much bigger, look at D66.nl/school trip, I say to everyone also things that can be faster, much faster. Children, of course, have no patience to wait for that. So, yes, of course, the steps we can take, we're going to take them. And by the way, of course, we have also taken steps in the coalition. I am thinking, for example, of the severely limited children, for which we have really taken steps forward together in the coalition. Nor do I rule out the possibility that steps will be possible in the near future, especially in the evaluation of appropriate education next year, because I feel a great deal of room for that in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u109	Hopefully to hear that, because some of the points we have proposed are also included in the D66 electoral programme. So I very much hope that we will be able to take some more steps in the next two years, for example in the area of appropriate education, because we all know that this will create a very high workload for many teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u110	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u111	It's just the profession. Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u112	You too. You were mild.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u113	Always. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mr. Chairman. After seven years solo Paul van Meenen a second spokesperson of D66 on of course the most beautiful portfolio namely education. It's the subject that used to be at my home at the dinner table almost every night because my mother devoted her life to better education for all those children with learning and behavioral problems. Today I feel like I can give my maiden speech again, with which I don't want to say that I shouldn't be interrupted. Since the summer I have been on behalf of the group of D66 spokesperson for higher education and science. Today's budget debate is actually the first major debate we have held in these areas this six months, at least in the House of Representatives. Because in lecture halls, in auditoriums and in dormitories, it has been very often about higher education in recent times, and rightly so. My party attaches great importance to education and science. Teachers give inspiration for a life. Education gives you the opportunity to shape your own future. Science increases knowledge about ourselves and about the world around us. I didn't miss the fact that it squeaks and cracks a lot. As far as D66 is concerned, there is a lot of work to be done. We want students to have the personal attention they need. We want teachers to be able to take responsibility for continuing to renew their courses. And we don't want researchers to have to work overtime by default every day. I welcome a number of major steps that we have taken and are taking. Yesterday, for example, it was announced that the loan system would increase the additional amount for universities and colleges to EUR 574 million in 2024. The tuition fees have been cut in half for first-year students and quite rightly for students at the teacher's programmes and at the pabo's also for the second year. There is an investment of €200 million per year in basic research and €200 million in applied research and innovation. But the honest story is also that we and everyone who loves education have to make constant compromises to free up more money, that the number of students is increasing faster and faster and that against those big pluses that I have just mentioned are also lovers like the price adjustment. So, Mr President, you will not only hear me tell cheer stories today, but not just complains from me. The first issue that has been raised in these lecture halls is the loan system. Yesterday we read in the newspaper reports what universities and colleges are doing with those millions. Maastricht University reduces the number of students per working group to up to fifteen. Utrecht University creates more courses for lecturers at the university. I am glad that students and teachers are finally going to notice something of that quality impulse. The assignment is that this money is only used in consultation with the students and with the teachers. I would like to ask the Minister whether she has the impression that the commitment has indeed been determined together with those students and teachers. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, it also appears that there are groups of students who cannot move forward with the current supplementary grant. I am curious to see the Minister's evaluation and the talks at the ESC to see where the bottlenecks are and to see how we can resolve them together. For me, there is one condition: the funding must not come from the investment in education. The teachers I speak to want to be sure that they can now take on new colleagues with that extra money and that they can provide smaller working groups. Let us make it clear, even if there is a debate about the loan scheme, that we stand together for these agreements with colleges and universities. I hope colleagues will support that call. Mr. Chairman. A clear concern is the well-being of students. I have read the report of the SER Youth Platform on this. I am working with colleagues Bruins and Van Dijk to organise a round table before we debate this. Too many students feel like they only have one chance and fail otherwise. A binding study advice of 60 credits and the increasing number of courses with selection procedures are worrying. I am thinking of a freshman who is going to study first in the family: another environment, perhaps another language, compared to school a huge freedom and responsibility, no older brother, no sister, no parent who can help you or give you advice. A BSA of 60 credits can stop the development of such a student too early. You will hear me talk about this on a regular basis in the near future. And students, once they become starters, also have less chance of getting an affordable home, because if they want to buy, the student debt naturally plays a role. The question is whether that is the right role. I ask two questions about that. I hear from student organisations that the factor that weighs that student debt is based on the idea that the average interest rate is 4.2% and that the increase to the ten-year rate will take place. Can the Minister confirm whether the current weighting is indeed based on that? And the bill on ten-year interest has been revoked. Doesn't that mean there's reason to look at a new weighting factor? Mr. Chairman. The achievements of Dutch scientists are phenomenal. In all fields of science, from alpha, to gamma, to medical to beta, from scientific breakthroughs to bringing in European fairs, citations and even Nobel Prizes. The money we spend in research certainly does not end up in a black hole, I say with a wink at the science journalists. But the honest story is also that the workload is very high. I'm shocked by the numbers on the workload of researchers. The Rathenau Institute calculates that they work overtime on average for a quarter of their appointment. Moreover, the number of flex contracts is huge. If we want talent to flourish, we must also be able to offer an inspiring environment. Of course, personnel policy is primarily a responsibility of the directors, of universities and colleges of higher education. But I believe that we also have a responsibility at national level to check whether the national frameworks are in order. So I am very pleased with the shift of EUR 100 million from the second money stream to the basic funding, but I also notice the disappointment over the first round of the National Science Agenda. There were 325 pre-proposals, 89 of which were allowed to submit an extensive research proposal, 17 of which were finally accepted. One in 20, then. If we consider the amount of time it takes to set up a consortium and write a research proposal, I wonder: can't that be smarter? A suggestion is that the call for research in consortia should not be opened annually, but biannually. Then budgets can be added, comparable consortia have more time to look each other up and the fee rate is higher. When does the Minister expect VSNU, NWO and KNAW to come up with their advice on the application pressure? Do they have any idea how temporary contracts are developing? And is the Minister prepared to have the effect of my suggestion investigated? Mr President, I have been seeing Mrs van den Hul at the interrupting microphone for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u115	Me too. You have about one minute left. So she knows you're almost done. Then she gets the opportunity to... Well, Mrs van den Hul promises that the interruption will be very short. Do you believe that, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u116	I'll believe it when I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u117	Oh. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u118	I hope I won't disappoint you. A while ago, Mr Paternotte spoke of the 'happily withdrawn proposal on increasing loan interest'. It has already been mentioned here earlier today that the 226 million are still on the OCW budget. Can I count on Mr Paternotte to make a proposal to ensure that this is not at the expense of the workload, the quality of education and all the things I hear him talking about now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u119	I believe that's what the Minister calls "technically parked." Yeah, that money doesn't look very good in there. Let us be; it is an amount that rises to 260 million in 2060. Then I'm 76 years old myself. Before then, it's all a lot less. But as far as I'm concerned, it's never gonna happen. So Mrs Westerveld can count on my support for her call to speak here together that we will prevent that before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u120	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u121	I have a brief question about the Einstein Telescope. Mr. Rog said so. What are the German and Belgian colleagues' views on the idea of getting this together on the European Roadmap? And if you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to make one final point: free science. Because we have already had parties in this Chamber who wanted to investigate the political preferences of researchers. Mr Kops started today about "left indoctrination." I think he probably meant that teachers also teach their students that there is such a thing as climate change, and that that is a huge challenge for all of us. We also got a party after that, and the spokesperson is sitting right behind here in the hall, which opened a hotline on "indoctrination at the university." We have parties that attack institutions, such as RIVM and the KNMI, institutions that sometimes tell an uncomfortable truth in the public interest, about nitrogen, about the climate. They'll be attacked, not on content, but whether they're transparent, if they don't want to fool around. Mr. Chairman. Scientific research must be contested. That's the foundation of our entire model of science. Again and again, not the content, but questioning the motives and integrity of scientists who, on behalf of all of us, are doing research, is damaging something that we are not getting back soon, namely a country that is guided by honest facts, rather than by comfortable fiction. Mr. Chairman. To conclude, I would like to appeal to the spokesmen of science here in the Chamber: be the conscience of democracy in your group. Speak to your colleagues every time they are tempted to launch an attack on free science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u122	I would like to emphasise this. Now I happen to be not only spokesperson science, but also spokesperson nitrogen. I would point out that I did not hear the D66 spokesperson on RIVM, even when his coalition partners all dropped RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u124	I think you read a very clear statement on the D66 website that I did at least on behalf of my entire group. I am sure you can understand that my spokesperson for agriculture is not getting over everything, but I think he is doing so properly in the agriculture and nitrogen portfolio. But let's be clear where D66 is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u125	I don't regularly go to the D66 website; I have other preferences. I am having the debate with spokesmen here. I found the silence of the coalition side about RIVM in the debate on nitrogen very painful. I have also tabled motions on this subject. I also asked the Minister for Science to give his opinion. That motion was not supported by the coalition; that is possible. But if the science spokesperson here says he stands for science, then I would be worth a sweet thing if the other D66 spokesperson in other committees would follow that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u126	I would just like to make it clear that I maintain my criticism of RIVM and the KNMI. I am also looking at the rest of the scientific world with great critical eyes, because I am convinced that the Academy and other institutes are also looking very politically at which research is being carried out and what parameters of these researches are not being carried out. I myself experienced that very closely in the time I worked in universities. I am also proud to say that our party has a centre, a hotline, where a lot of indoctrination takes place in education is reported. There many students have found a safe haven: students who are sent out in schools, students who have to deal with insufficient tests if they give politically incorrect answers. I think it is extremely important for me to say, for the sake of clarity, that we fully support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u127	This "report your teacher" notification point calls Mr Baudet a "safe port." We all know that teachers who opt for the education that do not do for the money, but because they want to stand in front of the classroom, want to invest in the development of our children and to teach them something. Then there comes a hotline to report teachers who would commit left-wing indoctrination. Mr Baudet simply calls it saying that there is something like global warming, which is going to be a huge challenge and a very big problem for all the children who are now in the classes. Then I think, please delete that hotline. Show these teachers that you don't want to make them suspicious, but that you want to stand behind them. Because that's what we need from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u128	It's not a hotline teacher. It's not about teachers. We have also said this to agencies and media who asked for it. We're talking about the teaching material. So it's not about the people, it's about what's being taught. We are discussing textbooks, among other things, and we can see that there is a lot of bias there, as well as inaccuracies, immigration positions, climate change positions and EU positions that are very dubious. Students are not taught to think critically, but that is what it should be about. Certain pre-established truths are rehearsed endlessly, on penalty of. That is what we want to denounce. I believe that you also support the good teachers who should want to. I don't see any opposition to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u129	Good. Then I will go to Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u130	Can I have the floor? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yes, from Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u132	That's very nice. Mr Paternotte had a very nice story, I think, about fundamental free research. He called on all of us to be the conscience in our political groups. I had a question to the Minister in my contribution and I wonder if we can find each other there: can we, within the existing scientific budgets... I am thinking for example of the Dutch Science Agenda..................................................................................................................................... I wonder if we could hang out in that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u133	I think that shift from the second to the first money stream also contributes to more room for making these kinds of choices. We have to say to each other that applied research is not the only form of research. The biggest breakthroughs are due to scientists following their curiosity. You yourself gave a very nice example and wifi is another nice example. This has not been applied, but has been the result of fundamental research. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's answer to your question. I think we're on the same side here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u134	That's good to hear. I hope we can hang out in that together. It is true what Mr Paternotte says. In my opinion, almost all the Nobel Prizes in the past have been won with free and fundamental research and not with planning research from here. I really hope that we can take a few steps forward there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u135	I just want to get back to the loan system. Mr Paternotte has taken a step with his party by critically reconsidering whether it was such a clever plan, that loan system. I appreciate that, I like that. That's what we're gonna think about after the Economic and Social Council. My question to him is whether he can support the idea that SP, GroenLinks and CDA are bringing in today, namely to give generous support to the victims of the loan system through that €2,000 cash or...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u136	There's a little accident going on in the public gallery, but fortunately it's going well. Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u137	Last time I spoke, there was a phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u138	You've got something, Mr. Rog, but I'm fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u139	The question was whether this €2,000 can also be cashed or deducted from the debt at DUO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u140	I'm very curious to hear the answer. I see that the study vouchers would be paid out in a number of years, and I have heard enough surprised reaction in the vein of: okay, what exactly am I supposed to do with that right now? I would like a clear answer to the question whether you should pay that directly and whether you can do it at all, how feasible it is and how much money we leave on the bow. Of course it is a very nice idea, but your colleagues also have discussions about the Tax Administration. I believe that Mr Omtzigt regularly asks questions about this. We now know that there is no minister in this cabinet who has no challenge with executive services, and DUO is one of them. But I would like an answer to the question of what it means if we do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u141	I appreciate this positive basic attitude. Apart from the generous compensation, one of the arguments to reduce the implementation burden is, and as far as the CDA is concerned, certainly not to leave money on the bow. It's about compensating these corrupted... generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u142	I also have a question for Mr Paternotte about the amendment to take action in the short term for students under the loan system. How's D66 on the other side? I refer to the amendment tabled by Mrs Westerveld and my person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u143	It is by definition a sympathetic amendment. I notice that the SGP traditionally cites gambling tax as cover for a whole range of amendments. Suppose we have legalized pot growing in the Netherlands, then you will probably want to raise a pottak every time to do beautiful things with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u144	I had not yet come to the idea, but I very much appreciate the speed of Mr Paternotte. For the time being that is not the issue, so we focus on the gambling tax. That's how we indicated an orderly cover, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u145	That is true, but on the other hand, it is not the use to cover certain targets during budget discussions with tax increases, but we are going to look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's hour you in our education. Thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of teachers, have once again laid down their work today. A large part of them were here in The Hague and a part is still in the room. Also on behalf of the PvdA: welcome! Not only here, but throughout the country, from Leeuwarden to Eindhoven and from Arnhem to Rotterdam, teachers and school leaders and educational support staff, parents are watching a student in this budget debate. A debate that has only one good outcome in relation to the PvdA, namely structural extra money for our education, so that we can really tackle the shortage of teachers. So that we can finally really bridge the pay gap between teachers' salaries in po and vo and not have to stop teachers, but just do what they are good at. So that school leaders no longer have to be afraid of the flu wave, and so that parents no longer have to arrange care every time because classes are sent home and each child gets the attention it deserves. In short, so that our education is again the equal opportunity engine it should be. There are 310 vacancies in Amsterdam alone. One in four teachers with a burn-out at home, a shortage that if we do nothing goes up to thousands of FTEs. Mr. Chairman. That the hour is yours is not only shown by the figures, but above all by the poignant stories. Stories of schools that have to close doors because there are simply no teachers to be found, so that the quality of education cannot be guaranteed. Stories of schools where there's only one qualified teacher in the whole school. Stories of desperate school leaders who have no choice but to teach children not five but four days. Stories of parents like the ones in Zaandam, who have their hands in their hair because their child sits home one day a week and they have to take care of their work, or who are even deployed in front of the classroom. Because even that is the hardest reality in 2019. Colleges are allowed by the Minister to place unauthorized persons in the classroom. We have the best economy in Europe, but what a poverty! How would you feel if we were to say that our President cannot attend the debate tonight; we would ask someone in the public gallery to take over the hammer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u148	A lot of hands are now being raised in the public gallery. Look, they're very good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u149	Or how would you feel if, when a minister is prevented from attending Question Time, we just called our parents to replace her? We hear stories from teachers who have the water on their lips and who doubt whether they can keep up. They have chosen with passion and conviction for the most beautiful profession in the world, but they are getting in trouble more and more often. For example, they get in trouble because there is no replacement when they are sick and so they are standing with fever and already in front of the class to make sure that the children do not have to be sent home, as a teacher told me. They cannot get a mortgage with their salary, let alone with their temporary contract, and therefore opt for a better paid job elsewhere. There are teachers who love the p.o. I would like to make a few comments on this point. Because even though some of my fellow Members are still laughing at me like there is no such pay gap, the difference is there. May I introduce Tom and Leila? Tom teaches in the p.o., to the eighth grade and has nine years of work experience. He teaches 24 hours a week. He has a very small chance that he can continue to grow into a higher teacher function. Leila teaches in the first two years at VMBO and has nine years of work experience like Tom. She teaches less than 20 hours a week, but earns almost €350 per month more than Tom. Leila does have good opportunities to grow to a higher scale. Her final amount is more than €600 per month than Tom earns. What do you mean, no chasm? I'll say here again. No wonder some teachers like Tom prefer to choose the vo or throw the towel all the way into the ring. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the problems in our education are great. Very big. Too big. The EUR 460 million from last week's covenant is therefore urgently needed, but structuralally, because there is no occasional teaching. You can't invest in salaries and work pressure reductions on an occasional basis. We cannot occasionally bridge the pay gap and we do not solve the shortage of teachers with occasional money. Hence my question to the coalition colleagues, but also to the Minister: what is needed to find structural solutions? Our amendment is there. I sincerely hope that you will listen this time to the many thousands of teachers who are being heard again today, because their point is loud and clear: with occasional money we are not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u150	So far, so good, so... Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u151	Is Mrs Van den Hul aware of the fact that the PvdA left the present cabinet with a structural deficit of 467 million in the previous cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u152	This album is starting to get really gray, because we may have had this conversation 30 times already. I'd like to look back, although I think we're doing the teachers more fun with it today by looking ahead and talking about solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u153	No, but it wasn't another time, as Mrs Van den Hul always says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u154	It must have been a different time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u155	In 2018, there was a high level of economic activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u156	No, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u157	I'd like to take Mr Bruins with me. There were estimation adjustments due to higher teacher numbers. There was a motion by Mr Pechtold, which was also supported by my party, which asked this Chamber not to allow these estimates to fall down on the primary process, as it is called so beautifully. There was a formation. And if you really want the whole honest story: there was an explicit request and we have said: we are going to ensure that that budget is properly transferred. No, at the request of the current coalition, the budget is as it is. That's the honest story. Again, I think we need to look forward to solutions for now, so that we fill the gaps that are there now instead of looking back at who did what when.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u158	Did you bring people, Mrs. Van den Hul?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u159	No. Oh, come on. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u160	It is not supposed to show your approval or disapproval in all kinds of ways. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u161	Crazy we sometimes call it "the hole of Jet" in the corridors, but that's not so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u162	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u163	No. And Mr. Bruins, you're from the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u164	Yeah, that's why. That's why I'm saying it's not so neat. But I mean the financial hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u165	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u166	A structural deficit of 467 million on the OCW budget, that's what this cabinet found when it started negotiations. That's not covered. If that was in the good time at the time, in 2018; high-conjuncture Rütte/Asscher had been covered by the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, it would have been 460 million structural. It wouldn't have had to be new money. We could have covered the whole wage agreement with that alone. I think it is really wrong to call now: this cabinet does nothing; it must all be structural, but there is only occasional money. When this cabinet came into office, 1.9 billion additional structuralally went to education. But that feels like 1.4 billion, because that half billion just had to be covered first. That was a structural deficit of the previous cabinet. You scared the hell out of us when we saw it. That is why structural investment cannot now be made. I think the PvdA should simply take co-responsibility for that. You're just admitting that, even though you're suddenly in the opposition. But you can't suddenly go on responsibility leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u167	Once again, this is far from me. First of all, what Mr Bruins is putting down here is not the honest story. There was a Pechtold motion, supported by us. There was an offer during the formation negotiations after the previous elections, whereby our former finance minister, Minister Dijsselbloem, offered to remove that discount. This would be covered by the general budget. The new coalition has chosen to leave that deficit. And then to stand here blaming me, I am really far, far away from me. I have never said that I want to correct that for a moment, however, that this cabinet is not doing anything for education. Mr Bruins did not hear me say that. I said it's not enough. I said: with occasional money, we do not solve the structural problems. That's what I said. I'd love to hang out with that. We have put forward a number of very concrete proposals that will enable us to solve these problems. I very much look forward to discussing this with the Christian Union. I look forward to your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u168	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr. Chairman. What is hopeful is that the cabinet finally recognises with the EUR 16.5 million for salaries in secondary special education that the difference in appreciation between continued special and regular education is unfair. We are talking here about teachers who represent our most vulnerable children. We would like to go one step further by also aligning working conditions. We also put forward a proposal for this, which, of course, was once again covered. That's not random. In a rich country like the Netherlands, we perform it to have children who need extra attention in the classroom, for example because of a disability or chronic illness, faded on waiting lists. There are now even vso-schools where four-day school weeks have been introduced due to the shortage of teachers. These are schools where children benefit from structure and predictability. Mr. Chairman. I told you, this is an important first step. But in the end, as far as we are concerned, all the teachers in the vso hear in the collective agreement of the vo, and not only teachers who work in a diploma-oriented way, so that every student in the vso with what kind of flow profile is sure of the best teacher for the class. Because that may affect me most when we talk about the shortage of teachers: the most vulnerable children are at risk of becoming the child of the account. Some classes are so large that they barely fit into their classrooms anymore. But if you have enough money, you can buy a place in a very small class, where a teacher is always guaranteed to be in front of the classroom. Schools even advertise with that. The Education Inspectorate warned already in the State of Education that the lack of teachers threatens equality of opportunity. But although we know these warnings, we still do not understand which children are affected. We therefore look forward to the implementation of the motion-Kwint c.s. on the mapping of that deficit. The predictions do not promise much good. The most vulnerable children and schools are by far the hardest hit by the shortage of teachers. This calls for unorthodox measures. Sometimes you have to make unequal choices to promote equality. I have just mentioned that we have advocated here earlier for the equal opportunities bonus for teachers, so that the most vulnerable children get the best teachers. The minister didn't want that at the time. But what can he do to ensure that inequality of opportunity does not increase because of the lack of teachers? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there is also good news in the area of equal opportunities, namely in the MBO. The Minister is working on the proposal from us and colleague Van Meenen for equal internship fees for students in MBO and HBO. Thank you for that. Also the first Mbo-rich-traines are now working. That too is important, because students also deserve equal opportunities in the MBO. That brings me to higher education, because now the alarm bells are ringing. See the emergency cry of students, colleges and universities today in Trouw. I heard the same cry for help at the True Opening of the academic year in Leiden. Professors and students warned against the proposed transfer of medical studies and alpha and gamma studies to science and technology, not because they do not see that science and technology need extra investment, because I think we all do, but because that should not be at the expense of medical studies and alpha and gamma studies. Thousands of people have signed our petition that we have organised together with the LSVb, WoinAction, VAWO, FNV, CNV, FBZ and the JS. The report "Wissels over" clearly points to the fog in which we steer when it comes to financing our higher education. We also saw this fog during the debate we had earlier with the Minister. Because the effects of this transfer are far from clear. The entire opposition therefore supported our motion to postpone the transfer until we have clear consequences for those alpha and gamma studies and medical studies. In order to prevent us from making irreversible choices, I would like to try to come out of something together today. What if we postpone the whole transfer until that study on the adequacy of the funding has been completed, but we do use the so-called soft landing of EUR 37 million for beta and technology? In doing so, we take both the concerns and the wishes seriously and stop the distribution and control policy, which is now becoming increasingly apparent in that fog. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I come to the students' victory earlier this year. The unfortunate and unnecessary increase in interest rates on student loans is fortunately off the table. But what turned out? The revenue that the cabinet misses in this way is recovered from the funding of higher education. Technically booked, as it's called in nice jargon. Why, I ask the Minister again today. An earlier proposal by my colleague Nijboer and the SP to remove this disguised cut did not receive sufficient support in the Chamber. Then there is little more to me than asking the Minister how she is going to ensure that this reduction is not at the expense of higher education, the people who work there and the quality. I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. No matter how we organise our education, for the PvdA it's always a priority that education contributes to equal opportunities, that you can be sure that you are not only part of it, but can actually participate in it for a lifetime, whoever you are. Normally, I would now have broken a lance for emancipation, but fortunately, we are going to talk about this in detail during a separate debate. Once again, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for this proposal. So today I am restricting myself to the role of education in equal opportunities. Fortunately, there is also plenty to say about this. Because even though education is human work, in the system too often we rely on a "one-size-fits-all" approach. For the start you make in primary school, it matters which language your parents speak at home and whether you go to preschool. It doesn't matter how thick your parents' wallet is or you can be re-edited in boxes that you find difficult or get help with your homework. And it matters if your last name is Van den Hul or if you have to write 5 or 50 application letters for an internship. Sometimes it even matters where you live or how much income you have or at a later age you can still compete with low-literacy. We are therefore looking forward to the opinion of the Economic and Social Council which we have requested. This should provide insight into how opportunities and, above all, missed opportunities accumulate and thereby increase the inequality of opportunities. Could the minister give us a timetable for that investigation? Mr. Chairman. We see shadow education growing, and so do our concerns about a fair chance for every child. Can't your parents afford expensive homework counseling? Too bad the bammer. Then they'll have to help with your homework. And you can't? Bad luck. That is why we want everyone who needs it to have additional guidance. We read in response to the recent study on shadow education that the Minister also considers it important that unpaid forms of supplementary education are offered, especially for children who may have fewer resources from home. As a possible solution, the Minister mentions, among other things, the provision of more opportunities for schools to offer supplementary education. Would he be willing to make it clear how many children do not receive homework guidance for financial reasons but would actually need it? And is he willing to discuss a national coverage offer with municipalities and schools on this basis? Resuming and concluding, Chairman. This debate feels a bit surreal. Because while education is on fire, teachers are laying down their work massively and people in scientific education have adapted their out-of-office message to their workload, we are facing a cabinet that, despite billions and billions of surpluses, still maintains that, I quote, we have to choose in scarcity. "Choose in scarcity," our Prime Minister really said, and meanwhile a billionaire in the Quote 500 says he's never had to pay so little tax in his entire career. Indeed, Mr President, it is a matter of choosing and we choose our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr. Chairman. This morning, before this debate, I spoke with some of my colleagues here with the youth organisations of Coalition-Y. We've been hanging out with them a lot lately and they've put themselves well on the agenda. Just before Princess Day, Coalition-Y presented a manifesto with ten proposals to improve the position of young people in our society, because even though young people have many opportunities at this time, the pressure is high. I would therefore like to look through young people's glasses in this debate on the education budget. In the social state of the Netherlands, the annual report of the SCP, it is described that a substantial proportion of pupils, even in primary and secondary education, experience high pressure and that this percentage has increased considerably in recent years. The Kinderombudsman has also drawn attention to this. So we live in a society in which we seem to have been putting a lot of pressure on children from primary school to perform, and for students this pressure is already quite high. We see numerous reports on stress and burn-out. We see that many signals for young people are on orange or even on red. I call it the loan system, the tight housing market, the precarious labour market; it all adds up and in the meantime there is this pressure from society to get the maximum out of yourself. It's like life always has to be five stars. All in all, a recipe for unhealthy pressure. I'm worried about that. It also, I think, has to do with our vision of education. It is very often about the economic function of education. You are prepared to be useful in society; performance is central. While education is so much more than that. The masters and teachers here in the hall know that. It's about your development as a person, about education, about finding out who you are, how you think about things, what place you can take in society. That requires space and attention rather than constant pressure to perform. This experienced pressure, especially for students, is also increased by the loan system, according to the Christian Union. A little running out costs a lot of money and it is good to see that more and more parties are subtracting their hands from this loan system and recognising that this is not good for our young people, so much pressure. Coalition-Y has successfully put this on the map. The Christian Union was and is against this loan system and we are also determined to tackle the loan system in the run-up to the next cabinet formation. I have recently sent an invitation to colleagues here who also want to adapt the loan system so that we can think ahead about the contours of a new system. It's nice that D66 also wants to talk about that. We also saw in the newspaper a small step from GroenLinks and the SGP in the right direction. I suggest we get around the table soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u172	Two things. One: we support the return of the basic grant and a bridging scheme for students who have had to build a loan to help those who cut it down or compensate for it. So that's where we can find each other. If this cabinet falls quickly and there will be new elections, we can look for a new coalition and a new government. The second thing I want to say is a question. This pressure on young people and burn-outs of young people and start-ups on the labour market is very interesting. Of course, that has a lot more to do with than just education. The workload at universities isn't really very high. What's the matter with our civilization that everyone's so tense all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u173	What's wrong with our civilization? Mr. Chairman. I've got seven minutes 24, but the clock's stopped. So I have an infinite amount of time in theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u174	No, don't. But a short response, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u175	What's wrong with our civilization? I would also like to talk to Mr Baudet about this for a very long time. Of course, this can't be handled in one minute. I did... I did...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u176	It's fun and important because this is of course free from money and policy things, which is what we're talking about now, and ultimately is the crux. The left-wing parties, the liberal parties, ultimately do not understand what a man is and what makes a man happy. And that's why they promote a society of atomisation, of consumption, of state dependence, and you name it all, in which there is alienation and in which, in the end, stress accumulates. I was hoping you could say one or two things about that. Quite apart from the fact that we may agree on so many million or so in the near future: in the end we must denounce a philosophical, cultural problem here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u177	But Mr Bruins was just about to say something. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u178	Then I'm really gonna say one or two things about it. Deep down in my heart, I'm an anti-revolutionary. This means that I see the French revolution as a turning point in time. That is where the concept of "individual" arose; that is where the concept of "people" arose. That's where atomism came into being, the idea that people are all some kind of identical little dolls. My human vision as it comes from Christian politics is that man is a relational being. The God I believe in is a relational God within himself, a trinity. We are characterized by relationships, not by who we are as individuals, but by who we meet and by how we deal with the other and look the other in the eye. My vision of society is based on that human vision. That means I want a small government and I want a society where we look each other in the eye again and where there's attention and time for each other. That's what I stand for as a politician and as a human being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u179	It is touching to listen to it, but we will continue with the budget of Education. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u180	I thank Mr Baudet for his enthusiastic response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u181	I think it's one thing and another. I just want to talk about money again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u182	And that of the SGP!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u183	That's very rude. That transition is too big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u184	I'll do my best to get you a good night's closure later. The loan system, the amendment. I've also asked your coalition colleagues about it. You call it very positive 'a small step in the right direction'. Is the conclusion then justified that we can rely on the support of the Christian Union, no, "trust" is the wrong word here, even in my vision of life hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u185	I called it a small step in the right direction. I think it's a very small step too. I would rather take a very big step if we were, God willing, and the Chamber, to be involved in another government agreement. I'm rather concerned that, if we go along with this, we're going to be sitting at the coalition table and then some party who thinks the loan system is top-notch says, "Yes, Mr Bruins, you might want to turn the loan system back, but you've already had your way with the Western Field/Bisshop amendment, so now you've got to shut up. I would rather keep my gunpowder dry for a really big step and the return of the basic grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u186	Every great journey starts with the first pass, and this is the first step, I'll say. The big step that Mr Bruins is talking about means, in fact, that you leave students in the cold for three years. That is the consequence of going only for that big step, for which there could be room for negotiation after the next elections. I do not think that this is desirable in relation to what we can do now, at the moment, in concrete terms, in the hands of the team.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u187	We also talked within the coalition about the intermediate years and the students who have been studying since 2015, and that's what I'm worried about: how do you actually deal with the students who just fall between shore and ship, between the old system and the new system? That's what we need to talk about by then. There is another reason why I cannot support the amendment. Then I would like to address Mr Bishop as the financial spokesman for the Christian Union. Mr Bishop is well aware that income and expenditure in the budgetary system are separate from the Empire. This amendment increases the revenue framework and the expenditure framework, while the government agreement establishes both. They can't be mixed during the four years you rule. That's how the Empire manages its finances. That might be a bit acidic in good times, but in bad times it's a very healthy way of burying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u188	Very briefly and finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u189	This is an extremely formalistic response, which affects thousands of students. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u190	Like Mr Bishop, I want to talk about money. I hear Mr Bruins saying that we are taking a big step, but we are not going to do that for two years. Does this also apply to investments for the shortage of teachers? Does this also apply to the investments that are now needed to empty the need of the striking teachers, school leaders and educational supporters, as we have already heard VVD, CDA and D66 say for this? We're not gonna do that for another two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u191	I don't think I fully understand where Mrs Van den Hul is going with this. We've just had an interesting interrupt debate. This period of government adds 1.9 billion more structuralally for education, 700 million more structuralally for primary education. This is something the teachers have noticed and they will have to notice even more in the coming years. There's also the 460 million now. I wonder what exactly Mrs Van den Hul is pointing at right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u192	I can make that very clear. I would also advise you to talk to the strikers at the end, because they can explain it even better. They strike today because the money that is now available is not enough to invest in, for example, bridging the pay gap. They stop because the money we have is not enough to ensure that the vso is fully incorporated into the collective agreement. To make sure that there really is something on that collective agreement table, this is not a structural solution. You don't come there with occasional money. We switched that earlier today. Also to Mr Bruins the question: what is needed to discuss this structural solution with the Christian Union? And again, not in two years, but now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u193	Now it's clear to me. The Christian Union has always said that they have that pay gap between p.o. and thinks it's too big. I even remember once on the radio saying that that L.A. scale should actually be some kind of starter scale. Once you're an educated teacher at elementary school, you're supposed to be in the LB scale. It's supposed to run faster, too. That's what all the collective bargaining partners are supposed to do. If Jan van de Ven looks now: yes, I still find this, Jan. I haven't changed my mind. He always reminds me of it on Twitter. We also believe that further steps should be taken after this cabinet period to further reduce the gap. If you want to do that, structural money is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u194	But why not now, I ask Mr Bruins again. Why not now? There's money. There's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u195	No, no. Once again as financial spokesman: there is one-off money. It does not cover structural expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u196	No, but our point is right...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u197	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u198	Although it's already changed, I wanted to ask the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u199	Then you'll get the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u200	No, because I'd like to rephrase him. Mr Van Meenen of D66 makes a very clear choice. He says he already wants to talk about it in order to be able to offer insight or hope over the next two days to convert the occasional money into structural money. Is Mr Bruins prepared to talk about this already? That's a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u201	If Mr Van Raan comes forward with a motion, I will take a serious look at that text. As I have already said, the Christian Union wishes to continue to reduce the gap between p.o. and vo. We want to take new steps in that. Not only in this cabinet period, where a lot of money has been added...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u202	That's the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u203	Next time we are allowed to talk, we are going to fight to make structural extra money available for it again in the next cabinet period. Then the gap gets smaller again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u204	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u205	Thank you. We're talking about steps. One such step is that the Minister offers a €2,000 study voucher to students who are confronted with the loan system but have not benefited from the quality impulse. Mr Rog mentioned it and I would also like to ask the Minister. Does she want to make it possible for students to simply use that voucher to reduce their student debt? That is what I hear from the students, namely that there should be this possibility of spending. Mr. Chairman. Together with Coalition-Y, I also strongly advocate better mapping of the financial situation of students. Until 2014, the student was included in the purchasing power calculations of the Nibud. Since 2015, that has stopped suddenly. Even though the situation of students is changing and the Minister says that this is complicated, if it could be done until 2014, it can be done now. My group believes it is important that the Nibud Student Research is also carried out in a structural manner. That happened every two years, until 2017, but this also stopped. Will the Minister start both points again? I'm considering a motion on this point. I mentioned for a moment that young people are also having a hard time in the housing market. There we see the problem of their total student debt being charged when determining the maximum mortgage. I ask the Minister to be sure that this is true. In 2015, Carola Schouten and Wouter Koolmees have already tabled a motion on this issue, namely to look at the current study debt in the calculation of the amount of the mortgage. But I hear that a former student is still getting the same amount deducted from his maximum mortgage, whether he's just started paying off or maybe he's been paying off for 20 years. The Christian Union wants the weighting to be reduced the longer you are redeeming, but it is not clear to me whether it is now or that it is yet to be done. In any case, I am prepared to table a motion on this issue with other parties. Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about stress and burnout issues. It is essential that there is good psychological assistance at educational institutions. I have previously received a motion which now gives RIVM a large-scale qualitative zero measurement of the mental health of students. But in the meantime, very little happens. How can the Minister promote the availability of accessible psychological assistance, but above all that students know about it when it is available? It still appears that students are not well aware that in the event of involuntary study delay they can claim the Profiling Fund. The individual study allowance for students with a medical disability also does not work properly. What steps can the Minister take in the meantime on these points? Then I'm going to primary school. We've just talked about it a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u206	Mr Bruins rightly called for attention to be paid to psychological aid for students who need this help, inter alia because of the pressure they have to deal with. You have probably also read in the Minister's letter that a very large part of the money from quality agreements by universities and colleges is being used for more student psychologists and more guidance. I hope this can help. You started the loan system. If we were to adapt something to the loan system, would you be prepared to say that all this should not be at the expense of the amount that went to education? Then we will also give clarity and certainty to all these institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u207	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u208	Thank you. Please continue. Oh, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u209	Mr President, with apologies for the late hour of getting up. Then I ask Mr Bruins whether he does not find it ironic that we have introduced a loan system that causes a lot of stress on students and that we use the profits that this brings, then to hire more student psychologists to do something about the stress of students. Doesn't he see a certain irony in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u210	Mr Futselaar must have had the trade logic somewhere in his first years. Rhetorically very handsome, but the loan system is certainly not the only reason for stress. As I said in the small interrupting debate with Mr Baudet, there is a much deeper, underlying reason behind it. You can also differ on that, depending on your human vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u211	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u212	Primary education. We have already talked about structural investment and occasional investment. It is good that a structural investment of 1.9 billion has been made available for education, including 700 million for primary schools. I have already said that the gap is not completely bridged. We do want to take steps there too. That's what happens in this reign. We would also like to do that in the next period, should we come to the table. But let us continue to stress that what this cabinet delivers is also serious money. I also hear from the masters and teachers at school and from the directors that the pressure is actually relieved, also thanks to the working pressure equipment of 430 million structuralally. In this context, I can say that I have an amendment in preparation. The Regional Approach Scheme is an important instrument for resolving the shortage of teachers, as the nature and extent of the teacher shortage varies enormously from one region to another. That is why I think it is important to make extra money available for this. We'll see what the support in the Chamber is like for that. Mr. Chairman. You know I've been pleading for more men in class for a long time too. That's good for diversity, good for school teams, good for the profession, good for boys and girls, good for men and women. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister when the bill for education as a kindergarten teacher is now officially not called that; I know it is coming to the pabo, as agreed in the government agreement. Kindergarten teacher or kindergarten teacher is a profession and I look forward to that being recognized again. Without suggesting gender bias in any way: the pabo becomes more attractive for men and women if more differentiation and specialisation are possible in training so that those who want to work with preschoolers can have access to it, and those who want to transfer knowledge in the superstructure can also focus directly on it. Then practical education, a unique and beautiful type of school. My group believes it is important that practical education institutions should retain the possibility of shaping the MBO entrance themselves within the school, under the responsibility of the MBO institution. Can I hear the Ministers say that they will pursue this, where cooperation between practical education and MBO has not yet been established? It is important to look at the influx of students into the entrance course anyway. The admission to the rocks is now often free of barriers. You may wonder if a young person is sometimes not better off in practical education, rather than rushing through to the roc because it would have a higher status. Can the Minister also say a few words about this? Mr. Chairman. I'm about to close up, but I still want to talk about craftsmanship. Last week I was at SOMA College in Harderwijk, a beautiful vocational school, where ground, road and water construction is given to young people who are trained as a crane operator, surveyor or concrete carpenter. I have presented my new Action Plan on craftsmanship there. It identifies the craftsmanship measures taken in this coalition agreement and what measures are still needed. I have two copies here for both ministers. I also have copies for the colleagues. I'd like to hand it over to the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u213	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u214	I would like to comment on one proposal from the action plan. That has been briefly mentioned by Mrs Kuik. At the moment you can only study after an MBO degree by going to HBO. Therefore, studying often means that you are more general and theoretically formed, while specialisation in and deepening craftsmanship is certainly so useful and important. That is why I propose in my action plan the deepening of craftsmanship through the master companionship route. After a test of competence and sufficient relevant work experience, you get the master's degree. So it's basically a major education on the MBO. You could roughly call it some kind of associate degree, but don't let me fall into that swamp. As far as I am concerned, we have to start with master courses at vocational schools, especially at the twelve vocational schools we have in the Netherlands, as they focus on specialist craftsmanship. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this plan. Together with the CDA, I am therefore preparing a motion for a resolution on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u215	I'd like you to finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u216	Then I'll use the last 21 seconds for a heart cry over the HBO. The OCW budget shows that HBO is shrinking by around 5,000 students per year according to current estimates. This is a major challenge, particularly in the sparsely populated regions of the Netherlands. That could be a serious problem. If we take craftsmanship seriously, how are we going to position HBO as the highest possible vocational training in all regions of the Netherlands in the future? I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u217	I will allow one question per Member of Parliament and then I will go to the next speaker. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u218	Beautiful and rightful words about craftsmanship. Thank you for that. I would like to ask one question about what but just mention the problem of practical education and training and so on. I wonder if Mr Bruins is going to make any concrete proposals for this, because I would like to join in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u219	Oh, that's a good chance! I see two things about practical education, mbo and that connection. The first, which I mentioned, is that entrance training in practical education can be provided under the responsibility of the MBO. The figures show that pupils in practical education who have this chance have a higher chance of success in further education and in the labour market. Do the Ministers recognise these figures and can we ensure that they remain possible? The other point is that there is now sometimes a threshold in MBOs for admission to the MBO for practical education students. Perhaps that is not so bad at all, because many practical pupils have a safe basis on that practical education. That threshold is about to be removed. I wonder if that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u220	I'm gonna talk through it. Mr Wiersma, one question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u221	I make a bridge between the last two themes: craftsmanship, mbo and the question about HBO. Actually, they can learn something from each other. Because one could say: if you also have more practical routes in HBO and perhaps even in wo, as well as distance learning, then practice, including in higher education, will be helped to increase this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u222	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u223	And you may also have an answer to shrinkage in education, which allows you to fill different learning needs with different forms as well. In my contribution, I had the proposal that the practical route and distance learning should actually be included in the flexibilisation agenda for higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u224	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u225	I would like to ask whether Mr Bruis thinks that is a good idea and whether he has anything to add to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u226	A brief response, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u227	My view is that university and HBO are different institutions. For the last ten years, we have actually seen that HBOs want to look more and more like universities. I think that's an unjustified attempt. For me, HBO is the highest possible vocational training in our country, and so we must appreciate it. I would therefore like to see that we give vocational training to that highest possible professional institution, namely HBO, and that we train academically, theoretically, widely, to the academic institutions. In fact, I would like to go so far as to think about exactly which degrees are included and so on. Then I would like to see whether practical vocational training, which we now want to give to the university, does not belong to the HBO, in order to emphasise so much more clearly the individual character of both institutions. That's my vision. I do not have any concrete proposals for this, because you are going through a lot, so I am not going to do that during a week's budget debate, but that is my view of these two types of institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u228	I would like to talk about the transfer to science and technology in higher education, which the Minister also recognises is going to hurt somewhere, in length or in width. Now I know Mr Bruins not only as a beta, but also as someone with heart for the alpha, gamma and medical sciences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u229	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u230	How does he look at our proposal, because the consequences for these alpha, medical and gamma sciences are not yet clear, to wait until that efficiency study has been completed and to invest soft landing devices where this need is so high, in beta and technology? How's he looking at that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u231	Mr Bruins, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u232	This is about numbers, so as a beta, I get all excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u233	That's what I was afraid of!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u234	And as a financial spokesman, too. Let me say that I am very pleased with the soft landing means, because redistribution is always exciting. We do it in times of increasing resources, because otherwise we would have a problem with it anyway. But I can also say that, and I have been calculating it all myself with all those phone calls, that 200 million is not being transferred from humanities to science and technology. That is not the case. That is what happens in the media every time, but it doesn't happen. If that happened, the humanities in the Netherlands would be completely wiped out. The Christian Union would never agree to that in its life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u235	Mrs Westerveld, one question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u236	I'll think about that very carefully. There is, however, a transfer. There's been some unrest in education. The VSNU indicates that teachers will be fired. It's starting next year. Will Mr Bruins think with us about ways of ensuring that there is no need for teachers to be fired next year? That we're gonna find a way to make sure, even for higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u237	I find it difficult to imagine the dismissal of teachers. Firstly, there is no transfer. The financing model is being adapted. This happens every eight to fifteen years in higher education and it has consequences for the distribution of money between universities. There is no transfer between domains. The government's not about that either. The measures that are being taken are still years away. So the fact that teachers will be fired next year seems to me to be lobbying talk; I do not believe in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u238	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Our group also expresses the hope that Mr Beertema will soon be with us again. Let's say you can choose between a burnout and the mediocrity. What do you choose? According to Michelle van Dijk of VO in action. We must choose here that these absurd choices do not have to be made at all. Of course there is a teacher strike today, because as this government spends its time and money handing out irresponsible gifts to anyone with a tractor, it closes its eyes to the public sector. Does it not concern the Minister of Science that during the farmers protests paid by the bio-industry, a series of deceptions and physical intimidations turned out to be enough to wipe out the already lean measures? How does the Minister put that in the light of teachers who have kept to the rules in all their actions and protests, but still do not get what they are entitled to? Under the motto "proud of the farmer," the scientific basis of agricultural policy disappeared as snow for the sun. But is the cabinet also proud of the teachers? That is not clear from the budget. Once again, it is totally inadequate, both for the climate and for education. Does the Minister recognize that you don't fill structural gaps with occasional money? What is the Minister going to offer the people in education structuralally, so that smaller classes, less workload, more salary and more hands in the classroom can be realized? All expressions of appreciation, which also lead to a reduction in the vulnerability of education. Does the Minister recognise that, in order to answer the major questions of the future that we as a society face, the answer must not come only from technology and more technology and that we must not ignore the great value of alpha and gamma sciences? The vulnerability of education is often abused by fossil companies, whose profit model goes directly against the interests of our children. Over the past year, young people have also taken the lead in the climate debate. That makes it all the more inappropriate for fossil companies such as Shell to continue to inflammate education with commercials packaged as a lesson package. The good news: the resistance to these forms of greenwashing is growing. Last week, another important victory was achieved on that dossier. The Advertising Code Commission rightly ruled that Shell announced a misleading message about its fossil product GTL at its technology festival Generation Discover. Thanks go to the important work of organisations such as Fossil Free Education. Does the Minister recognise the importance of these public watchdogs? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to greenwashing by others, such as the hunters and the bio-industrie. Does the Minister find it morally acceptable that hunters fool children into believing that you're helping a healthy animal by shooting it? Does the Minister know Wild's shocking magazine, aimed at primary school children, in which the hunter lobby has kids posing with guns and dead animals? There's a bucket list that promotes drift hunting as part of a real hunting day. The drift yacht is partly prohibited in the Netherlands. I hereby hand over a copy of this magazine to the Minister. The rulers don't have to fight for it, because I have another example. Then you can share it. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister share the horror of this kind of propaganda? What is the Minister going to do to address the hunter lobby? Is the Minister going to make a request to take this disgusting magazine offline? The following example. What does the Minister think of the children-oriented website of feed giant De Heus? That is where the deception really splashes off the screen. In the matching newspaper, which I also like to show and hand over to the other minister, children are told that it would be normal to take newborn calves directly from their mother and to see the cow not as an animal but as a milk factory. Chickens are sent to slaughter after six to eight weeks of stuffing. The paper even suggests that animals in the bio-industry would love their farmers. It's too cynical for words. Does the Minister recognise that this training material, drenched with business interests, does not do justice to daily hell in the bio-industry? How does the Minister look at the role that agricultural training can play in the inevitable transition to sustainable agriculture? Who or what actually protects vulnerable education from this kind of "business as usual" practices, which ensure that the future of these children is at risk at the moment? There is a non-binding and unknown covenant, of which the Advertising Code Commission is the referee. Earlier, I asked questions about it. Yesterday, the Chamber received the evaluation of this covenant, this agreement, which shows that the covenant is neither known nor successful. Half the school leaders are not familiar with the covenant and the non-committal nature allows for almost everything. What is the Minister going to do to increase this awareness and how does the Minister look at the option of giving the covenant a bit of teeth, for example by turning it into law, as the PvdA once initiated? The good thing is that the evaluation of the covenant contains valuable suggestions from school leaders and members of the participation council, for example the disclosure of all sponsorship and consideration, for example through an online notification point. It is also suggested to only work with socially responsible organisations, with sustainability and children's health at the forefront. What will the Minister do with these suggestions? I come to the second part of my contribution on animal testing. Mr Wassenberg would normally bring this in. In the spring of 2016, the House of Representatives adopted a motion by a large majority asking for the number of tests on primates, large and small monkeys, to be reduced to zero. We are now three and a half years away and there is not one monkey less kept in the BPRC, the laboratory center. There has been no less animal testing on monkeys and there will be no less euro in the coming years to the BPRC. The budget for monkey trials is and remains a small 10 million per year. This results in a lot of animal suffering and few scientific results. Everything just stays with the old. As far as the LNV budget is concerned, my colleague has already proposed that 1% of the hundreds of millions which the government spends every year on research with experimental animals should be earmarked and earmarked for research without experimental animals. Each year, 1% of the original animal testing budget should be transferred from research to research without animals. The Minister of LNV found it an interesting idea and undertook to investigate it. I would like to propose something similar here, only with a higher percentage, also in order to respond to the broad shared wish of the Chamber. The BPRC receives more than 9.6 million grants per year from the Empire. For 2020, spend seven tonnes on research without monkeys. That's just under 7% of the budget. And repeat that for the following years, i.e. in 2021, 14% for animal-free research and 7% for next year thereafter. In this way, the BPRC's monkey research will be completed in less than fourteen years, the will of the Chamber will be met and the BPRC will have the time to become one of the leading institutes in the field of animal-free research in fourteen years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u240	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. Right? No, Mr Bishop! Fortunately, Mr Kuzu remains seated; that saves. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u241	Thank you, Mr President. For a moment, I was afraid that you resented me for interrupting so much and that you drew it all from my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u242	Like some kind of punishment? No, I'm not. It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u243	But in comparison to some of my colleagues, I think I've been very restrained. Mr. Chairman. If we let the messages about education work on us, then the gloomy tones prevail. In the media you see the understandable concerns about education. That dominates so much that you would almost forget that there is also a lot of good and that there is a lot to be thankful and grateful for. That is why on this Day of Thanksgiving I shall come back to that later. But at the end I come up with a slightly more hopeful or invigorating perspective. First of all, the extra money. If we follow the discussions, the protests and the articles, then we understand very well that money is not the simple solution to the concerns in education. Of course, we have to look seriously at these finances, and when we do, for example, we also see that the fair picture is that the pay gap or the pay gap between primary and secondary education has narrowed considerably. I am therefore curious to see why the cabinet has not chosen to close the gap further or completely. A specific question: what is the cost of this over €100 per month difference in starting salary? That, of course, works structurally. I understand all that, but I'd like to get an insight into that. Accidental money in education seems to be the perfect way to stir up discontent, because you can do something with it right now, but you can't really make a policy on it. I also think that the position of school leaders in the design and implementation of this extra money is still a little weak. The shortage of teachers and the workload. It is often about too little available teachers and too much work pressure. In that case, according to the SGP, it is a bad signal to lower the level of training. Something is needed when it comes to customizing the legal requirements. On this point, I agree with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union about the kindergarten teacher of the past and the division of the pabo or, at least, the acquisition of separate powers as a kindergarten teacher. Can we expect rapid and targeted adjustments in this respect? Mr. Chairman. There is also a great deal of frustration about the extra burden of research, among other things. For example, when mapping the equity of partnerships, the inspection appears to have made an excessively extensive request. And that can't be the intention. Of course, we want to have a clear picture of this, but if it is right, the annual reports in principle already provide sufficient information, given the list of requirements for these annual reports. A question to the Minister: what will the Minister do to prevent such a thing in the future? So what is he going to do to avoid this additional burden in such an incidental investigation? The appropriate education. Schools are already hampered in providing tailor-made work that is better for pupils, parents and schools. The use of funding for the placement of pupils in private education continues to be a divisive activity. I understand that we need to be cautious and cautious about this, but we need some room in this, if we are to bring down the number of home seats, for example. The preparation of the Ministry and the inspection is not always clear. My question to the government: is it an idea to ask the Education Council for advice on this dossier? How does the Education Council view the relationship between public funding and private education? And how could this strengthen each other, with which vulnerable children in particular could be helped? Mr. Chairman. I had a point about applicants with a benefit who only apply to comply with their job application obligation and who send the most idiotic notes for that purpose. For the sake of clarity, I agree with Mr Rog of the CDA's question. Then I would ask for specific attention to the position of the Reformatorisch Collaboration Appropriate Education. As far as the objectives are concerned, their commitment against the shortage of teachers is in line with the regional plan grant scheme. Is the Minister prepared to see how this national partnership can participate in this? We are talking about a rural region, which makes cooperation within the various regions less obvious. Then something about the loan system. The current system is not sustainable; it has proved sufficient. It is particularly difficult for middle-income students. Fortunately, there is now the broad Coalition-Y, which wants to tackle the loan system. I have already said that we could take a good first step, because the time for warm words, working groups, consultation and reflection is really over. If we wait until after the election, we'll leave students in the cold for at least three years. For this reason, the SGP, together with GroenLinks........................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the amendment to item No. 25. It is a simple change that is possible from the coming academic year onwards. It is much less complex than the bill for reduced tuition fees. That could be introduced within four months. The amendment provides for the introduction date in the middle of next year. So we still have plenty of time to legally anchor that as well. Coverage must also be welcomed by the Minister for Education. So I'd like to hear her reaction. The Minister of Education is very much concerned with equal treatment from the point of view of emancipation policy. That is why I am now presenting to her the strange situation that RTL described this spring, namely of a father with 17-year-old twins, Jurian and Jarno. The crazy thing is that he gets child benefit for vwo'er Jurian, but not for HBO student Jarno, who did the Havo. The reasoning is that Jarno can borrow and therefore needs nothing, while the practice shows that father and son need more. Does the Minister consider this to be a fair form of equal treatment? Or is it really time to do something about this? I understand the bottlenecks, because one funding is at one ministry and the other funding is at the other ministry, but that kind of squatting policy has nothing to do with the citizen. I would really like to see a suitable solution for this. Mr. Chairman. Home education is also mentioned in the coalition agreement, but not so much work is being done. We all know that the current law is raging on all kinds of points and for all kinds of groups. Is the Minister familiar, for example, with highly gifted students who do not even receive enough in so-called leonardo schools? As in other countries, home education in such a situation can provide relief, but it must be organized. The SGP is also concerned that the pressure on parents is being put on in a variety of municipalities when they apply for the legal exemption for conscientious objection. Municipalities even threaten to report to Safe Home when parents invoke their legal rights. This can't be happening, can it? Isn't this contrary to the rule of law we say we are? Will the Minister discuss this, including with the municipalities and Ingrado, the organisation of compulsory education officials? The Minister has already shown that if the law is not properly implemented, he dares to turn his fingers on municipalities. I would like to encourage him to pursue a good and careful policy in this area, including towards the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say something about thanks and strikes. Today is a special day in the Protestant-Christian tradition. The first Wednesday of November is thank-you day. On this day in the middle of the week, the daily work is stopped as much as possible. That is different from the withdrawal of the educational people, as we have seen today. Time is taken to thank our good God for the many good things He gives us. There are indeed concerns. With my fellow Members, I am shocked at the absence of Mr Beertema. I also sympathize very much with him and wish him every success. There are sorrows, troubles and sorrows. Nevertheless, there remains much to be thankful for. He sustains the world, even if He strongly disagrees with what we humans sometimes do. That happy message of the gospel is there in our country. That alone is why it is great that we can have today's thank-you day. I must say that I have not been able to practice it here today because of my presence. I hope to be able to make up for that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u244	I hope so for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u245	There is also cause for gratitude for celebrating in the presence of all these colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u246	Well, that's very well formulated, as always. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u247	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to wish my colleague Bertema a great deal of strength. Although we have different images about the world, society and people, I always thought he was an enrichment for the debate. I wish him, his family and his group very much strength in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. Education is the foundation of everything. Education is development and progress. Education is equal opportunities. Education is the source of our prosperity and well-being. Education is also the main activity of our children and young people. They don't have it easy these days. The young people are sighing under a high performance pressure from our society, which is increasingly expecting from them. The young people sigh under unpaid housing costs. Young people are sighing under increasing flexibility in the labour market. Young people are also going to pay the growing ageing population with increasing pension contributions and increasing healthcare costs. Actually, it's not so much fun being young at this time, but I'd like to get back to it. Research after research shows that this generation of Y, also known as the millennials, does not have it easy. Politics should actually help these young people. Politics should provide solutions. Today we do this on three points: a plan to offset some of the effects of the basic grant by flexibilising the OS student card; appreciation of teachers and teaching assistants; a plea for the preservation of freedom of education. Mr. Chairman. In 2015, the basic exchange was abolished and the anti-social debt system was introduced. Instead of a basic grant of approximately €300 per month, everything has to be borrowed since 2015. And instead of being absolved after 15 years, the student debt is only finally cancelled after 35 years. It's just before your retirement that you finally get rid of your college debt. The antisocial debt system feels like a lead burden for generation Y. As a result, students start their working lives with a student debt of €20,000. As a result, students can get €40,000 less mortgage and are right behind the already tight housing market. As a result, some students do not study as a result of the loan version. Any young person who misses opportunities as a result of the antisocial debt system is one too many. That should not be necessary in this prosperous country. It is therefore incomprehensible that politicians who were at the cradle of the antisocial loan system think of long-term students like Rutte and Pechtold, who do not give this generation of students what they themselves have been able to make ample use of. That's unfair. Until the abolition of the antisocial loan system, the DENK Group would like to propose an interim solution to improve the situation for students. That doesn't have to cost a lot of money. Students currently have the O.V. student card. They can travel free of charge either on weekends or on weekdays. Outside the chosen period, additional payments must be made. According to the data from DUO, this costs each student on average €63 per month. DENK's proposal is to make the student's annual card flexible. Give each student 220 days a year on which free public transport can be used. For example, if you don't have to travel on Tuesdays, but want to visit your parents on Saturdays, you should be able to. This will give students a little support in these difficult times. I would like to hand over this proposal to the Minister of Education through the messenger. I would be grateful if the Minister would respond to this proposal in the second term. In these times, it's important to distinguish yourself from your colleagues. Members of the Christian Union also have an action plan, so I put a bow on ours. I have a copy for both ministers as well as for colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u248	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u249	This is actually a gift. It doesn't have to cost a lot of money. I'd like to see a response. Mr. Chairman. During the General Political Reviews, the DENK Group tabled a motion to abolish the antisocial loan system and restore the basic grant. We are pleased that this motion was supported by the entire opposition. A support of 74 seats is in some cases a harbinger of a real change, especially now that the opposition has 75 seats. What is also a sign on the wall is that two coalition parties who voted against this motion, namely the CDA and the Christian Union, have publicly indicated their desire to get rid of the antisocial loan system. So there's a potential spacious majority in the Chamber to make it. During the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister indicated that this should be the focus of a next round of formation, but I think we can get right to it. Mr. Chairman. The proceeds of this crisis measure are also relatively limited if you look at the whole of the rich budget. We are actually only talking about 0.3% of the entire budget. The affected group is hit disproportionately hard. And to think that this 1 billion in savings is justified by promising that this amount would be invested again in the quality of higher education. It is not clear to us what has been done over the last four years with this EUR 4 billion that has been taken away from students. What is the state of play with regard to the EUR 4 billion? Is it true that this amount has not yet been spent? What we shouldn't have is that the money is going to look for projects. That's the wrong order at all times. I would prefer that this EUR 4 billion be invested in the shortage of teachers, because education is also a distribution of knowledge, power and income. And that's what Prime Minister Joop den Uyl talked about in the 1970s. Many, including our constituents, are still grateful to him for that. The PvdA was then left and social democratic, in the opposition but also in the government. Fortunately, the PvdA is still left-wing and social-democratic in the opposition 40 years later, but once in the government it shakes the ideological feathers with playful ease. For example, the PvdA Education Minister Jet Bussemaker introduced the antisocial loan system from September 2015. Now the current PvdA Group claims to want rid of that system. Now the PvdA shouts very loudly that the teacher's salaries should be raised, but when the PvdA was on the buttons, they used the zero line for years, so teachers didn't get a penny. The Rutte/Asscher cabinet has pursued a tough austerity policy. Some of the consequences of this austerity policy, such as the disappearance of nursing homes and large parts of home care, are difficult or impossible to recover. But another problem, namely the shortage of teachers, can be resolved. The stories about oversized classes, failed classes, unauthorized teachers for the class and too high working pressure continue to flow in. In Amsterdam, a school even had to close its doors because of the shortage of teachers. Of course, this school hasn't been doing well for a long time, but still the situation is poignant. Today, there is once again a large and justified teacher strike throughout the country. I wonder: why is the Minister not prepared to listen to the teachers as closely as his colleague from Agriculture listens to the farmers and the builders? Where is the structural wage increase that is being asked for? Surely we must be able to achieve this on a rich budget of EUR 302 billion? We have been in surplus for five years now. The money's messing with the plinths, but we can't make this happen. Mr. Chairman. The 460 million euros offered on Friday consist of more than 96% of occasional money. Of course, this is not going to help to combat the shortage of teachers. Is it true that by 2030 we will have about 6,000 teachers too few? Who will explain those 6,000 empty classes in 2030 that Minister Slob thought in 2019 with a one-time tip to solve the teacher shortage? That's a drop on a glowing plate. As far as we are concerned, the Minister should take an example from Minister Toxopeus. That should especially sound like music to the ears, because he was from VVD-huis. In 1963 there was a Toxopeus round. For years, underpaid officials were finally given a substantial wage increase by Minister Toxopeus, which made it attractive to work in the public sector. Because underpayment is ultimately very damaging to the quality of an entire sector. But if Minister Slob continues in this way, the saying East Indian will turn deaf into slobbian deaf, because too many motions and too many proposals from the Chamber are dissuaded by default. While, for example, Minister Ollongren scatters with judgment Chamber, this Minister is the Minister of No, No, and yet again no. It seems that this Minister of nyet considers the Chamber as an annoying intermediate station between his undoubtedly busy activities. Mr. Chairman. We are very good here in the Lower House to show our appreciation for that profession that has an important role in the lives of our children. In words, we're very good at that, but in deeds? It's time to deliver butter to the fish. According to the cabinet, the shortage of teachers is a top priority. A top priority also includes the structural provision of money for a substantial wage increase. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, salaries in primary education are aligned with those in secondary education. Mr President, I see that I am running out of time. Then I'll make up for it. You can count on it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister whether, like Toxopeus, he will give a salary round to the teachers, in this case not a Toxopeus round but perhaps a Slob Round that goes into the history books. Or would he rather go into the history books as the squeezer and the turnaway from primary school? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the primary school teacher's profession is falling, unfortunately. As a teacher, you used to be a village notable, along with the notary and the reverend. But let's be honest: now there's the feeling that you've chosen the wrong profession. Of course, that's not true. That is precisely why we must appreciate the profession not only in word, but also in action. In addition, the Christian Union colleague has rightly pointed out that this wonderful profession needs a male emancipation. What is the reason why 85% of primary school teachers are women and only 15% men? Why isn't the profession attractive enough for men? In other ways too, diversity can be improved. I therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to set targets that he can monitor annually and assess on progress achieved. Mr. Chairman. I come to my third and final point, namely the freedom of education and the freedom of direction and organisation of schools. As is well known, this right is enshrined in the Constitution in Article 23. The second paragraph of Article 23 states that education is free. Paragraph 7 lays down that special education is to be paid out of public funds according to the same standard as public education. This is, of course, a historical consequence of the school struggle of about 100 years ago, when universal suffrage was introduced. The constitutional freedom of education is a great asset, but unfortunately I see that it is being nibbled more and more. At least the PVV is honest about that. They say very clearly that they want to ban Islamic education. However, as often happens, I regret to note that other political parties are also working in this direction. Let me be very clear about this: individual organisations, individual schools or individual teachers who preach a message of hatred must be tackled with great care. But to try to make life miserable because of a number of messages, it just can't. I know a lot of teachers in Islamic education who are working hard day in and day out to prepare children for a future in which they can live happily with others who do not share their views, and those teachers have also participated in the national strike action today. The constitutional achievement of freedom of education must not be trampled because of Islamophobia. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u250	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u251	I just heard Mr Kuzu say that political parties are trying to limit Islamic education in the Netherlands, I think. My first question is whether I heard that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u252	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u253	I am always willing to learn, so I would like to ask how the Animal Party is trying to restrict Islamic education in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u254	Let me make an exception for you. I did not say that all political parties do so. I mentioned a number of political parties and if the shoe fits, attracted him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u255	Okay. Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are talking about education and culture. Both are in crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u257	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u258	I know about what you're gonna say, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u259	We have another debate for that, for culture. However, I am pleased that Mr Baudet is taking part in an education debate. I'd like to say that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u260	Okay. That's nice, too. For you the same thing, Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u261	I just want to give the tip that the debate on culture is in a week and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u262	I speak today between education and culture. I am disappointed that not all members of staff have seen the connection between these two and have limited themselves to education, education in the narrow sense of the word. I want to go wider, because both are in crisis. Education has been the victim of stupid equality thinking, market forces, merger control and management targets for decades. A creative nihilism that Party of Labour, D66, the VVD and all other left-wing parties have on their consciences and that our education has finally fallen prey to a staggering deterioration process in which an ever-increasing havoc has become apparent across the board. Even freshmen at Leiden University, where I taught for years, who had six years of vwo, had not yet had the most elementary sense of Dutch spelling, had no idea who Mao Zedong or Willem van Oranje were and had no concentration span. If that is the case, it shows how these basic skills are in the rest of the new generation. Education is therefore failing and culture is already in an equally regrettable state. The two can be seen in isolation: education crisis and cultural crisis. We are deeply involved in these issues as a Forum for Democracy. We do not believe that the state, an ever-expanding state bureaucracy, can solve the big issues. Nor do we think that the free market, the game of supply and demand, like an iron, can smooth the folds in society. The success of a civilization, the power, is the people themselves, the shared culture, the rooting, the connection, the spiritual and moral capital. Most of us here want the fruit, but not the tree. That is at the heart of our criticism of the party cartel, which is at the heart of our criticism of the policies of recent decades. Because we believe that society is an organic whole, which only the strength can find within itself, we are thus opposed to mass immigration, for example, which continues and is constantly being fueled. That is why we are against the European Union, which accepts our integrity and independence. We are in favour of a national state. We are in favour of a small government with self-reliant people. We are against modern architecture, precisely for that reason. You can't have an organic society if the housing doesn't match the human dimension. These are all things that intersect, that are logically related to each other. That is why we see in education and culture the absolute core of what we as a government have to formulate, in which the State must take a position. But how can education be put in order in a society in a cultural crisis when the aim of education is to show people their place in society? That society actually doesn't offer a home anymore, which actually doesn't offer a place at all. What can education actually do? What's it referring people to? If we are all uprooted, how can we take root in a training institute? Is it really strange that if you zoom out and see a country that no longer wants to defend its identity, a civilisation that has fallen prey to oikophobia, suffering from pathological self-hatred, which opens its borders, denies its own history, mocks its own religion, a society that no longer wishes to carry out its own culture, also has a devastation, a ruin, of an educational system? Actually, that makes a lot of sense. These two are totally causal and logically linked. I come from an education family. My parents have both worked in education their entire lives, so has my grandfather, his father. For 200 years, the Baudes have been in education. I myself worked for ten years at different educational institutions as a teacher, as a student assistant, in all kinds of ways, before taking the leap to politics. From home, therefore, I am deeply aware of the enormous importance of education, of the unbridled commitment that teachers give every day, of the often limited salary, but also of the enormous satisfaction that it can bring together with young people to achieve something and help young people get the best out of themselves. That is why I feel so sorry for teachers who are on strike today, the teachers who are being heard today. Forum for Democracy and I personally want to stand up for them, and like them, I am furious because of the past decades of predatory education. The philosophy promoted by the established parties is fundamentally wrong. The fusion thinking, the management thinking, the layers of management that have been rigged up, the giga education institutions; all these things together are part of the policies of the past decades. There's gotta be another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u263	If Mr Baudet is so furious with the teachers, I wonder why he has consistently voted against our proposals to close the pay gap. But my question was about something else. Mr Baudet talks about Dutch society, the Dutch tradition and then says in a subtle way: a culture that mocks his own religion, I mention one of the examples that he mentions. Now Mr. Baudet is also working on a beautiful series about Dutch thinkers from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u264	And the question is, Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u265	When you look at Erasmus, for example, I think the Praise of Foolhood is a piece of cultural heritage that we should be very proud of and which focuses on the mockery, the mockery of yourself, your own tradition, your own society and the people around you. How, for example, does Mr Baudet see Erasmus in such a tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u266	We voted against all the motions to close the pay gap, not because we do not think teachers in primary education, primary education, should be better paid, because we do, but because we do not think they should earn exactly the same as those in secondary education. So we are in favour of increasing the salaries for teachers and teachers across the board. This is also easy to do if we let go of the two mega-projects in which the whole established policy has been committed, first of all the massive and continuing immigration and, secondly, the climate madness. That costs us tens, hundreds of billions. That's where all the money we all make goes. That is why this huge discrepancy is taking place in the public sector. So we have a very clear, very simple, very clear alternative to that. We will always vote for that. But what we do not want is indeed the SP spirit, and that is everyone paying exactly the same. I don't think that's wise. I think you really should pay more for people who teach at a higher level. That fits in with the pay structure of a society and therefore also with a government I believe in. Then there's Erasmus. I do not know if you wanted to ask a specific question about his book Praise of madness or about his oeuvre in general. For example, Erasmus is praised by Stefan Zweig in various works as the last man who could still guard the unity of Europe in times of Reformation, etc. I think Erasmus has played an incredibly important role in trying to defend and unite the Christian world, of course with ridicule, with irony and with all kinds of ways of looking against tradition, as we have always done. Precisely also Christianity has a kind of ironic side...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u267	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u268	... because it emphasizes, in those four gospels of the New Testament, that there is always a distance between what is the reality of faith theory and what people can tell, for those four gospels speak against each other and so on. That is, of course, very much in the case of Erasmus. But I certainly don't see him as a nihilist, if that's what you mean. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u269	Is it clear to you, Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u270	The first part is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u271	Well, the second part, I think, too. Now for another specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u272	No. No. Mr. Baudet says it's simple and clear, and he's right to think that people in elementary school earn less than people in high school. I disagree with him, but that's a legitimate position...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u273	But I do think both groups should make more money than they do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u274	No, no, Mr. Baudet! Mr. Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u275	Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u276	Mr Kwint has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u277	...and he ended his treatise on Erasmus with the question of whether that was what I meant. No, that wasn't what I meant at all. I meant that Erasmus, in Western European tradition, is a textbook example of the irony and mockery of our own culture, when you say, in a sense, that a culture that is ridiculed itself is deadly. So the question is very simple: is Erasmus part of it, is there going to be another video about Erasmus, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u278	I think we are dealing here with several semantic ideas of the concept of "spots." I have nothing against ridicule at all, but I have something against a civilization that can do nothing more than mock, mock and ridicule its own traditions, religions and so on. I think there's an important distinction. I think we all know that in life. A cabaret is funny well, I don't usually think they're funny, they're usually left-wing assholes when he's next to mocking everything and telling a story. Exactly that balance makes great art. Flaubert, the same story: a writer, who constantly mocks Madame Bovary and at the same time puts a deep, inner conflict in a very serious novel. Something serious to put down art, religion, and so on can't be without any self-relation and self-relation. But at the moment that's the only thing that's left, and now it's like, sometimes it's like, "Oh, that's very sad and very sad." If our new generation knows nothing more about Christianity than "that was very bad, because it was responsible for the crusades, point," then that is very sad. But that doesn't mean that, if you know a lot about what Christianity has brought, you can't also have an eye for the shadows. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u279	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u280	We can only see shadowy sides! That's a sign of disease; that's a symptom of oikophobia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u281	On the one hand, there is, of course, a very obvious link between the state of education, as Mr Baudet is now describing, namely that it is a big mess, and on the other hand 200 years of Baudetjes in education. Maybe we shouldn't. Maybe that's silly. I do have one more question about the following. Mr Baudet outlined a link between culture and education. That's what I agree with. I think there's a big connection there. But I am very curious about the way in which Mr Baudet would describe that culture now. 'Cause it looks like he's describing her as something solid, something we need to hold on to right now. In doing so, he runs the risk of committing cultural fossilisation. Because what exactly is the culture he wants to protect? Is that the 1850s or the 1950s? What is the cultural image, according to Mr Baudet, in which education plays a certain role?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u282	Okay, clear. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u283	For example, it could be that we should not make the Netherlands bigger, but that we should make the Netherlands smaller again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u284	Mr. Van Raan, this is a big contribution. This isn't an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u285	But I actually think it's a very good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u286	This is very annoying, because we're having a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u287	No, you're not talking!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u288	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u289	No, you're in a debate. And then you just have to ask a question, and briefly. The same goes for you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u290	Well, that was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u291	I agree with the implicit point that culture always develops, is open, and that it is absurd to say: I want the river to be exactly as it was an hour ago. It can't be. Everything's flowing. But I think the moment you start loving your own past, the future will also become more visible. What we are doing now is ultimately, if you go to the deepest philosophical layer, a cultural Marxist attempt to create new people, who would not be hindered by authoritarian structures, which would give us a better society. It doesn't work. We'll just see. So we have to start rooting people again. People need to learn things again, people need to learn authority relations. I think we can generally say that over the last 2,000 years things have gone a lot better than the last 40 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u292	Mr Paternotte, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u293	I have a question about something in our century.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u294	Or were you earlier, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u295	Oh, excuse me, then you'll lead the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u296	Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u297	My question is a little more practical. Mr Baudet says: we support these striking teachers. At the same time, he doesn't think that pay gap should be closed. But that is precisely what a very large proportion of these striking teachers are demanding. Does he or does he not agree with the demands of those teachers who have gone on strike throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u298	I think they want two things, or actually three things. They want first and foremost recognition for the crisis situation. Two, they want to get paid better. But I don't think that's one-on-one pay gap closing, which is a little bit the shape it's got. "Better paid" may also be that you are better paid across the board. I really want to disagree with you on that. I really want to put that into perspective. But the third point that I think they also want is that I really missed out on most of the other parties, in all the contributions, but also in previous discussions on this issue is an analysis of where things are actually going wrong. It's not just money. It's also about wrong management thinking. It's about a totally missing vision of what formation actually is. It's also about... I will come to that in a moment, and I already know what the reaction will be, but it is also about immigration. It is also about integration problems in the classroom, importing people, from generation to generation, with a huge linguistic disadvantage, with a huge cultural disadvantage, with a culture of violence that is completely contrary to the good culture that we traditionally have in the schoolyard. Those are all themes that also play along, which are not one-on-one in "ah, man, just throw some money at it" to express...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u299	Finally, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u300	... even though I do think there should be more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u301	This seems to me to be a rather own interpretation of the teacher's demands. They stand here and also give in all kinds of manifestos and letters they send us...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u302	But you're doing the same thing. You can't say all the teachers this or that? Er...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u303	No, Mr. Baudet! Mrs Westerveld hasn't asked a question yet. She just started her line. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u304	My point is this. The teachers indicate: "We are underrated and our workload is too high. Please invest more in education." That's what teachers ask. I would like to ask Mr Baudet: if we make such proposals, will he see with us how we can invest more in education now, but also in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u305	Absolutely. We have also always said that more money must be provided, and teachers and other people in the cultural world must be better rewarded. However, we are opposed to a total Gleichschaltung of all salaries from primary education to secondary education to perhaps university education. I believe that steps can be taken in this respect. But that does not alter the fact that in the meantime I think that the people in primary education should also be better paid. I believe that more money should be made available across the board. And that can also be very easy, because Forum for Democracy, unlike all of you, doesn't want mass immigration to continue, which costs us an unlikely amount of money, and that climate hysteria is going to cost us 1,000 billion. We don't want that. So we have a lot of money left. All this society deserves is those two great idols, those two giant projects with which one is obsessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u306	Mr Baudet has often talked about immigration and about children in the classroom who do not speak the language. You also mentioned the Baudes. I think that for the Baudetjes, as for the Paternottes, they didn't speak the language either when they first came to the Netherlands. That's why I'm asking you a question. There are many students who come to the Netherlands from all over Europe and from all over the world. A lot of them stay here. We're making money out of that, too. Aren't they welcome, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u307	In my opinion, our immigration policy is one of the things that we have always said: we do not want Australian models, we do not want everyone to be treated in the same way, to see humans as some sort of statistical figure in an Excelsheet. We want to distinguish between different types of immigrants. People who bring something here, we still want to welcome. But we do not think that we should simply give someone a status on the basis of whatever motive that person has: an economic status or the status of being a refugee. We want those people in the region to be taken care of and then make money available for them. We do not want them to come to the Netherlands. Our migration policy is therefore fundamentally different from that of the past decades. We don't think you should look at how pathetic someone is, but at how much they can add to our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u308	That's what I want to know. So that Australian migration model of yours means that you only want to get students, top researchers and teachers, all those people we need to be a top science country, which we are now, only if we have picked them out ourselves, and they can't sign up here anymore. Well, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u309	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u310	All the benefits we now have of Europe's open borders...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u311	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u312	You'll have the floor in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u313	...so we can abolish with your policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u314	I do not know what Mr Paternotte means by'self', but at the moment we have a distinction as the Netherlands. For example, there are people who come here to study on the basis of exchange programmes or who come here as expats with visas that certain companies can obtain, which we have in principle temporarily here, and there is also an immigration policy. Of course, that can be combined, but they are separate areas in themselves. I think there's a good thing to say to keep that somewhat separate. Having said that: when I worked in Leiden, there was a huge push to merge Leiden, Erasmus Rotterdam and TU Delft, because we would then get higher on the Shanghai ranking for this or that and could attract more international students. While I think universities should primarily focus on training our own people, so training a next generation of Dutch. Of course it's nice to have an occasional exchange. Then you can sleep with someone from another country and stuff. That's kind of what these exchange programs are for. But as a serious target for educational institutions, I don't think it's in the top three or anything. I don't think it's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u315	Mr Baudet will get it done again. Mr Baudet manages to create a contradiction and project it on children in the schoolyard. His disgusting boreal vision reflects on children in the schoolyard, creating a contradiction of a good culture we had here and a violent culture where people would come from. What are you thinking? How do you manage to wallow your disgusting boreal vision on children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u316	Just keep your eyes open and you'll see it happen around you. Moreover, it has nothing to do with geographical origin, because there are good cultures also in the Australian part of the world. You really don't have to be in the northern hemisphere for this distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u317	Keeping your eyes open means you're actually gonna see what happens in schools. I see children playing with each other in my city of Rotterdam and in the other big cities. Children from 8, 9, 10 years old play with each other. They also have a fight, but to turn that into a cultural issue is disgusting. That's gross. That's just responding to the sentiment of an underbelly of a certain group in this society. He's getting it back together, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna distance myself from that. I think it's disgusting. I hate that he's doing it again, and now with kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u318	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u319	I am very pleased that Mr Kuzu has distanced himself from what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u320	He better be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u321	But it's true, isn't it? Look, it just happens. You can already see a huge segregation in education. I do not know exactly what specific example Mr Kuzu has in his head, but I think we can agree that it is a desirable ideal in that we therefore find each other that children of different origins find each other, play together, learn Dutch, feel Dutch and so on. I am in favour of that, too. So that's what we're agreed on. What we probably disagree about is that I think that in many cases it does not succeed, is not good and is causing incredibly many problems. That goes from bullying and bullying to much more serious conflicts of violence, but also to learning disadvantages. It's just a given. When you look at Cito scores and so on, there is just a huge two- or more- or polysharing visible in society. Those are facts. We can think differently about how that could or could not be solved or what caused it, but that this is a fact, I think, is quite clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u322	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u323	We cannot approach each other if you are going to transfer these kinds of issues from society in relation to educational disadvantages, which are very prominently present and which many people in the field are working hard on day in, day out, on cultures from which people come. But we will never be able to approach each other when it comes to transferring these educational disadvantages and problems in society to cultures where people would come from. The children you're talking about were born and raised here. Those are Dutch children. To put these children away as "of another culture" and to place them in front of the "good culture we have here" is disgusting! I'm gonna say this for the last time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u324	But what exactly is disgusting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u325	No, we're not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u326	Because it's a fact. They were born here, so in the legal sense they are Dutch. I don't think anyone's questioning that. But the fact that there is a much greater loyalty to Moroccan, Turkish or Islamic culture among them, among large groups of Turks and Moroccans in the Netherlands, and that it is dealt with in language and in behavior, for example, is a fact. That's a fact. You can call that disgusting. I also find it unpleasant that it is, but don't shoot the messenger. I'm just gonna tell you what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u327	I'm giving you the opportunity to interrupt because you haven't been interrupting all day. But I also want that to be completed at some point. Then I will go to Mr Wiersma and Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I really don't want to waste too many words on this. I have asked Mr Baudet a question three times and indicated what I think. And once again, Mr Baudet, in his reply, expresses a contradiction between Turks and Moroccans. Once again, Mr President, I say to Mr Baudet: they are not Turks and Moroccans, they are Dutch people with a Turkish or Moroccan background who are part of this society. You have to accept that the backgrounds of these people are present in this country and that this does not necessarily lead to conflict. Because unlike you, I see that a lot of children with a Turkish or Moroccan background are simply playing together. And that's a good thing. You are free to make a political point of that because of the underbelly of xenophobic Netherlands and to eat voters of the PVV, but it remains disgusting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u329	Again, this really isn't what I'm saying. I love it when it goes well. I think that's what we all want. I'm just a little less optimistic about how often things go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u330	Mr. Wiersma. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u331	Yes, you know me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u332	Yeah, that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u333	Is that why he's known? Is that true?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u334	No, he's known for long interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u335	Is he known for his brief interruptions? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u336	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u337	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm known for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u338	I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u339	No, I know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u340	Well, then I'm gonna interrupt you. Mr President, another corner. In my speech, I called for country strategies for knowledge and talents. We need to think better about who we need and what we do business with. Right now, we have the gates wide open for everyone, whether you're a Thai psychologist who wants to study our tax dollars or a very interesting Indian technician who we might miss right now, because Oxford prefers him to the Netherlands. We lack some kind of offensive talent strategy. I wonder whether Mr Baudet agrees with us. Is he prepared to think à la Canada about how the Netherlands can make clearer choices for who we need here? So how do we make sure that we get the most out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u341	Good. That's what you told me in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u342	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u343	Okay, that's very nice, too. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u344	That's good. I have regular education debates. Now, for the first time in two years, I have the opportunity to do the same with Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u345	You're gonna be so happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u346	I am, indeed. That's why I'm here. I have studied the views of the Forum for Democracy on education. What I read on the site is that the Forum for Democracy is all about the Finnish education model. Now I would like to ask Mr Baudet if he could go over some aspects of the Finnish educational model with me and tell me why he is making that choice. I hope it's something other than a boreal country. I would like to hear from Mr Baudet four or five reasons why the Finnish model is in his programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u347	Well, mentioning five reasons is a little too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u348	I distance myself from the institution that we go all the way, because that is not how we see it. We are inspired by models in other countries. We are therefore going for the Swiss referenda model in that we would like to be inspired by it. I also mention the Australian immigration model, but we're not all going to copy that one-on-one. What I like about the Finnish model and what is also celebrated internationally is firstly that you pay teachers better and that you look for teachers who are more often academically trained or at least better educated. You acknowledge that being a teacher is a skill that requires an awful lot of people, so you invest in that too. In addition, the authority that teachers have and the position they have in society is much higher. There is therefore much more appreciation for the work they do. That is not just a policy, but it is also a cultural change that I am in favour of. You recognize: boys, that new generation, they go through the hands of those teachers. We can be very proud of those people. Another aspect that I think is very important and beautiful about the Finnish model is that it gives the student a role in finding his own way at a very young age. You say very quickly: you can have your own day in a certain way... In primary education it goes a bit more towards montessori-like learning methods. In secondary education, much more efforts are being made to treat pupils much more equally in the practical and theoretical learning path. What we are doing too much in the Netherlands is seeing everything in higher and lower education. That hierarchy isn't really good for anything. A lot of people are fantastic at practical things. They are just as valuable to society as people who are very good at theoretical things. These are some aspects of the Finnish model that I find inspiring, but the way in which Forum means the Australian immigration model, the Swiss referenda model and so on is not aimed at a one-to-one takeover. There are far too many differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u349	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u350	Very interesting to hear. Indeed, the Finnish model is characterised by enormous freedom. I was wondering how that relates to the idea of the Forum for Democracy that we should have hotlines in education for teachers with certain views. I don't recognize that in Finland...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u351	That's just a big change of plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u352	How do you look at that? Are there also hotlines for left-wing teachers in Finland?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u353	No, I'm very sorry. I'm gonna step in. This point has been widely exchanged in the event of interruption, in my view between Mr Baudet and, I thought, Mr Paternotte or yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u354	When I was a teacher, I used to say, "There's no such thing as bad questions, and there's no such thing as stupid questions; the only thing that's stupid is that if you have a question, you don't ask him. I am pleased that Mr Van Meenen is asking this question. Then I can explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u355	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then you really should look into the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u356	Point of order. I ask this in relation to the Finnish model. I understand that you have today set out the assignment for yourself not to give me an opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u357	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u358	... while we have been listening to Mr Baudet for an hour. There will be endless answers to questions. I am asking a very specific question, not about hotlines in general, but about the Finnish model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u359	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u360	We will be ready more quickly if Mr Baudet simply responds than if we continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u361	Mr. Baudet isn't giving a quick answer. You know that, too. And you're not asking a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u362	You are doing Mr Van Meenen a very short time today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u363	If this is the effect of this intervention, I don't mind. I just wanted to say something, Mr. Van Meenen. Together with Mr Kwint, you have done most of the interruptions. So you have nothing to complain about. We have made the agreement, including in the Rules of Procedure, that an interruption consists of a brief remark or a short question. Hardly anyone's gonna stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u364	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u365	You will also have to deal with me tomorrow in response. I know how things are gonna be different tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u366	I really want to answer the question in relation to the Finnish model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u367	I'm really glad that there's something positive between you guys...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u368	Don't count yourself rich yet, Mr. Chairman. Much will depend on his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u369	That's good. You may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u370	It is precisely the autonomy of children, of young people, that must be promoted. This can be done by responding to the fact that political bias disappears from that classroom as much as possible. Once again, that hotline is not so much a hotline as we have already emphasized forty times against teachers, but against information in the classroom and in the educational curriculum. There is no incentive to start thinking critically, for there stop-laps and ideological bias are imposed as a kind of repetitive gift to students. That's what we want to fight. We therefore want to stimulate this open debate in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u371	Are you ready or are you moving on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u372	Thank you, Madam President. We have seen that the government has seen education as a lockpoint over and over again, not as a priority but as something that still needs to be done. The money that sometimes became available then went to exactly the wrong things. It didn't end up with the teachers themselves. This is evident from numerous reports and investigations. It goes to scaling, it goes to management! When I taught at the University of Amsterdam, you had 50% management staff and 50% actual teachers there. This dissimilar relationship is found in numerous educational institutions, mega-institutions that have been created by large mergers and where often very much has been invested in a new large building. Everything has to be done according to certain calculations, cost records and powerpoint presentations, but the teacher-student relationship is actually forgotten. Teachers in the Netherlands earn 20% to 40% less than their colleagues in similar countries if you compensate for the number of hours they have to work and for the size of the classes. We want to correct that, because that is unacceptable. It's possible. You can make those classes smaller. You'd better pay teachers. You should also strive for people to work full-time if they can. This can be done not only by making a full-time bonus work, but also by simplifying the tax system of surcharges and charges. As a result, a lot of people, who now earn 80%, will hardly make more money if they go up to 100%. All these ideas and all these Forum proposals are interlocking, including in this area, to create an incentive for people to work full-time. But it's wider than that. In the end, the problem is deeper. A financial boost is needed, but it does not solve the problem that the government, including in the cultural field, has shown a lack of vision. For decades, we have failed to give a consistent indication of what the education system is actually intended to achieve. What are Dutch children supposed to learn? What kind of people do we want to train? Why not re-evaluate practical skills? Why are you obsessed with being highly educated? Why are we even talking about high and low? Why don't we talk about different branches? What's the point? Why that sadism to make children who may have different abilities feel "you're low, you're low-educated" from a young age? That doesn't correspond at all to what you're going to earn later in life. A plumber, someone who can do practically incredibly good things or a stucco can earn at least as much as an academic. And I should know! Take the bureaucracy! The bureaucracy is a result of the scaling up and management. And that is another consequence of wanting to grasp a lack of vision in bureaucracy, in rules. If the picture is right, then it will be good and we don't have to think anymore. Make sure that in primary education more boys and men start teaching, so that there are always male role models. Let boys play more and play more. Do not force them to sit still in a straitjacket of the whole day, because that would help you tackle the ADHD problems to a large extent. It is so tragic that it all has to be put in a good and safe straitjacket, while just letting go of that energy can be so beautiful and so stimulating. But then there's another elephant in the room. Two elephants! I've been putting them in the interrupting debate for a while. On the whole context in which education operates: we want the basic grant back, we want that basic grant to come back immediately and students who have now built up a debt through the loan system are compensated. Those are all things that as a society you just have to invest in, because you want people to get the best out of themselves and choose an education. It does not necessarily have to be a high level of training, it can also be a practical training. That's very helpful as a society, so it has to be. You also want teachers to be able to find accommodation in city centers. But very soon you will come to all kinds of related problems that are not so much about education as about a society that is no longer in balance. There is far too little money for the public sector. That's because we spend all the money we make on that climate madness. There is far too much pressure on the social composition of our cities. That's because of the massive immigration. There's way too much pressure on the housing situation. This is because of two things: we are not building enough because of the climate and nitrogen rules and because the population continues to grow as a result of immigration. All these things are connected. People don't want to work full-time because they barely make any more money because our tax system is not working properly. The great thing is that the Forum for Democracy wants to make education an absolute priority. The tricky thing is that it is related to all the other issues of the mispolicy of the current established politics, which does not solve this as a single issue. However, there is good news, namely that more money is available. So we will also be tabling motions to make this work for the benefit of education. We will re-apply our reappearance to make available to education part of the more than 10 billion that this cabinet intends to spend on these absurd biomass subsidies in the coming year. There must be money and there can be money. But again, it's not as a single issue to solve. We must move towards a different vision of society. So we need to stop the climate hysteria and mass immigration and we need a different kind of tax system and other types of housing. Only then, only if our country's culture gradually recovers and recovers, can education, and the way to society, recover and start to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u373	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-06-tweedekamer-6.u374	I wanted to thank all the teachers and teachers who have followed this debate from the public gallery today, but they have already left. Oh, some of them are still here. Thank you very much. Thanks also to those who are no longer there, or who have followed through the Internet or via a screen outside this debate. I wish them every success. Tomorrow at 3 p.m., both ministers will answer the questions.
