ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with oral Question Time, with Mr von Martels' question on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State, whom I would also like to welcome, on Dutch truckers who are being thrown on the ticket massively in Great Britain. I call Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a truck driver, you will only have been in traffic for hours due to strikes by French customs officers in Calais and then just across the UK border being thrown on the ticket because you have been behind the wheel for too long. This is not a bad April 1 joke, but this was in a big article in De Telegraaf last Thursday. For weeks customs officers in France have been taking action for more wages, but also because of the Brexit, with all the financial consequences for our Dutch truck drivers. This creates huge traffic jams at Calais towards the tunnel to England, which loses days of travel time. In addition to the many delays that truckers face, heavy traffic fines of no less than 1,200 pounds are now distributed by the British, while the alternatives available, such as the ferry to England, are now fully booked. So Dutch truckers have no choice. Also a moment of rest on the French flight lane is not present, because the French police do not understand this. It's really hard to believe that we're gonna sit back and watch this go on for weeks. It is high time that the Minister made a sound sound in Europe to put an end to this unjust situation. Transport and Logistics Netherlands has rightly referred to Article 12 of the European Regulation on driving and rest periods, which states that Member States may refrain from issuing fines in special situations. This is clearly a matter of powerlessness. So the issuing of fines has to stop. That is why I ask the Minister to do the following. Has the Minister mentioned the issue in Europe and the French and British colleagues about these European laws and regulations? If so, how do they react to this? The second question is: how else does the Minister intend to increase the pressure in Europe to stop these unfair practices, also in view of the uncertain situation surrounding the Brexit? It is very important for our transport sector and for the Dutch industry that this should be clarified quickly, but above all that a solution should be found. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully share the frustration I feel with Mr von Martels. If, as a trucker, you simply do your job and get stuck in traffic because customs officers stop in France, of course, that's their right, but the Dutch transport sector and also other sectors suffer from this and you are also thrown on the ticket once again when you come to the UK because you have broken the driving and rest period law, while you can't do anything about it because you're driving in that tank and can't go backwards, that's an undesirable situation. We're all in agreement on that. After we got this signal from TLN, I contacted both the French and the British sides. I have addressed them to the possibility of Article 12. This has already been used in the past, in relation to the risk of climbers, the people who wanted to stowaway into the UK. Then the situation was that they didn't want to stop, because otherwise those climbers would come in. The possibility is therefore known in both countries. In addition, Article 14 of the driving and rest periods legislation and regulation may offer a slightly wider possibility. I have indicated that I do not care whether Article 12 or Article 14 is being used, if our drivers do not suffer from strikes elsewhere. They're still looking into it. I cannot yet answer the question of whether they are actually going to do it, but since the possibility has been applied more often in the past, I have good hope that we can get out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u5	It is good to hear that the Minister has indeed already had contact with her British and French colleagues, but there is still a bit of a hint around the answer: "We are going to see if things are going to be okay." We need to be clear quickly, because these lorry drivers are struggling and are at risk, even today, of being faced with these fines, of being around €1,200. Of course, that's a lot. So why can't it be arranged immediately tomorrow? What's the wait for, I wonder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u6	It is still awaiting a final reply from those colleagues, but you are right. I would also like to go wider, because you probably also know that you are well aware in the file 'Tachograph' that you will be able to read it in all kinds of countries for another 28 days, wherever that fine could be imposed. I would also like to discuss this further at European level, so the Commissioner can also play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u7	Suppose this is resolved tomorrow, because I'm kind of assuming that this will be resolved soon, then we'll have to deal with that hard Brexit. Then what are the consequences? Does the Minister have any idea how that will develop?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u8	With this hard Brexit, of course, we are also trying to work with other countries on all sides to avoid congestion as much as possible, but we also know that it is going to matter when you as a truck driver take your cargo to the United Kingdom as a third country, as a non-EU country. That means no less than nine forms per truck, where you need zero now. I've just been visiting a company. They showed me two walls there with post-its of all steps they had to take to get that one truck in the UK. So it is not unthinkable that a large part of the lorries do not have that in order. It is precisely for this reason that I also think it is important that we resolve this point now because, especially in the run-up to that possible hard Brexit when it occurs, we really need to be prepared for long traffic jams. So I very much underline your plea that we should also take this up on a European scale, including in the context of Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u9	Good to hear the Minister is actually going to take steps. If that doesn't work, I'll be back here soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u10	That's your right, Mr. von Martels. Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. In any case, it is good to hear, as a first point, that the Minister is busy resolving this for the transport sector. Only, I would advise the Minister to start close to home first. I went to a transport company yesterday and we found that the driver is currently building up his mileage registration continuously, from care centre to care centre. And that if he doesn't, he's going over his driving and rest periods. What now, at the moment, results in the driver just taking a parking ticket because he has to park along the highway, because there is a shortage of those care places. What is the Minister going to do in the Netherlands in the short term to solve exactly this same problem, which results in terrible fines, in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u12	Here too, we are building Europe together. I sent a letter to your Chamber last week saying that we have received European funding for some of the projects in the Netherlands where we are creating new parking spaces specifically for this purpose. We are also looking together in the context of the freight corridor, with the regions that are all along those transport axes, at where we can build even more parking spaces. Also in the context of anticipation of a possible hard Brexit, we have already premeditated a number of parking spaces in the area, especially around the port of Rotterdam, specifically in case we need them. So in the last few weeks, the asphalters have been driving around for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr Van Aalst, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr President. It is of course fantastic that all those places around Rotterdam are built, only, after Rotterdam there is a new world. That means that in that freight corridor towards Germany and the rest of Europe a lot of trucks go up and down every day. Every day a nursing home is closed instead of new ones being opened and what is now there is really pitiful. So what is the Minister going to do to solve the freight corridor in its care centre towards the other side of Europe instead of just looking at the Randstad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u15	Fortunately, we do a lot of that too. One of the European projects supported is at Asten. That's just in the Netherlands, but that's a long way from Rotterdam. I mentioned Rotterdam's example because of course the problems with the Brexit and the roll-on/roll-off trucks are expected there. In addition, I have already mentioned to you once before that we have made good arrangements in our contacts with my colleague from North Rhine-Westphalia, Hendrik Wüst. I believe that Mr Dijkstra had tabled a motion that said that they should not be driving on Sundays in Germany, which causes problems at the border. That motion was passed by your Chamber, so I spoke to Hendrik Wüst about it. This has resulted in them building additional parking spaces on the German side as well. I can send you the numbers before the next consultation on road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u16	It's a nasty situation. The French strike; they do so more often. But the Dutch drivers are the victims, because they are indeed driving in that trap. And then the Brexit, whether or not a hard Brexit. I do fear that these lines will only be longer, that it will be waiting longer and that more people will be in violation. Does the Minister share that with me? Then what can we do at anticipating level? Is there perhaps also a possibility that this cargo could take place via the Netherlands instead of going through France?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u17	We cannot move the tunnel to the Netherlands; that will not work. We can't open a new can of ferries either. You can see now that they all have to go through that tunnel because the ferries are all occupied. So we will make maximum use of that. I'm really trying to be prepared for it together with the Port Authority, with the police, with customs, with the NVWA and with the city. But we can't quite guarantee that every entrepreneur... Then you should also bear in mind that 50% of the lorries going to the UK via the ferry do not have a Dutch origin. So I don't know if they all have it as well in all those other countries as we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u18	Here's what I'm gonna say next to what Mr. Van Aalst just said. You talk very much about the Rotterdam harbour, but last Monday I was in beautiful Zeeland...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u19	Surprising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u20	Yeah, surprisingly. Last Monday I was told: we have sufficient storage capacity for rail, for example, but we too are still waiting in the port of Vissingen for sufficient storage capacity for trucks. It has been mentioned a few times before: this is a taste of what can happen when a hard Brexit comes. You said a few weeks ago that there is no problem in the port of Vlissingen. But is that true? Are there not many more places where we need to take action quickly at the moment? 'Cause the clock's ticking. We've got ten days to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u21	I am assured that there are 20,000 places available in the Vissingen harbor. That should really be sufficient, also in relation to ferry capacity. At IJmuiden and in other places we also looked. We estimate that we are sufficiently prepared. Again, we are not only looking at it from Rijkswaterstaat, but we are looking at it widely with all partners. Then we are not only talking about the parking spaces, but also about the right lighting, which your Chamber has called for, the monitoring, and we are ensuring that the sanitary facilities are in order. That's all included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-2.u22	Thank you.
