ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I'm glad you're back with us. The next item is the debate on the Kinderombudsman's letter on the integrated approach to aid for vulnerable children and young people. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Agema of the Group of the Party for Freedom itself. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Almost five years ago, I filed a motion. Now, of course, it is not so special that I should have tabled a motion, but that motion was about the Transition Committee on Youth Reform, which had concluded in its second report that the risks of the decentralisation process for youth care had become even greater. This report was a "go/no-go" for decentralisation. In the report, only 7 of the 40 points had a green light. We also received many letters from municipalities, aldermen, healthcare providers and parents with the cry that children would fall between shore and ship. We shared these concerns and, by way of motion, we asked the government to postpone decentralisation in the interests of the children because children are always more important than the pennies. But it didn't stop. Over the past five years, we have continued to receive distress calls: letters from municipalities, aldermen, healthcare providers and parents. Over and over again it was stated that the budgets were not sufficient, that the cuts were too heavy, that the rates did not meet. On 8 May, the municipalities made a final cry in an open letter: without extra money they should return the youth care tasks to the Empire. The Children's Ombudsman or, rather, Children's Ombudswoman sent a letter of fire to the Minister with a series of major problems in the youth care chain. Since decentralisation, problems have continued to accumulate. It is not possible to guarantee the development, security and perspective of a large group of children in our country. Mr. Chairman. I have said it before, I have rarely seen a letter containing so many problems. Above all, the Children's Ombudswoman advocates an overarching integral educational vision. It's missing. The problems the Ombudswoman sees have not come to light as thunder, because there have been many alarming reports in recent years and associated debates on rising waiting times, waiting lists, turnover ceilings, budget discounts and patient stops, sometimes already in the summer. But there was also the lack of specialist care for very vulnerable children. Kids whose lives were hanging by a thread. Children with suicidal or anorexia problems. Parents who were distraught had to watch their child sink further and further away. Children with a more serious problem are the victims of the new system, because municipalities prefer to keep the money in their own pockets. There is no beginning of a solution yet. Despite all these poignant cases of children, the Minister continues to present his action programme as a panacea for all these problems to this day. That is very annoying, because it turns out that this minister was wrong about his bravado language that a bag of money was not the solution. We need a lot of extra money, though. Many more children receive youth support. If many more children get care of many more people, more salary is needed, so extra money. This spring, another €1 billion extra will remain on the healthcare budget. However, municipalities do not receive a cost-covering rate for their youth care tasks. 420, 300 and 300 million euros is a lot of money and 1 billion euros is of course good at the PR reality of this minister, but what is needed is at least 0.5 billion euros structural, so every year. This farce is the result of a cockfight between Minister Hoekstra and Minister De Jonge about who may be the successor of Sybrand Buma again over the back of children. The VNG sees the money as an intermediate step for a structural amount that should be higher. Previously, they threatened to return the tasks to the Empire if the Minister did not come to terms with them. That outcome could be a blessing. Because who here names the Emperor's new clothes? Who says aloud that the decentralisation of youth care has become a debacle and not the beginning of a transformation? Who says out loud that the word "transformation" has only been used here to save EUR 0.5 billion on children's backs? Who's the minister who's gonna stop this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. The letter we received from the Ombudswoman summarises the problems faced by young people and youth workers. I want to quote from that letter. "Persons are overloading." "Waitlists are running up." "Experienced forces leave care." "Young employees go to work with fear because they are not equipped enough to act properly in the event of escalation and to ensure the safety of the children they have in their care. There is not enough time to guide them." Those are really heavy lyrics. Those lyrics remind me very much of a girl I spoke to very recently. She said to me: I stopped calling aid workers by their name years ago; I'm just saying mister or ma'am. The girl knows that all those aid workers will be gone within a few weeks or a few months. She's seen so many different people in a short time that she's just saying "sir" or "ma'am." I believe that this is a sign of the situation in which youth care is currently in place. Caregivers run faster than they can actually. Work pressure's high. Cutbacks by the VVD and the PvdA in the previous cabinet have only aggravated that situation. Mr. Chairman. The Children's Ombudsman indicates that the most vulnerable children not only run into a pile of problems, but also a stack of laws, rules, accountability tools and agencies. The Minister responded to this letter. I thought it was a particularly thin note with especially some open doors. Yes, cooperation is important, but where are the Minister's proposals to stop the procurement in the youth care sector? It is precisely the calls for tenders that have to be made by municipalities that make it so difficult for them to work together. And there will be extra money, but that is far too little, as it turns out already. It's only for a few years. What guarantees does this minister give that the billion he has made available will actually end up in youth care and not stick with the municipalities? For example, is he going to ensure that this money is earmarked and that it can actually only be spent on youth care? Mr. Chairman. How does the Minister respond to the signals given to the Children's Ombudsman that it is the market forces that force institutions to work at far too low prices and prices? After all these years, why is the Minister still not doing anything about this? Mr. Chairman. There's no other way. I was in Heerlen last Monday. That's where I was told the story of a 17-year-old boy. This guy was definitely not doing well. He was heavy, just sitting at home and never came out the door. His parents couldn't motivate him to anything. The neighborhood team that stopped by thought first of psychic care. But because in Heerlen a method was chosen where there is no time pressure, where there is no pressure to diagnose quickly and where there is no pressure to refer quickly, one could take the time, drink coffee and smoke cigarettes, just as long as this boy came into the picture. The trust was won. And what does it turn out to be? All this boy wanted was to live a normal life. He wanted to go to school every now and then, skip school, do homework, don't do homework every now and then. He wanted to do exactly what all the kids do. That was not expensive help, but above all very personal help that has helped here. Help from a caregiver who gets the time and doesn't feel rushed by protocols and accountability. My question to the Minister is: what does he think that there are other municipalities that choose to introduce performance funding into youth care? That means that if you, as an aid worker, don't reach a certain goal, a child doesn't go to school when it's supposed to get some of your money. I find such an approach alien to the work that people do in youth care. It just doesn't belong there. In Heerlen, they don't do performance finance. There are no care arrangements and no complicated indications and referrals. The district team is responsible. That determines who needs what care at what time. Not competition, but cooperation in a cooperative appointed by the municipality. My question to the Minister is what he thinks of this approach. Is he holding on to the irresponsibility that we see everywhere now, or is he finally going to go for the professionals, to give them the freedom and responsibility to determine what good care is? I would like a response from the Minister to this approach of the municipality of Heerlen, which has undoubtedly been chosen in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you. Then Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. It is a good thing that we are debating youth care here today, because there have been and are serious concerns about the specialist youth aid, youth ggz, closed youth aid and youth protection. The alarming letter from the Children's Ombudsman in March this year summarized all these problems very well. The bottom line is that full aid to vulnerable children and young people is inadequate, while the aim of the Youth Act, which decentralised youth care to the municipalities, was precisely to promote this integration: one child, one family, one plan and an end to working side by side with organisations and the fact that young people were sent from the locker to the wall. Just one organization, the municipality, one person on the district team who helps the younger, signal earlier and help sooner and better; that was the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	Does Mr Raemakers realize, as he lists these dogmas, that that was one big fake of mantras designed to push a mega-saving of nearly EUR 0.5 billion over the back of those children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	I think Mrs Agema has a point. When decentralisation was discussed in this Chamber, my group, the D66 Group, indicated that we had a number of concerns. These concerns concerned the specialist youth aid, the youth-ggz, but also the budget. At that time, as D66, we warned: is it wise to combine this decentralisation to the municipality with such substantial financial discounts? Anyway, that happened then. I am pleased that this cabinet has already given extra money to youth care at three times, firstly by a deficit fund of EUR 200 million, secondly by a higher acres of EUR 5 billion, of which the Minister has indicated that about half can be used for the social domain, and thirdly, the cabinet now comes, together, with an extra EUR 1 billion for youth care. So Mrs Agema is right and this cabinet is doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Raemakers is wrong. It was D66 that was cast down in this room five years ago with all those mantras and that these mantras just repeated here. It didn't happen. Youth aid, youth care, is in very bad weather, partly because of D66's decision to support this whole decentralisation. This whole transformation did not come about at all, nor did it come about "close to the citizen." All these kids are falling apart, and we've had all these debates here. Now I'm asking D66 about this little talk about money. Of course, that's not gonna fill the holes either. So what is to be done now? Does D66, Mr Raemakers, share the view that something is thoroughly wrong and that perhaps we should reverse this whole system change, this whole decentralisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	I certainly share the observation that there are problems and concerns. In my introduction, I was in the process of identifying the objectives of decentralisation. In a number of municipalities we also really see that there are real improvements in the content of youth care. Let us not forget that they are doing very well in some municipalities, but I also agree in part with Mrs Agema that things are not going well in some places. I have some examples of this in the remaining three minutes. So I think we're pretty much on the same page. I will continue my speech. A year ago, we were here, too. Then I wondered, is the glass half full or half empty? We see good examples, but things also go wrong. I concluded last year that, for my group, the glass was still half full, but I am telling you quite frankly that I have had more and more doubts about it over the past year. The reports about young people who are long on a waiting list for psychic help increased. Young people in closed youth assistance would often not be helped in the right place. And yes, one thing came back consistently in all the stories: there is not enough money. I am pleased that the Minister, on my proposal, sent the study on macrogrowth in youth care to the House of Representatives well before 1 June. The growth of youth care is 12%. That is a very strong growth. At the same time, the deficits of municipalities amount to hundreds of millions, while they had to make substantial cuts. All in all, this is an impossible task, which has caused an increasing number of municipalities to suffer from comprehensive aid to vulnerable children and young people. The glass seemed more and more half-empty, while in many municipalities good results are achieved with decentralisation, where young people are really helped better and faster, for example with the practical supporter at the GP. I just mentioned that in the direction of Mrs Agema. But the financial gap limited our view of these good examples and that too often real innovations in youth care were not possible, although municipalities very much want to. D66 is therefore satisfied with the additional amounts released by this cabinet with this Spring note. Added up to over EUR 1 billion, but we are not there yet. The deficits of the municipalities remain a challenge. That is why we continue to monitor this closely. Next year we already have a new measurement. But even so: money alone is not the solution. We should not close our eyes to the conclusion that some elements of our system may have to be different, because why are there so many problems in special care for young people? D66 sees good leads in the Minister's letter. In some conditions, such as anorexia, psychoses, mood disorders, etc., and closed youth care, care may need to be re-purchased more above-regionally. We clearly read this in the cabinet letter. What changes in laws or regulations does the Minister have in mind? What date is the long-awaited action study for the youth-ggz? Hopefully before the recess. Can the Minister send this report quickly? And my final point: what role does the youth authority play as a specialist youth care for young people take too long? Is EUR 20 million sufficient for the youth authority for 2019 only? Or is there an option that we can also use additional funds for the youth authority from 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you. Then Mrs. Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. "That child care not only tells your parents what's gonna happen, but you too." The Children's Ombudsman will not have chosen this quote of a child randomly for her report of her children's rights tour last year. Today, in this Chamber, we are debating the letter of the Children's Ombudsman and children's rights with the Minister. The PVV calls for murder and fire over demolition. "Crisis, crisis" I hear from the SP yellows. And D66 prefers to celebrate, because the minister will make 1 billion extra available to the municipalities in the next three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	Yeah... Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	What kind of stupid talk is this? I didn't yell "crisis, crisis" at all. It is nice that Mrs Tielen writes that down in advance, but listen to what we are bringing into the debate, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	That's right, and I'll be right back to you, Mr. Hijink, because you mentioned something I'm going on about. I should have said, "crisis, crisis, I hear non-verbal from the SP yellows."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	You hear things nonverbal? Okay. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	We always use the word "degradation" in the context of hospital care that is broken down by the VVD. This is simply a question of lies, deceit, mantras and dogmas, with which half a billion euros, 450 million, have been printed out of the system. We all see it doesn't work. So instead of the VVD coming up with another report, and now a letter from the Ombudswoman, just comes up with excuses, excuses, and says: we're responsible for this, for five years we've been putting people's flour in our mouths, for five years we've been screwing around... No, instead, she's going to attack. What kind of crazy is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	I don't know what kind of answer to the question of what kind of crazy is. I hear Mrs. Agema asking if the VVD feels responsible. Yes, the VVD feels responsible and the VVD also very much wants the quality of our youth aid to go to a higher level, and that is what we are doing. Everywhere in the Netherlands, we are working hard on this. And I don't think apology is necessary right now. I heard that question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	We have a debate here after a debate on youth care. Debate after debate after debate about major things that are wrong, from waiting lists to patient stops and you name it. We see children getting between shore and ship who are even in distress, anorexic patients, suicidal patients. It is time for the VVD to stop looking away and look at its own responsibilities here. Is the VVD prepared to see it: all the lies, all the deception, all the dogmas, that it was just dirty politics that we had to cut half a billion dollars and that we should not just invest money now, but that perhaps the whole decentralisation should be reversed? Please let Mrs Tielen put her hand in her own bosom. I ask you: open your eyes, see the responsibility for the system you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mrs Agema has some big words again, and unfortunately that does not help us at all. Because instead of us taking advantage of each other, pointing our finger at each other and I know what it is all about, I think we should move on to what it is really about. If I may move on, Mr President, I will be able to make a few comments on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	First, Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	This introduction, of course, also calls for reactions from other parties that it mentions. I do not know where Mrs Tielen heard or read that I would party with extra money. When I was just in her place, I indicated that D66 considers it important and necessary that there really be a solution to these deficits. The VVD, Mrs Tielen, has also supported the proposals we made last year to ensure that we have all these investigations before 1 June. I assume that the VVD is now also content that there will be a solution to the shortages. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	The VVD is pleased that the municipalities are now going to have time and financial space to actually go where we need to go, and that is appropriate youth support. In that respect, I heard Mr. Raemakers say what Minister De Jonge also wrote in his letter: money alone is not enough. Fortunately, as extra money is now available, we are finally coming to answers to the questions we are talking about. I've missed that for the past year and a half. And that's why I went a little hard with the leg in it, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Let me go back to the real questions on the basis of another quote from the Children's Ombudsman. I will refer to Mr Hijink in a moment, because he will recognize the following quote from his contribution. "I don't know how many guardians I've had. I didn't tell you anything after a while. I didn't really trust it anymore." Mr Hijink referred to this as well. The Children's Ombudsman is very clear. She writes: "Rightly the children who need the most help often do not get this help or get it too late." And: "Maybe the most important explanation is that there is still too much talk about children instead of with them." And this is not just about major macro-related issues and policies, but just about the aid that needs to be provided for these children in their families. Mr. Chairman. As long as politicians in this Chamber and in the municipal councils continue to throw dyslexia and anorexia into one heap and raise them in a difficult family situation like ADHD care, we will not be able to improve youth support. As long as there are still more than five, more than ten, more than twenty aid workers in families, every euro is an additional risk of duplication. As long as I continue to receive daily new signals from children who are placed out of the house without independent security research, I am concerned about the youth protection chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	I think this is inappropriate. I would like to ask Mrs Tielen which politician here or in a municipality equates dyslexia and anorexia. I haven't heard anyone say that here, and I can't imagine that the municipal councils are talking about youth care in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	Since I was in the city council from 2014 until now I have never seen the term "youth aid" broken down. This morning, or just now, it was said that there is 12% growth. Yeah, 12% growth, but from what? We're always putting everything together. We don't make a difference between light and heavy care. We're not getting any insight. I'm going to go into the research we've been getting in general next week, but there are tables in there that you can't do anything with. I understand that Mrs Westerveld finds it annoying, but I think we should look at what it really is about and then use those insights for what we really need to offer help for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	But then Mrs Tielen will have to ask the Minister, and not say that we are throwing things together? Then, in this debate or in a motion, she can ask the Minister to divide it up properly. She could have done that last year. Then why doesn't she do that instead of pinning all sorts of blame on us? She puts all kinds of terms in our mouths that we haven't used here. Then what is Mrs Tielen going to do to make this clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	I understand from Mrs Westerveld that she feels attacked. I get that, too. But I'm a politician myself. I really think that we should ask these questions with each other and with all those politicians in municipal councils. Quite frankly, I also go with the VVD council members in the country to get those questions up. I had really expected a lot from the investigations that Mr. Raemakers referred to, but I did browse through it somewhat sadly, because I saw everything thrown into one heap. So I think we're talking a little harshly here, but we're on the same page in terms of content. We've got a lot of work to do in the next few days. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	That's nice. Today I like to speak, with the Kinderombudsman and also with the AKJ, who published his annual report last week, which I have concerns about two things. Next week, in general consultation, I will go into a number of other things further. But for today, I focus on the many signals from young people and families about the youth protection chain and the observation that many children and young people are not taken seriously in decision-making and communication about helping them. Firstly, on the youth protection chain. I have recently asked written questions about the certified institutions. We hear a lot of children and young people say they get too little attention from family guardians, or get another one every six months. Does the Minister also consider that a family guardian promises, in any case, implicit parental authority and protection? Does this minister know if that's how they feel? What does that mean for assessing the quality of assistance from certified institutions? Who's watching? I'd like a response. The AKJ also indicates that complaints are still not properly enforced. That's worrying. When is the Minister coming up with the follow-up to our motion adopted last year? I'd like a response. Speaking of motions, joint decision was also the subject of an adopted motion in February. This motion calls on the Minister, as far as I am concerned, to work with local authorities to ensure that young people have a say in decisions on youth aid that concerns them, because they simply want to live normally and not be saddled with twelve aid workers. Does the Minister have any insight into the execution of that motion? And if not, when? Mr. Chairman. Trust in yourself determines trust in the future. That's what conversations with kids show. Children gain confidence in themselves if others do, if they are taken seriously. I hope and trust that the hand-out that the Kinderombudsman will present will contribute to this in practice. At the same time, it is up to us and all the local councils in the country to ensure that the euros for youth aid lead to better quality support and help to grow up to be a free and responsible adult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	We heard Mrs Tielen say at the beginning that the debate should not just be about money, but about content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mrs Tielen then concludes by saying that she hopes that the money for youth care will ensure that good things happen. Does Mrs. Tielen think that we're doing well with child care now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	Then the question is, if you put it all together, what do you see through it? I think that's very difficult. You have often requested and led debates on it. In some forms of specialist help, it is still far from being properly regulated. I think that municipalities can do much better by bringing aid closer, combining youth aid and education support with, for example, debt and addiction aid, but that this is actually getting better. Unfortunately, in this Chamber we often talk about the most serious cases, and too little about the very large group with whom the help from the municipalities is doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	We have just heard Mrs Tielen say that the young people with heavy specialist help are not doing well. Does she agree with me that more steps need to be taken? What would she propose to do to ensure that these young people, too, are given the help they deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	I have already come back to that in previous debates. I would very much like interdisciplinary cooperation between highly specialised aid workers and family workers to be much more natural, so to speak. I would like to see more cooperation so that youth, youth care and youth support are not isolated concepts, but belong together. I would like to see one coordinating aid provider in families who also tunes out how care is provided. I think there's a hell of a lot of profit there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	I have been quite annoyed by Mrs Tielen's input, especially because everyone gets along with it except her own party, the VVD itself. My question is: how does she look back on bringing youth care to the municipalities? How does it view this whole decentralisation process, with the cut of half a billion euros in the previous government? That was VVD policy and PvdA policy. You can take everyone's measure, but how does she look back on how that went? Does she now think that it has been wise to cut so hard, half a billion euros, while municipalities were facing a very big task and needed more care? How does she look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	I think the big line that was deployed was the good one. But I do think that this transition in 2014-2015 simply did not go into too much depth about the insights and knowledge. I saw that myself in my own municipality of Utrecht. You could say that the tools, the grab handles that municipalities have received from the provinces to set it up with good knowledge and insights have just failed. Child care was in the provinces, so "youth back to the Empire" doesn't add up. But the line, the transfer and the goal: I still support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	I was, of course, referring specifically to the reduction of half a billion euros. Crisis, crisis, we have, of course, regularly said that the VVD is causing a crisis in youth care. Not only do we say that, but also the municipalities, which lack the money. Social workers say so, too. They say: we are going to strike, we are going to lay down the work if there is not enough money. So the question is: how does the VVD now feel that it has acted itself in recent years? Because I really do not think it is possible for everyone here to be taken into account, when it is obvious that the problems were caused by the previous government, by throwing these decentralisations so bluntly over the fence. In other countries it has gone exactly the other way. That's where the money came in when the care went to the municipalities. That's what should have happened here. That's what a lot of experts have suggested. The SP and others have all suggested this, but the VVD did not. I therefore think that the VVD should be critical of itself and say: we have simply failed there. That is what Mrs Tielen is entitled to admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	I like to be responsible and critical of myself and of the choices we make. I think failure is too big a word. The line's good, like I said. I still believe that it can be much more efficient than it has been done. I'm convinced of that. It's always easy to look back with the knowledge of today. Today's knowledge is still not good enough to draw conclusions about the insights we had about the population in 2014-2015 and how appropriate assistance really fits in with that. There's no way we can draw that conclusion yet. I do agree with Mr. Hijink that we should look very critically at that. We're really not where we should be right now. I recognize that, and I think we all agree with each other. There's still too many helpers out there in families. There is still too little listening to what really is the demand for help, and then really appropriate help. I am really shocked again, I will go into some more detail next Thursday in the AO in relation to a number of things in the investigation on the ground, but above all of all of the questions that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	Very good. Thank you. Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. What do we do for our young people? That is the question that was asked to me during a visit to a youth care institution, and which still concerns me. The youth care debate is dominated by the question of money: how much does it cost and who is going to pay it? Municipalities have significant deficits. There's a lot of stuff going on around invitations to tender. The coalition did nothing for years with signals that we need to invest in caring for our young people. What about the extra money for municipalities? How will the Minister ensure that this is spent on helping young people? How does the decline in the accres relate to this? At the same time, we need to talk about fundamental questions. How do we get young people the help they need? How do we put them at the centre instead of the bag of money or the system? That's what's going on in the letter from the Children's Ombudswoman that's on the agenda today. It is precisely the young people who need help most that are abandoned. We read desperate messages from parents about their child who is in danger of life and who is on a waiting list. We hear stories of children who have sometimes been transferred dozens of times because they first look at lighter and therefore cheaper help. Young people who, in a crisis situation, are placed in the first place to be released and so often end up in institutions that are not suitable for them. I speak to so many young people who are traumatized by this and who no longer have confidence. That's why a number of things really have to be different. That starts with taking young people seriously with mental problems, because it is impossible to sell 2,500 young people locked up, often because there is no alternative. Moreover, the facilities are not always in order. Institutions too often have small chilly rooms with a prison mattress and old stuff. Let us also imagine how traumatic it can be that young people who have been sexually abused should share their showers with 14 others. Amazingly I found it when I asked a younger person what facilities she would like standard and the answer was: a clock to know if it is morning or evening. Furthermore, repression measures, such as isolation in solitary cells, and measures which must be earned by good behaviour must be stopped immediately. Does the Minister agree with me that it is impossible to explain that these young people often have fewer rights than young people in judicial institutions? But even then, we're not here. A different solution is needed for young people with complex problems. If a child has cancer, then a team with the best specialists is ready. Why aren't there such centres of expertise with the best facilities and the best specialists for young people with complex mental disorders without the long waiting times that are now common? Will the Minister ensure that these kinds of centres of expertise are put in place and, please, make haste with this? Sometimes political debates affect you personally. A few months ago, I talked about Noa, 17 years old, sexually abused, resulting in a post-traumatic stress disorder, an eating disorder, a compulsive disorder and self-mutilation. I often talked to her about youth care because despite her struggle she always wanted to think about how things could be better now. Last week, she let me know she couldn't go on. After dozens of recordings, each time a glimmer of hope and then new disappointments she wrote: "We're out. I haven't really lived for so long, I survive, and not even that. I breathe but I don't live anymore." Friday she let me talk to her and not long after she went to sleep to stop waking up. And, Mr President, I am not asking the blame, but I did promise her to continue her fight for better youth care, and it also goes with the fact that her story and the stories of the few hundred other young people who are stuck because they are suffering from life continue to be told.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. Then Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, or whoever's using the button. Mr. Chairman. After this impressive story of GroenLinks a little silence. It'll take me a few seconds, but okay. Mr. Chairman. Most municipalities lack funds for youth aid. The VNG published an open letter on 8 May in which the municipalities demand more money. According to the VNG, the Empire has wrongly cut 450 million euros since 2015. In addition, more young people and parents call for help. The plea for more money is supported by Youth Care Netherlands and also by the FNV. Many aid institutions face financial problems. There are shortages of places for children who need specific treatments. The workload in some areas of youth aid is so high that employees leave or absenteeism increases significantly. Mr. Chairman. The CDA therefore agrees that additional money is needed at the moment to address the bottlenecks. That money is coming now, but the discussion about more money is actually the wrong discussion. We need to talk about the causes of the ever increasing number of young people in professional youth aid. At the moment there are not a few, but several municipalities in which one in six children needs professional help to grow up. In my view, the causes lie in an increasing expectation of government and professional youth aid. The path through which a child must develop is becoming ever closer, as if every child who follows his own way and pace had something. The same applies to the demands of the government and the authorities on education, as if the government and professional youth aid could control and solve everything. Without money, it cannot be done, but only sobriety and also modesty can save youth aid. Mr. Chairman. According to the Youth Act, the municipality has a duty of care, but nowhere does it state where that duty ends. According to the explanatory memorandum, the law deals with all problems of raising and growing up, including minor problems. This can extend the duty of care of municipalities to an infinite extent. That costs a lot of money, but what's worse is that the municipality becomes a caretaker. That cannot be achieved at all by the municipality, and I do not think that can be the intention either. There must be action in the law. The law must tell which support the municipality must and must not pay. The law should also give the municipalities more grip. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In 2015, most municipalities thought that they could save money by extending professional assistance to light questions about raising and growing up, as well as paying traditional assistance for a range of activities, including horse therapy, child coaching, mindfulness, homework guidance plus and extracurricular care plus. Now it's time for sobriety. If you do what you did and you keep expanding the free offer, it's really gonna cost more money. More professional help for light problems is not prevention and not own responsibility, but simply overestimate of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	I also hear a very correct analysis here. But isn't it too crazy for words that the CDA here was the party that repeated all those dogmas? "Under pressure of care; prevention of care; getting the lighter cases in the picture, because then you avoid heavier cases." And now I hear Mr. Peters actually just jumping to the opposite conclusion here. The CDA is responsible and has government responsibility. So what's Mr. Peters gonna do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	Look, there's three big conclusions in the Ministry's investigations. One. Municipalities are going bankrupt. Two. The heavy care goes bankrupt. And three. The number of young people in need of help is rising by 12%. But, as Mrs Tielen said, we don't really know who they are, how that came and where that money is going. I don't think that's a good story. And there is an idea underneath that: "It may be that we are in the capillaries of society and are looking for more and more problems." I don't believe in that. I also believe that you do not avoid the really heavy care at all by finding them earlier. You can't do that. I once heard someone say that psychosis could be solved more at the front by, for example, moving more. You can't do that. I believe so, and I'm going to do that, and I'm going to make a motion saying that as a government, we should just have the discussion about what's working. What is real prevention? What's small? And what just doesn't belong to the municipalities and should people do themselves? We're really busy helping out at the moment, I think... One in six kids gets professional help. Come on! You can't do that. We put so much money into very light things that there's just no money, time and energy left for the really big problems we see together. So I would very much like to table a motion: an amendment which makes it very clear what we can expect from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	A motion? It's gonna take a little more than that. The CDA is directly responsible for this, for the proper, proper analysis that Mr. Peters is making right now. But the CDA is primarily responsible for the introduction of this system and, secondly, for the maintenance of this system. After all, the Minister is going to argue that it is precisely the intention of the transformation to push the concern down from top to bottom, from residential to family homes, I do not know what. Mr. Peters rightly concludes here that that does not work, that municipalities go bankrupt, that institutions go bankrupt. My question now is to Mr Peters: aren't you going to take all this off with a motion? When will the CDA withdraw support for this policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mrs Agema will extend my speech. There are very serious problems that can happen to children, whether it's anorexia or serious psychosis. There's no way to avoid that with prevention. These things happen. You can't guarantee that either. It's bullshit to think you do that way. It is also nonsense to extend education support, the light care, almost infinitely and to allow municipalities to grant subsidies for everything. You can't do that. There can be an intermediate form, as Mr Hijink said, with very good district teams, which is apparently the case in Heerlen; I think we should go there together and look at them very close to the people and help the people. There is clearly defined what they are and what they are not for. There is a very good close support and a direct reference is made to the place where a child belongs if it doesn't work. We can, but we're not there yet. I'm glad you share my analysis. Let's just stick with that. Just don't stretch her to the limit. That system is not completely rotten; there is also a lot going well. Except we're a little flushed. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	I am not sure what Mr Peters means. I have just suggested that the professionals, the caregivers, should have much more space and freedom to look at and determine which care should and should not be provided. But Mr Peters is actually saying something quite different. He says the city needs more grip. The municipality must be able to determine: we do this and we do not do this. I don't see that entirely in front of me, because how can an official behind a desk decide what's good for a child while the professional, the health care provider, at school, in the neighborhood, nearby, at home, sees exactly what is needed? Then there's the solution and not the town hall?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	Let me give you an example, Mr. Hijink. Many municipalities no longer run calls for tender, as you just suggested, but work with so-called open-house financing. That means you have 200, 300, 400 under-contract providers who actually, if you're not careful, sell solutions and are released into the neighborhood to look for problems. It's gonna be expensive. Follow the Money wrote a very nice article about dyslexia last week. This is simply a matter for the specialist ggz, at least on paper; Mrs Tielen is right about that. Commercial parties are going to screen at schools. Then they start diagnosing children themselves and they're going to arrange for an indication to come through the municipality. Then they're gonna treat themselves. Then you can say that there must be more room for the professional, but I call this not a concern, but just a golden trade. You have to end it. I know what you mean, but that's not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	That's what I'm saying. The SP has been the first party to make cuts in commerce, in the market, in the madness of the procurement policy that we now see everywhere in the municipalities. We have always said about commerce in healthcare: you shouldn't want it, you shouldn't have it. Take, for example, those desks that look at the school gates for customers to offer their dyslexia solutions. We have to stop doing that right away; I totally agree with that. I mentioned the example of Heerlen. There they work together in a cooperative, which prevents many suppliers from making a lot of money. That's exactly the proposal I just made. But Mr Peters is proposing something else. He says that civil servants at City Hall are going to decide what good care is. I object to that, because it is the caregivers, the people who see and know the children, who know what is necessary. I hope that Mr Peters agrees with me. Maybe I misunderstood him. I hope so, because I do not think it should go that way at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	No, you didn't. You didn't understand. I didn't mean to say that, anyway. I'll come back to those commercial desks. Those aren't desks anymore. That's a million-dollar industry. There really are people becoming multimillionaires by working with youth care resources in this way. That cannot be the intention; we agree on that. I have tried to say that the municipality must be able to demonstrate which type of care is needed. There are municipalities offering bso-plus, extracurricular care plus. It's okay. They offer it for free and then conclude that there is a huge demand for it and that it is only growing. That costs a lot of money, and that goes away from the funds for youth care. Is that what this is all about? I don't think so. There are municipalities that have children's coaching on their site. That's fine, that's all good work and stuff, but is that a concern that the municipality has to pay for? I don't think so. Horse therapy? I don't think so, but we'll do it. I think we should all ask ourselves what is realistic, what concerns the municipalities should be compensated, because as the Youth Act now states, you could stretch it to the limit. I just don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think Mr Peters should be more specific. Because it's easy to mention a few examples of what municipalities shouldn't do anymore. But there will be many other examples of which Mr Peters will say: yes, but it has to be. The CDA has always been the party that said: let the municipality have autonomy, let the municipality decide what is right. What exactly does he want? Does he now want the municipality itself to be able to determine, from its own policy freedom, what good care is? Or does he think that the minister here should decide what municipalities should and should not be allowed to do? It's just totally contradictory what he's saying. On the one hand, autonomy for municipalities, policy making, and on the other hand, the minister must decide what municipalities may and may not offer. In my opinion, that clashes and I challenge him to come up with proposals of our own which we are no longer going to do as a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	I am not saying that municipalities do not have to do something, because of course they have freedom of policy. But we are in a situation where everyone says: well, the money for youth aid isn't exactly plotting against the plinths. We agree, don't we? If so, that is one conclusion: there is little money. Then I see that the number of youth aid questions continues to rise and rise, and these are not the heavy youth aid questions. If it was, we'd have another problem. That's light care, because it doesn't go to the heavy care. I conclude that we are now offering one in six, one in seven, one in eight children per municipality professional help to grow up. It is just time for all of us to have a debate and say: yes, but wait a minute, there are limits to what the municipalities must do. Of course, the city will do anything. Even if they pay for the tutoring for every child. I am fine with it, but that should not be at the expense of youth aid, the real problems. So what I'm just going to ask, even in a motion later, and perhaps you'd like to sign it, is that we all have a good look, in conversation with municipalities: what is reasonable now? What can you ask of me? What is still child care and what should just be generally normal? And then the final part, Mr Hijink, because before you ask, I fully agree with you that if I have a child with serious problems and there is someone from a district team who is there, then they should be able to decide for themselves what is needed for that now, of course. Can't do that from behind a desk. I'm not a doctor. Besides, I wasn't a civil servant, but okay, except for that. So I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mrs Tielen still has to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	I hear Mr Peters saying that he actually wants some kind of framework within which and outside of which municipalities can or may not take care. But doesn't Mr. Peters agree with me that you can't determine that until you know what the youth aid question is in your congregation and what appropriate solutions are there for that? Mr. Peters calls "horse therapy." I do not think that this is an effective solution, but it is a bit of a question. So I think the question is first: which youth aid questions are actually in a municipality? Does Mr Peters agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	Partly. In any case, I agree with Mrs Tielen that the conclusion is that the volume continues to grow but that we do not know who these children are and what we are doing for them. And that it would be very useful if we all knew what it was. So I absolutely agree with you. We should get a good look at that. I think that research has also been promised and everyone in every municipality will also say that this could be a very useful exercise. Because everyone is actually curious: how can the volume continue to grow? One day, the kids with problems, I hope. Or at least, if that definition is not stretched infinitely, let me call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	I am also curious about the motion that Mr Peters announces, but I think that is one of the questions. And indeed, the effectiveness of the therapies, because whether it is effective or not, is also part of that question, and if you want to repay it. But then we'll go a whole different path, won't we, Mr. Peters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yes. Or not. I'm not a medic. I think we should look at what the definition of youth care is and how far do we take him? It simply cannot be true that we say, on the one hand, that we are very short of money and, on the other hand, that the volume continues to grow while we do not know what it is. And that one in six, seven or eight children needs youth support in the Netherlands, I just don't think. That really is a lot more than where on earth. We should not close our eyes to that and we should be able to have that debate here, especially in the interests of those children who have really big problems. Unfortunately, all that is in the Ombudsman's letter is true, and for these children we simply have too little energy, I fear, and too little resources. I'll continue, Mr. Chairman, if it's all right with you. In the light of the above, how does the Minister see the fact that some municipalities literally contract hundreds of suppliers? Which can be good in itself. I am not saying'more providers are bad', but I am saying that we have to check in advance what they are doing and whether all this is true. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that it is difficult to give some guidance on this as a municipality and that it entails risks if you allow 400 parties selling solutions to look for the problems independently? Mr. Chairman. Even without changes in the Youth Act, each municipality can do a lot by setting limits to what it wants to pay for questions about raising and growing up. Access where it is also selected on a priority basis is necessary. The municipality can talk to the locals about this. If residents want infinite amounts of youth aid, are they prepared to pay more municipal taxes? I predict that most people think youth aid is important, but with sober and clear boundaries. Mr. Chairman. A true optimist does not say that everything is going well, but know that not everything goes wrong. There is much to say about youth care, but there are district teams, agencies and institutions trying to work together, and here and there we are getting better and better at working on integrated family plans, and that is good. That's what needs to be said. But a lot of things aren't going well either. Finally, Mr President. Over a billion euros will be available in the coming years. That's good. But can the Minister indicate how this money will be made available to children with major problems, not to bso-plus, mindfulness or child coaching? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber... Oh, there's another question from Mrs Westerveld. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	I would like to ask Mr Peters whether he himself thinks that sometimes he is playing a bit of a game. I am not talking about the problems that we also see, namely that children are sometimes labeled far too quickly and sometimes diagnosed far too quickly. I also think that we should be very careful with all the commercial providers who are getting better. But if, for example, I read in weblogs and hear here in the Chamber that Mr Peters is pretending that horse therapy is good for dyslexia and municipalities, then I would like to ask him whether he can make some comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	I'll get more of that question. Just so we're clear, I have nothing against all kinds of help. It'll all be really good. I also think horse therapy can really help people. I'm sure the people who work for it with heart and soul are doing a good job too. My question is: is this the aid that municipalities have to pay? That's just a question. I don't think so, and maybe others think so. I do not wish to comment on that. I've checked the websites of a lot of municipalities that state what kind of parties they have a contract with. We have open house funding. It's fine. I understand you want creativity and new parties. I also understand that contracting is incredibly difficult and annoying and that you get a monopoly with a few people. But I'm just gonna check out what kind of companies they are. There's a lot in between that I think: but guys, on the one hand let's just increase the volume and on the other hand go those people really don't sit around waiting for someone to call and see if a customer can come. They're gonna look for themselves, of course. And who's wrong with them? So I'm not playing games. I'm just getting it off websites.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	That was a nice explanation. Again, I'm not denying that. I do think that Mr Peters is stuck in his examples of horse therapy. He also describes on his weblog, for example, a care farm where I went a while ago. It is not true that there are tens or hundreds of children who receive horse therapy that is reimbursed by the municipality. Children who are temporarily unable to attend school receive education in a small setting at a care farm, as we have in several places in the country. That could be very good for kids. That is a very different picture of this place and of places other than the image that Mr Peters sketches. I would therefore ask him to comment on the picture that is being drawn up. Indeed, it is pretending that our aldermen spend tens of thousands of euros on horse therapy for children throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mrs Westerveld also draws my point to an infinite point. I'm not trying to say that every municipality does that and more. I'm saying they contract people who offer this. Again, maybe that's even a good idea. I haven't been there. I'm sure they'll do a wonderful job. I'm just looking at the website. I can see that on the website of the municipality of Amsterdam, which is perhaps very annoying, there are all kinds of help that were never paid by the municipality in the past. So I'm not playing games. All I'm saying is that if we sign all of this and extend the definitions of youth aid, it's going to be expensive. I am also pleased to hear you say that you share that analysis. I share your analysis, by the way. I can also say that you are acting as if all youth aid is very serious psychiatric problems. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mrs Westerveld, rounding off, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	A small point. I also looked at that website of the municipality of Amsterdam. That website doesn't say that all these forms are being reimbursed. It does not say that homework classes are reimbursed by the municipality, but that is what Mr Peters makes of it, and that is what I would like to comment on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	No, that's not true, Mrs Westerveld. It says that if a child has an indication of specialized youth assistance, parents can choose from these providers. All of these parties are involved, and that is what we apparently call "specialised youth aid'. I'm not making that up. Get it off the website of the municipality of Amsterdam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	Fine. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The previous speakers have already shown that youth aid has many variations and, unfortunately, has to help many types of children. That goes from minor traumas to kids thinking suicidal. We have also had a number of examples of this. I also have an example on my paper of Els, who cuts himself and is suicidal, following a terribly out of control divorce. That only indicates the importance of what we are talking about today and that we need to do better. Of course, we have all read the letter from the Children's Ombudswoman, who shows that this help is not by any means the right help, and that children and parents are jammed by bulkheads in systems. A lack of coherence in youth care shows that the transformation of youth aid is far from complete. I myself was very much in favour of this decentralisation, because I firmly believe that it would be better to identify things early and see if we could support them at the beginning of the problems and perhaps even before that, so that the situations do not get any further out of hand. During this decentralisation, we have also talked time and again about the ideal of one child, one family, one plan, but that seems too often to be a utopia. The Children's Ombudswoman proposes to work from an integral educational vision, which puts the child's development importance first and in which the system serves this vision, not the other way around. Does the Minister share the Ombudswoman's vision? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is also pleased that there is now additional money, that billion for the next three years during this cabinet period. That's where our aldermen are, but I think especially the young people, are very happy about it. However, we are not yet in agreement with each other. Fortunately, the Minister also indicated the need for an in-depth investigation. We can speculate on the reasons why this volume growth is 12%, but also from the benchmark some suggestions become clear. However, we still know far too little about the underlying causes. A question about that in-depth investigation. The Minister says it could be a semi-binding opinion if we have that investigation and that committee. What does the Minister mean by a "semi-binding opinion"? On what basis will it ultimately be decided whether structural money will actually be added? Mr. Chairman. We also need to look at the advanced individualisation in our society. How come we make such high demands on our children and our young people? If a child doesn't comply with this, a diagnosis is made quickly. How have we organized society so that so many children need child care? How does the Minister view that? The Youth Act is also about early intervention, targeted education support, the own strength of families. By putting the ball too quickly with the children, you actually apologize to the parents, the school and eventually society. This ultimately leads to more expensive care. It takes guts to break this spiral, because a reference from the general practitioner to the youth ggz is unfortunately often easier than offering parent education support. This may require a longer and more intensive process. The reference to specialized aid may perhaps deny the problems of poverty and fighting divorces, for example. The Youth Act says that municipality and family should start putting group plans in place, but is this happening enough? I'll ask the Minister. It is precisely by looking at the aid demand in a broader way and using cognition from the network that you can better connect with the youth care that is needed. We also need to look at the weave errors in the law. For example, general practitioners and specialised institutions can refer independently of the municipality, while the municipality bears the financial risk and cannot adjust at the same time. Furthermore, I get signals that the threshold from the Youth Act towards the Wlz is very high. As a result, there are municipalities that have lost millions to caring for a small group, while they have no money for the transformation, the movement forward. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the upcoding. The benchmark analysis shows that this is very much the case. If you make the care needs of a client more administratively, the care becomes more expensive because higher care is offered. Does the Minister have any idea how often this occurs and what costs are involved? Does he want to take this with him in the in-depth investigation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	I'm gonna suspend for 15 minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister. I'll suspend until 3:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the many questions that have been asked. I have also listened carefully to the debates that Members had with each other. I can imagine the content of those debates because, of course, they are debates that you have to have at the moment when you have the data on your lap as they are now on your lap. The data come from all the studies that have been carried out, but also, of course, from the observations of the Children's Ombudsman that have led to this debate. They give rise to the reflections of Members. I would like to give the answer as follows. I shall speak first of all about the letter from the Children's Ombudsman and what you said about it. Then there is a block about the finances and the agreements I have made with the municipalities and are still going to make. After that I go into the block of varia on a number of questions that are more difficult to classify. I'll get to the Children's Ombudswoman's letter first. In her letter she describes the signals she is getting, the concerns she is concerned about help and support for vulnerable children. Anyone who has experience with youth care, who has followed the debates in recent times, who has seen the studies, who has seen the mid-term evaluation of the Youth Act, has also been the cause of both this and a debate, and the approach we have then chosen with each other, which will recognise the concerns that the Children's Ombudsman describes. Of course, such signals are not the first time. I believe that Mr Peters said that we would perhaps prefer to say that things are different, but that is the way things are. Of course, they're just legitimate observations of the Children's Ombudswoman's care. I'd like to check them out in a minute. And I am going to say: yes, you can indeed do that observation, but at the same time there is so much else to say about that. Perhaps I should start here with the question that was raised in Mrs Agema's speech. There was actually the reflection: did we really do the right thing about decentralisation? Did we make sense of that? I think it is logical and right that the Chamber, a cabinet and everyone who deals with the political administration of the care should occasionally ask that question. Did we make sense of that? For the answer to that question, I would actually like to go back a little further than 2015, namely the parliamentary investigation into the care for young people that was done at the time. I believe that the only person present at the time was Mr Voordewind. The conclusions of that investigation were not mild. These conclusions were about the way youth care was working at that time. In fact, at that moment, the Chamber came to the following conclusion, which I summarize in my own words, so I paraphrase. In fact, the Chamber concluded: we have organised care for young people so fragmentedly, there are so many different responsibilities, so many different funding flows, that the creation of comprehensive care for children is simply impossible. That was actually the conclusion of the parliamentary committee of inquiry at the time. And so, they said, we will have to work on this decentralisation. That has actually been a fairly broad position for quite a long time, both in implementation practice and in politics. When this decentralisation was designed, and as the time of January 2015 approached more closely, some of the concerns that Mrs Agema expressed were also raised: is this actually going to work, are we really ready for that transition, because it is so big and it is such a huge change that we are dealing with each other? That played before 2015. I think there were actually two "religions" next to each other back then. One was the gloomy text: it's not gonna work out, it's not gonna work out to make that transition work without an accident. Two was: everything will be fine, because we have the transition to the municipalities. I believe that both views have proved to be false in the years that lie ahead. Because we now have that implementation practice, and we also have the mid-term evaluation. We have these observations from the Children's Ombudswoman, who actually sketches the midterm evaluation: the transition, so the transfer to the municipality, has gone quite well. Fortunately, many of the major risks identified by some prior to that transition have not proved to be true, also because everyone has worked incredibly hard. But the other conclusion is also true: you can have a better law, but with that reality is not just better. The reality for children and families and for youth workers is not just better when you change the law, even though the transition that results from it actually goes quite well. The transformation that is intended and the promise, you might say, of the Youth Act, is certainly not yet fulfilled and the road is still very long. That's what the letter from the Ombudswoman testifies to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you for this rather comprehensive analysis of the implementation of the whole Youth Act. But there is a major omission with the Minister, because I have been there since 2006.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	But in the end, I voted against the bill. There is a very logical reason for this, namely that what seems so logical on paper does not have to work in practice. Right before that law, we had this report, which was the "go/no go" moment for the whole Youth Act. A number of things are displayed with infantile traffic lights. Of the 40 criteria on which you can proceed with the law, only 7 were green. And yet it had to go through. What is missing from the Minister's analysis is that this whole transition should be worth EUR 450 million. At about 3 billion, that's a huge sip on a drink. That's what it was, that's why those tough guys Van Rijn and Bitches went on. The tough guys who would have gone through the Youth Act for a while did it because they had a cut-off call. I would very much like this tough guy to solve the matter now, because there are so many children who fall between shore and ship and we have had so many debates, not just about waiting times but especially about children with very serious problems, and nothing really happens. Every time we see these stories, we see them. That's because the system and the transformation have to be pushed down from top to bottom. So what all looks so good on paper doesn't work in practice. Firstly, the budget is too short and secondly, the vision is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'm going in. In the rest of my speech, this observation by Mrs Agema also comes back, because it is partly related to what the Children's Ombudsman writes. A number of Members have asked each other this question. I think that the assumption that it should be possible to rebuild this youth care system for 450 million less in such a short period of time has simply not proved to be true. That's one. At the same time, with the knowledge of today, it is easy to say, because it is just the starting position for which I simply have to take responsibility and for which we have to take responsibility from now on. That means that this has also been the reason why, on the basis of the investigation which showed that the volumes in youth care have increased considerably in the years to come, the cabinet felt it was necessary to add additional money to this. If you then look at the budget that was available in 2015, so say at the start of the transition that cut of from my head about 3.7 billion has been introduced in steps and you look at the state of the budget-2020 and -2021 and -2022, then you are at 4.2 billion. In the meantime, you are almost half a billion higher than the state of the budget at the start of decentralisation. So yes, if you're asking if it was wise to do that cut at the same time at the time, the introduction of the cut went quickly.... is my answer that it just didn't work out that way. But that is precisely the reason why we have to do our job: to face reality and to act accordingly, to say that there must be money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	The knowledge of today is the knowledge of only a few weeks, since we've been researching the volume growth. Only since then has there been a lack of recognition of resources. Before that, the Minister wrote in all his letters that a bag of money was not the solution. But this money thing has been underexposed for so long that the whole sector is now broken. When you talk to people from the sector, especially in the higher regions with the more complex care for children who are seriously ill, you hear that the whole system is broken. There's no tender. Institutions have to apply to dozens of different municipalities in a different way. We're talking waiting lists. The system's completely broken. Now that it has taken so long, since we have had to push for so many years to get any recognition that money had to be arranged, more than there is now, I ask the Minister to have an open mind: how are we going to get this system going? I ask the Minister to keep the option open that this can also mean that decentralisation must be reversed and we must return to a central system. If we go back over this for years, the children at the top, the children who need very complex care, will remain the victims. They are not being helped now, not by a hunting team, not by an action programme, nor by a lack of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	A few elements, first the money. Let's look back at the moments we've talked about it before. I drew your attention to the following. The budgets of the municipalities in the social domain are provided annually through the Iv3 figures. There's a year of looking back in there. Last December 2018 we had the whole year 2017 in view. That just has to do with accountability. In it you saw that the first years after decentralisation there was not a very large budgetary issue in municipalities about the social domain as a whole. Why not? This has to do with the fact that there was more room in the budgets for the Wmo and municipalities could therefore eliminate it from each other. Later on, the ability to streak away from each other has become much smaller. You can actually see that for the first time in Iv3 2018, so about the financial year 2017. In that year you can see that the initial surplus on the social domain turns into an excess of 100 million, I say out of my mind for a moment. That was also the moment when more and more the signals came from the municipalities that they really lacked money. Then we said: we must move from signals to facts. We initially chose the solution of a deficit fund, but we also knew that it was not enough as a structural solution. So we then did the investigation into the signals; from signals to facts. The facts show that there is a volume increase; I will come back to it later. That's what we've got to act on, and that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	I spoke very briefly about the money. That's what I said: take care of it. We have had a debate here for years and years after debate and we have been talking about money. None of that was true. The action programme? We could do all that without a bag of money. Now we know for a few weeks that money is needed, and we also know that more money is needed than is provided for in the Spring paper. But I parked it for a while. About money, I say take care of it. On the other hand, however, I have asked the Minister not to go over it again for years in order to recognise that there is a fundamental problem, especially in the upper regions, in the more specialised and complex youth care. It is then about financing, about institutions, about municipalities that simply do not tender. We have had the debates here, such as children with anorexia problems and suicidal problems. There's a very big problem there. Let us not discuss this issue with each other for many years. Come up with a solution. That solution, which should also be able to be that decentralisation has not worked, at least not for the highly specialised care. That option should also be able to go back to a central system. I asked the Minister to open his eyes and not say for years that there is nothing going on with the system, that it is all a transformation, that it still has to go on and that it still has to land and I know a lot about it. 'Cause these kids are falling apart. We all have a responsibility there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	You have not only seen the money in the letter we wrote in connection with the decision-making in the Spring paper. I'm the first to say that we're not gonna solve it with money alone. We will also have to make a number of substantive choices. Some of you have referred to this. I think it was Mrs Westerveld, but at least it was Mr Raemakers. He has said that, in line with our own observations, the municipality, the local level, is not the ideal level of scale to organise the more complex forms of care. That might be a paraphrase of what you said. I shall come back to this in a little more detail, in response to the questions put by Mr Raemakers and Mrs Westerveld. What I think of that is that you also have to look at the scale level at which you organized the care. Is that a recent paradigm? It is not de facto that it was previously centrally organised. It was previously organised by health insurance companies. Only the youth care plus had central control and the other forms of care did not. I do not believe so much in recent-realisation because I think that all this transition stuff is very energy-intensive and very distracting from what the care should really be about. I do believe that there are a number of new agreements to be made with municipalities. They're all about how we've organized our care now. I believe that the questions and concerns that we have are going to have to deal with them in greater detail in this regard in part with the way in which that care landscape is organized. I believe that the commissioning of the more complex forms of care will have to be organised regionally or perhaps even above regionally. You mention examples of this, such as anorexia care. That is a fair example. In any case, it applies to the most complex form. The most complex form is now in the national transition arrangement arranged by the VNG, but at the moment there is not really a clientship that has the entire chain in mind. It's kind of fragmented. The most heavy forms of care are in the nationwide transition arrangement, but there isn't really anyone who has the whole chain in mind. That indeed breaks up the more complex forms of care. Business with 20, 30, 40, 50 municipalities breaks institutions into administrative burdens. That's what's bothering us. Do you have to reverse the whole decentralisation? I don't think so. We shouldn't do that either because it's a lot of hassle. I do think that you should have a tighter order and therefore be more binding in that regard. That is one of the types of agreements I would like to make with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	The Minister stated that the whole decentralisation ultimately worked out fairly well. In part, I can follow him in this, for example when it comes to the way in which cooperation is now being worked out and you are closer to the young people. I think this has been a good step. Even when you talk to the people who work in youth care, they find that one of the great advantages compared to what it was like before. But there are also a lot of things that have just deteriorated. The bureaucracy has only gotten bigger, caregivers say to us. Accountability has increased tenfold; the Minister himself says so. All these municipalities ask for different responsibilities. One wants performance finance, the other some sort of lump sum financing. They all want something different. We've got tenders. It drives healthcare providers crazy. The Minister himself was just talking about administrative burdens, but the question is how he's going to pull that towards him. How is he going to ensure that we keep the working method small-scale locally, but at the same time put an end to the abundant bureaucracy that has been spilled over youth care in recent years? I think this is the most important question that the youth care workers want to answer at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	Quite rightly; I fully agree with that. If you look at the movement that has been made, I will go into it a little more in detail later, I think you will see that there is also much good to say about the past few years. At the same time, I would really like to stress that next week we will continue to deepen this in the AO programme that the promise of transformation is far from being fulfilled. The promise of the Youth Act in that regard...................................................................................................................................................................... We are really only at the beginning of making that happen. What really stands in the way of achieving this is, in my opinion, that through this transition we have really underestimated the fact that an institution that serves children from 20 to 30 municipalities also faces demands from 20 to 30 municipalities. Is that illogical? No, a municipality is given that responsibility, is going to address that responsibility and is then going to order a provider, with requirements attached to it. That doesn't make any sense. But if there's too much variety in how municipalities do that, if there's too much variety in really avoidable costs and if there's too many municipalities that have contracted 200, 300 or 400 providers that's really going to happen, then you have to say that that's a lot of awkward organizational stuff that we've unintentionally pulled into the system by now and we have to get rid of it. That ballast doesn't help children and costs an incredible amount of money. I think that was Mr Peters' speech. So what we will have to do next to making that money available is to make agreements, including on the organisation of that system. I have just said this in the direction of Mrs Agema, and I shall go a little further in the direction of Mr Raemakers and Mrs Westerveld. We will also have to make agreements on procurement. One of the points I mention in the agreements I intend to make is precisely about purchasing. The open-house tenders, in fact, in order to avoid a European tender, have led to a lot more suppliers. This leads to a lot of market forces. It sounds nice to say that "anyone who can take care of our youth care can come in," but it leads to competition for every family and every client and therefore not to the cooperation that you have in mind. So we really need to get rid of this open house-like tender, which has now become available to local authorities. We really need to get rid of that, because it has caused a huge bureaucracy and also a huge problem in the direction, because as a municipality in contract management you cannot properly steer at 200, 300 or 400 providers. The administrative burden is therefore largely linked to this, for example because, when municipalities feel that they have no grip and no control, bureaucratic solutions are often devised to get that grip and control back, while the horse is being stretched behind the cart. So I think we should get rid of those hundreds of providers. We need to move away from the randomness of the scale at which different forms of care are organised, and we need to make more precise agreements on this. In addition, we are of course very consciously engaged with (Ont) Regulal de Zorg. Soon we will have a large national scrap day on which all youth care regions across the Netherlands will be removed. It must also be said from the inside: what is the top ten of the rules that you run into, where would you like to go tomorrow without that being a point of concern for what you really are, are we going to do so and how are we going to do so? We're gonna have that scraping, too. We are therefore working on all fronts to combat this bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	I always love it when we agree, but Mrs Agema has a point. I don't think you're going to have to go to centralization of the whole child care system. I do not think that will work, in some areas and in a very small part perhaps but not for the big picture. What could be centralised is the way in which municipalities organise youth care, so that the providers know what the system is and how it works. So we are going to draw a line through these calls for tenders and through all those municipalities that dictate to the font how a provider should justify himself. One municipality asks for funding per person, per child, and the other requires funding per performance that a youth aid provider must provide. That's totally unexploited work. I like that the Minister says he agrees, but then the question is: how is he going to do that? Because this means that you are going to restrict the autonomy of the municipalities. So you're going to say to the municipalities: we're going to do this differently, we're going to use fewer rules, we're going to prescribe ourselves now what we think is the best way to organise this. Then my question is: how? Because, as far as I am concerned, the fact that we are in agreement is not enough for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	It's a nice start and it's not very common either. So I think we should emphasise this, I say in the direction of the President. I'm gonna do something with the order of my story. I refer all the time to a question from Mr Raemakers and Mrs Westerveld which I was going to answer, but I am going to take it up now. I'll "borrow" it from my next block. In the last letter I sent to the Chamber, not only did I mention the finances, but I also wrote that we are not going to make it with money alone. So we will also have to make a number of substantive agreements. A substantive limitation of youth aid is more the discussion of Mr Peters. It is about reducing avoidable expenditure and the organisation of the healthcare landscape. Those last two touch the discussion as you call it. I have just said that I think that at the start of decentralisation it has been underestimated that if you take care of the whole of the youth, where in the funding you really achieve the integrality that was the answer to the Court's earlier observations that with all these different funding flows integral care would never come off the ground... Well, integral funding has been achieved at the level of the municipalities. The municipality is the nearest government, so that's where it should take place. These are all logical thoughts in themselves, but there is not enough at the start to realize that if you do that, if you organize the entire youth care at the level of the individual municipality, this also means that you do the number of requirements of institutions times 350. This leads to considerable administrative burdens and also leads to uncertainty at the level at which the system is organised. Mr Raemakers says: I actually find it charming to see if you can get to a top-regional direction on some parts of the care, to top-regional commissioning. I have in the administrative arrangements that I will make, as I have agreed, because that is how you need to see it... These are, in fact, on the main lines of the agreements I have made with the municipalities and which call for further action in the coming months. I have said that there is a need for further action. I'm just saying out loud what I'm thinking right now. I haven't come that far, because I haven't made those appointments with the municipalities yet, but I'll mention what I'm thinking about right now. The first thing I am thinking of is that we need to make precise, good agreements at local level on what can be expected in the second line of everything that is organized at district level. The current versatility of the district teams is problematic in so far that if you want to scale as SafeHome because the route has been completed, the notification has been checked, etc., but you do think that a family needs extra care, you as SafeHome home and we have 26 SafeHome organisations in the Netherlands should know what to expect at the level of the neighborhood, otherwise you don't know how to scale down. In short, we also see in the children's abuse programme that it is necessary to better define what one can expect from neighborhood-oriented care of every municipality. What I would like to do nationally is to define that in every municipality at the level of the municipality. At the level of the region, at least that form of care should be designed, which one might say is in itself second-line care, but which is common second-line care, take care of him. That's what you do at the level of the J42, of the 42 youth care regions. Then you have a level up there and that is actually a more intensive form of care, for example the Youth Care Plus. You could also think of other, more specialised forms of care, which you say: even if you have 42 regions, the scale level is actually too low. We saw that in North Holland, for example. Transferium has suffered from a few regions that do want something and other regions that want something else. The scale level was already not small, but still such a closed youth care institution has to do with an even larger feeding area. So, I would say, you will also have to take care of a number of aspects at a higher regional level. And there are parts of care that are so rare and so specialised, that they just need to be organized nationwide because you can't spread it regionally. I'd like to make that order in those four layers. I'd like to go into that pretty precisely. This does not always have consequences for the contractual situation. It is therefore not the case that the smaller municipalities no longer need a contract, but a governing municipality will be created. That's so important. We now see that institutions dealing with several municipalities are not really aware of this, especially when there are dozens of them and, for example, are in trouble: who am I to deal with these problems, who is watching over my continuity, who is worried about my continuity? We can see that's problematic. We see that the bureaucratic burden of this really just ends up with employees, which should not be necessary. And indeed: I would like to go to that order of care landscape. I'm not just there, because what I'm saying out loud still requires further thought: what is the implication? What does that mean? Does that mean a change in the law? Does it mean a change in a ministerial arrangement? Is this, for example, a ministerial arrangement based on the law that we discussed here a while ago and with which you can enforce municipal cooperation? Is this a ministerial arrangement that fits in with its form or does it require further legislative changes? These are all questions that I do not have an immediate answer to. I think that we have taken an important step together by decentralising youth care, but I would like to invite you to come up with your ideas on that point. Then it might turn out we're closer to each other after all than you'd think in advance. Closer to home is really better. First government responsible is really better. But the system is far from perfect right now. This system too, I would say, is far from perfect. Well, systems don't care. People do that, true, but still we will have to make a number of changes to that system in order to ensure that people working in youth care can simply do their work there and to ensure that we have a clearer organisation of that whole youth care landscape. 'Cause we did make it a little too complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you to the Minister for answering our questions. I think it is good to see what we can do regionally and what we can do above regionally. But I certainly wouldn't rule out the fact that we just have to organize some things really nationally, possibly with the health insurance companies. For example, the Minister's letter of late May states that it is an option to look at a joint commitment of the POH-ggz from the Zvw and the Youth Act. Now I would like to go back to the explanatory memorandum to the Youth Act, because I found a very interesting sentence on page 44.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	This is the lawyer speaking!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	For the gourmets and the lawyers. It says that the government, in consultation with ZN, Zorgverzekerings Nederland, and the VNG, the municipalities, are exploring the possibilities of purchasing specialist youth ggz under mandate by health insurance companies. I have not found that anything has ever been done with what has been agreed in the explanatory statement on the possible role of health insurers. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can take this explicitly with him throughout the whole story. Can he take a closer look at this: what did we then agree to in the Youth Act and are there opportunities to involve health insurers more in cooperation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	I think so. As a good lawyer, of course, you also read my last letter. In this I outline the broad lines of the agreements I intend to make with the municipalities. One of the agreements in between is precisely this. It is true that this passage from the explanatory memorandum has not done much in recent years, except at an individual level between a municipality and a health insurer, but not at a system level. Now we see that at least a number of municipalities tell us that they find it difficult to control access to the youth ggz, because the referral via the general practitioner is very easy and very fast. That's what some municipalities say. Other municipalities say: that's what we thought at first, but after that we made good agreements with our general practitioners and now it's actually fine. I am saying that, and I think that you are also saying that you should not want to close the general practitioner's route, because that is a very important route. It's kind of nice when that GP refers to contracted care, not to uncontracted care. That's one, otherwise you can't send it anymore. It's also a good idea if that doctor doesn't just push anyone who comes into a waiting room, but has a good conversation with it and, as it's called, uses a triage on the front. And that's exactly what the POH-ggz does. There are actually two models that seem to be working. I also hope that they will return to the action research we are doing on your assignment. These models are: strengthen access via a POH-ggz and the youth-ggz in the neighbourhood teams. Both variants occur and both appear to work. So we're not gonna say to municipalities, you either have to do this or that. What we do do is to municipalities that choose those POH-ggz questions: couldn't you do that together with the health insurance companies? In fact, health insurers have often put this POH-ggz in the family doctor's office for the ggz problem in adults. For the youth you might have such a person.. maybe it is also the same person at that GP.... could do the same work, but on order of the municipality. It is not easy for municipalities to make good agreements with health insurers. We have therefore agreed that we will have this conversation with municipalities and health insurance companies to see if this POH-ggz can be financed jointly. I think that there are very good practical arrangements to be made about this and that you are getting out of it. This also caters to another observation of municipalities, namely: much of our money does not actually go to children, but to parents, because we have a lot of parents to accompany in their education. Parents with ggz problems are, of course, ultimately the responsibility of health insurers. They're in the adult ggz. That's what the health insurance companies are for. In short, there too, you should be looking for more cooperation. Especially at the ggz, just at that intersection, municipalities and health insurance companies have a lot to do with each other. So we can make even more practical arrangements, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	I understand the Minister's answer. That is also very clear in the Minister's letter of 27 May. This concerns the joint commitment of the POH-ggz. But then finally that triage was done, by the POH or by the general practitioner and it was said: this person has anorexia, or may have a psychosis, so he must have youth-ggz. This specialist care must then be bought in. Several speakers have also mentioned this. I haven't read that back in the Minister's letter. Can he in that trajectory, for example, if it's really about a young person who gets a psychosis, see if he's in good hands with every small municipality? You can organize it regionally or above regionally. The health insurance companies have the expertise, because they also purchase the adult ggz. Could you not then see what you can do in cooperation between regions and health insurance companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	Most ggz is not high-specialist at all. I would like to underline that. But in the case of high-specialist ggz, of course, even now, university or academic anorexia care, for example, is simply a national arrangement. So that's what national agreements are about. That was not invested in every individual municipality. The point is that there is no direction on the chain as a whole. So we have to invest the direction on the chain as a whole, nationally, at the VNG, we are also very willing to do so, as well as above-regionally. You actually want to organize that chain as a whole in a good way, from light to heavy. What are you doing nationwide? What are you doing on top regional? What do you do regionally and what do you do locally? I think that, not only in the case of anorexia care, but in the case of a number of specialised forms of care, we should do much better. I'm not there yet. I said that in the direction of Mr Hijink, but it is actually an answer to your question. It is the direction of the agreements I would like to make with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	I am sincerely pleased with the Minister's words, that he says there is movement in it. At the same time, we also know, and we can also see, that there are a lot of young people on waiting lists now who need help, because it may be too late for them too. I'm gonna ask the Minister if he can tell us a little bit more about this trajectory. But I would also like to make it clear to him that there is a need for urgent action. We really need to ensure that aid is provided in the very short term, including for young people who are now waiting for help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	Systemic interventions are not really a short-term solution. That's why we agreed that every region has an expert team. It worked. We have also said that this expert team must work well enough everywhere. The inspection will monitor this, but we will also support this through the Youth Care Support Team. Someone has been appointed to see how you deal with complicated cases, for example, where the offer is not immediately available and should actually be created. We have an expert team in every region that can give and formulate this type of answer, and build up the pressure for it. In addition, we have agreed in every region that there should be a social map: what is available here in the region? It's not finished yet, it's in preparation. The progress report before next week's general consultation shows the latest state of play of all these types of agreements. I think that helps you in the overview: how is that organized, what steps are we taking there, not just for the longer term? Those system interventions that we have just discussed are actually only going to provide a solution for the longer term. What do we do now for the shorter term? I would like to mention one more element. We have those expert teams that are working better and better. That's a bit variable, I must say, but they're getting better and better. We'll add something to that, at the request of the parent and client organisations. Because the perseverance that we have now organized through those expert teams for professionals, we don't really have enough if parents are in their hair and say: my child is on the waiting list, but I don't really know where to go. With these parent and client organizations, we're looking at how we could also make those expert teams work for the parents. That is not before the summer, it is only after the summer, but that is also an element.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	I am not asking how we have arranged it now, but I am asking what we are going to do now to ensure that there is help for those few hundred young people who now need help. That is a very different question than the question of how we have dealt with it now and what about the expert teams. Because I know we have expert teams. I also know from practice that this does not work well in every region. Mr. Chairman. If a parent puts a cry for help on Facebook and that gets big, then help can also be arranged for that youngster. We can see that. I really don't want us to encourage parents to do that massively. I really want us to look at what we can do now to make sure that young people who may not be there in a few months can get that help. I would ask the Minister to take a serious look at this and ensure that we find a solution for all those young people. We should not just look for this in the system, in expert teams and in the Chamber in the long term. Because that's not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	With all due respect: I think it was the answer to the question. The question was: how can we provide young people who cannot now receive the appropriate aid in the shortest possible time? I don't know where you got the number of those few hundred. It could be. I think there might be more who are not getting the right help at the moment. We don't know. There is also no central registration of it. There's nothing to do with that either. You can't keep up with that either. What you do know is that each municipality has an individual responsibility for this. We have seen that this individual responsibility of individual municipalities is quite difficult to fulfil. We have also seen that this can lead to powerlessness among individual professionals, who do see that there is a need for referring professionals, such as those who have POH-ggz, but do not have the offer available or are not familiar with the offer that is needed. That is why we have said that there must be an expert team in every region that can do that. Of course, that'll take a while before that's up and running. Well, that's up and running now. That then takes a while before it has the quality that it should have everywhere. That's why we strongly support that. But that is the answer to your question: how can you help the fastest possible children who are currently saying that at least the referring professionals are not yet getting the help they need? So that's how you do it, that's by making those expert teams function as well as possible. By the way, I get quite a few messages when it comes to casuism, sometimes indeed via social media and other channels but sometimes also via the mailbox. You'll get them, too. We now have a unit of casework at VWS that will then come up with a solution with the support team Care for the youth and with the expert teams in the region. If you are getting into cases that you really think should be solved, then it is always good to use our infrastructure to do so. I do so myself for a number of reasons. First of all, because it helps to get help as quickly as possible. Secondly, to test whether these expert teams are working well enough by now. I see they're gonna function better, but we're not there yet. This is the best way to offer solutions in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	I've already heard Mr. Hijink in this interrupting round, but let's go, we're in a good mood, at least if you can keep it short and pointy. After that, I hope that we can move a little towards the conclusion of the government's deadline. I'm just expressing hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	Hope is nice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	It can be very short, I hope. The question is what exactly the Minister has promised. With regard to the way in which public procurement is carried out and the way in which municipalities organise and buy care and the responsibility that healthcare providers have to provide to the municipalities, does he intend to go along with this, so as to make uniform agreements on this subject so that both municipalities and healthcare providers will soon know: this is the model on which we offer youth care and youth assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	I'm not gonna repeat myself. So the story I just kept, let me give you a minute. I just have to come back to that, because I have these appointments in the making. Then it's about a tighter order of the youth care landscape. That's what I've been working on. I think I'll come back to it just after the summer in the direction of your Chamber about exactly what that means. As far as the administrative burden is concerned, the part of the responsibility that we can actually enforce from here, you have adopted a beautiful law here. That arrangement is in force or is about to enter into force, I thought on July 1st. From that moment on, we can indeed enforce clear administrative procedures. There is also a whole process of guidance from the VNG to help the municipalities to comply with it. This helps something, but not everything, because the order is also a source of all kinds of accountability that underpins it. Your third question concerns procurement. The European public procurement law, however understandable it may be when it comes to economic operators who have to get a fair share from the public grape and therefore have to be able to participate in public procurement, seems to me to be clashing in the social domain with values that are actually more important there than promoting competition and a level playing field. Indeed, the right to tender can also hinder cooperation because it does not take past experience with it, which is very important for the partnership and the alliance that you want there. So what I would like to go to is that within these European procurement rules we can make an exception for that social domain. However, the European procurement rules are laid down in a directive under which the Dutch Procurement Act was made. You didn't just change that. I'm working on it. Just last week, together with my colleague Mona Keijzer, I was with Commissioner Bienkowska to present this issue. It was a good conversation, but then you will not be there immediately, because the amendment of a directive will take some time anyway. In addition, the explanation given by the Netherlands that there is no cross-border interest in healthcare and that therefore the European Procurement Directive does not have to apply to the social domain, especially ours. I have not yet been able to explain this to the Commission. So there's still some work to be done. We have invited the Commission to come to the Netherlands soon and then we will discuss it again. That's the European track I'm running. Meanwhile, we need to make sure that we help municipalities to spend better. Open house doesn't have to. You can't just do that. It is much better not to do that. So I actually want to make that appointment with the municipalities: "Just don't do it anymore. No one has to do it, so just don't do it anymore." For most forms of care, it is an extremely inappropriate means of obtaining a contract. Then tender things for example for one year. Putting contracts on the market for one or two years, or putting them on the market for three years... Well, three years can still be done, but one or two years is unwise, because then you have to go through that tender circus every two or three years. This is also an enormous administrative burden for institutions. No one's gonna have to. So you can't just do that. Then there are procurement provisions, i.e. model procurement provisions, for example when it comes to the question of the solvency of institutions. You can do that in 80 different variants. You can just choose one way to do it. So that's a good example we'd like to roll out nationwide. So what I'm actually doing when it comes to contracting is going through two tracks. One. Ensure space within European procurement law, so that the social domain no longer has to meet all the obligations of European procurement law. But I'm not there yet. And in the meantime, what I'm doing is helping municipalities to do those invitations to tender as best they can. With that sum, I try to relieve the burden of contracting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	I am particularly concerned about that last point. I mentioned the example of Heerlen. That's where a corporation works. It is a partnership of seven youth care providers, who simply, in good consultation, by working well together, arrange youth care for the entire municipality. I believe that this is a model that works, but in this case it has succeeded despite the contracting process. And it may not be possible to do it that way next time. So I would like to ask the Minister if he would like to talk to the municipalities about what is the best way to do this now. How are we going to enforce this cooperation everywhere? Because there are still far too many municipalities in which providers simply fight each other out. That's about the back of the young people who need care. So I think the Minister should take a step forward and say, "This is a good model. This is a way to enforce cooperation between youth care providers. This is the way we're gonna do it." This also means that we can avoid going again for the performance-oriented procurement of youth care, which I do not believe in at all and which, in my opinion, is really disastrous, especially for the young people who need it so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	I do not agree with you on that last point, because result financing is not actually a performance financing.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then about Heerlen. Look, no coincidence is the mayor of Heerlen of course Emile Roemer.. his name be praised and praised. I also know the alderman of Heerlen, Jordy Clemens. I already worked with them in Rotterdam. He's an incredibly good alderman. Especially on the theme of domestic violence and child abuse, he does very good things. Also on the theme of how to connect perinatal care to youth care he does very good things. So I do know about Heerlen. But how exactly they have their contract for each other, I don't know about Heerlen. But I'm definitely gonna light my light up there. Especially if you're excited about that, I'd like to make that enthusiasm mine. Dan: "But that's how you have to do it now as a municipality." That depends. If it is really a lot better than the other, for example stepping down from open-house procurement, then I dare say that we should be more instructive towards municipalities. But saying 'that's how you should do it', if one or the other can actually do both and the choice really is due to municipal policy freedom, doesn't strike me as wise. For there is a reason that we have chosen that first government as the government that is first responsible for caring for the youth. The reason is that the first government is best able to oversee the total of that municipality, and also sees with what association life there is to work with. So he also sees the opportunities, for example between the cooperation of education and care. On the contrary, I would not want to deprive the municipalities of that possibility. So one size fits all shouldn't be. But to avoid unwise things happening, we must want to do so. And somewhere there will be a balance. No dogmatic hassle of: you can't find anything about what belongs within municipal policy freedom. I don't like that at all, because autonomy, so you make the law... Well, no one's making the laws of their own. I don't have much with that. But with freedom to do sensible things, I do have a lot of things. I think we need to find a balance somewhere in between. I come at the end of this week with the progress report on the Youth Care Programme. What struck me at the last time we discussed this at the table is that there has never been a period when the national government has been so decisive in interfering with youth care as it was during this period. There's so much going on within that Youth Care programme, there's projects, actions and opportunities for cooperation that I don't think there's ever been this close from the national government, even though youth care is decentralised to the municipalities. Perhaps you will do another observation when you read the piece, but I think you will also find that this is very close to reality. Mr. Chairman. There was once a brilliant classification of my answer, but then I let myself be seduced. I don't remember who; I think by Mrs Agema or Mr Hijink to amend my own classification and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	And then it went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	That's when it went completely wrong. So you see, if you go with the opposition too much, sooner or later you'll regret it. That's my conclusion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	Can you do the rest short and pointy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	I'm gonna try. I was working on the cube about the Kinderombudsman, I was just about to say, yes, I recognize the observations. At the same time, I think it's wrong for you to do nothing but observe concerns. Of course, I also see that the integrality is not perfect everywhere, but at the same time I see that the integrality of care has never been as great as it is now. We never had a POH-youth-ggz. We never had youth ggz in the neighborhood teams. We have never had Ggz who, together with the closed youth care services, comes up with a new approach in which closed youth care is continued at home via MST. We've never had these partnerships, this integrality. That is why I would like to say: keep talking about youth care with two words. That's what I say to myself when I'm sad. Yes, incredibly much still needs to be done to deliver on the promise of decentralisation. And yes, it may also require system interventions. But let's not pretend that things aren't very beautiful. There are, because that is also true. It's both true, so we have to want to say both things to each other. Then I'll go to the second block. I'm just going to answer the questions I haven't answered. I shall start with Mr Voordewind's question, simply because it is now before us, not because it was the order. He asked: in the agreements on that money, on the structural side of it, it says "semi-binding," but what does the Minister mean by that? We have seen together that in the first year we would like to align as much as possible with the experienced volume growth of 12.1%. Of course, there is something to be said about this, because it is true that the registration falls entirely in 2015, as the researchers themselves say, but we have not done so. We have said: in the first year we have to compensate for volume growth. That 12.1% corresponds to 400 million, adding up the volume growth compensation of the last few years, of 59 million. That's the same thing. We also said that we are not going to do that next year and the following year. Why? The amount, the volume growth we have seen in recent years, is quite in line with the objectives of the Youth Act. You are there before and have families in the picture; that is the bow wave that many have predicted. But in some municipalities, you can see that 18% of the children are in child care. That's a lot. In what situation could that be a normal percentage? I shall come to Mr Peters' questions in a moment. About 10% of children in child care is already very much, even if you look at it internationally. Should we want to facilitate with each other that we have 18% of children in child care? I don't think so. I don't think that's a sensible move. So municipalities also have a lot to do. The experience with municipalities is that they spend a lot more money than they had, but the experience with many large youth care institutions is that that money is not spent on them, so what does that money go on? There's also a lot of money leaking into the system. We just talked about that. In short, we have to look very closely at where the money is. I want to do the research on that point in a number of steps. The first part of that research should be a kind of follow-the-Money-like study, such as the follow-the-Money research into dyslexia care, for example. I want to know exactly where that money is. I agree with Mrs Tielen that the answer to this question was unsatisfactory. We will discuss this in greater detail next week. Yes, I do see a volume growth of 12.1%, but who they are and what type of care they have received, we do not know. I find that unsatisfactory. Many municipalities themselves find that also unsatisfactory. Your colleagues in many municipal councils also find this unsatisfactory, because we do not know that at municipal level either. I would therefore like to go into depth at the level of a number of regions. That's the first thing I want to do. A spade deeper. I want Follow the Money-like investigation just to know what the money is being spent on right now. Then I'll get to the second thing I want to do. If we come to those agreements that we have just talked about in broad terms and we also have that extra money, can we say on that basis how much is then structurally needed? This was the main dispute with the municipalities. Municipalities simply wanted to be met in a structural way for the increased expenditure on youth care. I have said that I do not think that this is justified, on the basis of the research we have now. I'm still in favour of that. Because we don't know exactly what that money is about. If the money goes to a lot of organizational stuff, which is partly my observation and also that of a lot of municipalities, then I do not think it is right that we should make money available for it at that level. Anything else could be true. Suppose we have answered all these painful questions, and then it turns out that this money is really needed to comply with the obligation to provide care for young people. We must then make structural provision for this in the direction of municipalities. This decentralisation must not, of course, lead to a reduction in other municipal expenditure. In short, we are now adding money for three years: 420 million now, 300 million next year and 300 the following year. We will ensure that the investigation is completed before the next cabinet period, so that structural money can be settled in the formation. What does that mean, semi-binding? Of course, we're going to weigh up the results of that investigation. That requires an administrative weighting first. Does it meet the volume growth we're seeing? And do municipalities themselves do the best they can to ensure that they themselves steer properly and manage properly the direction that is necessary and appropriate to the legal assignment? If that is the case, the cabinet will at that time make the choice to plan the amount x in the budget. That's what we promised. If at that time there is discussion about that possibility, you should not completely rule it out. Then we appoint a committee of wise men. That's what we agreed with the congregations. Are we going to accept the advice of the Committee of Wise Men one-on-one? Well, of course, as a politician, you always keep your own weighting. Yeah, it's very heavy, semi-binding, and it's an arbitration-like investigation. That word is also in it. If you together appoint a committee of wise men to make the decision, then you must take it seriously, but in the end you must also be able to make an administrative weighting. Do we therefore believe that municipalities themselves have actually done everything in their power? This is how you interpret these words. Then the upcoding. That's what's happening. I don't know how much it occurs, but I hope to get a little more insight and grip on it with that Follow the Money-like investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	In conclusion. Suppose that investigation is at the end of next year and that a dispute committee, because there is a dispute with the VNG, comes with an opinion. Then at the end of next year we can expect a sum that we want to pay structuralally for youth care. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	Prior to the Spring Note 2021: in that Spring Note you need to be able to plot the money before 2022 and beyond. Therefore, prior to the Spring paper, decision-making must take place. You shouldn't completely rule out that that will coincide with the formation at that time. That's where the money will be transferred in structuralally. The investigation must therefore be completed before that date. That Follow the Money-like part I want earlier, because it can help to sharpen municipalities. If I follow the schedule, I think we can move the research assignment somewhere around the summer. The study will then take place in the second half of the year. I hope to have it under the Christmas tree so that we can see at that moment what it says about tightening up the management that municipalities themselves do. Of course, they can just work with that. By the way, they don't have to wait for that investigation. They can get to work even now to get a little sharper on the goat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	I very much agree with the way the Minister intends to fly this. At the same time, it raises a lot of questions for me. The minister says he'll have a research question ready by the summer. I think back to the reports on those three investigations that we received in April. They were just downright disappointing. I would actually like the Chamber to take a look at the research questions that are being asked. This research is being hung a lot. We are already going to make decisions about this period of government. I hear the Minister say that between the lines. So those research questions should just be very good. Can the Minister promise that we can take part in this decision? Besides, I just don't understand that there isn't any more knowledge on the table. The minister said if municipalities want to get to work themselves, then please. Well, I'd love to. Maybe there's a lot more. Is the Minister not familiar with knowledge available somewhere that we can build on? Or should we start again to understand the need for help, the population, trends, developments and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	Two things. Firstly, it is of course the Chamber that will then have to act on the investigation. So if you want to look into the research assignment, that's always good. I would then like to choose a form in which this will lead to as little delay as possible. That's one. That might be possible if you start thinking about what you would like to have in a research assignment. We will have a general discussion next week, and that is, I think, a good opportunity to deepen this. Two is that, as far as I'm concerned, you should consider the investigation as some kind of two-stage missile. The first is that Follow the Money-like research to just know more about where that money is. How is it that municipalities feel that they spend hundreds of millions more and that institutions feel that they see a much higher percentage in their budget than the 15% that the Empire would have cut? I am still surprised that this discrepancy has not emerged from the investigation or from the investigation that has been carried out. So in that sense too, I do recognize your disappointment. That is what I want to know, because if we continue to conjecture about this, and if we all continue to let go of our own ideas, then we will not be able to have that conversation with the municipalities well enough and not on the edge that is needed. The municipalities themselves cannot do that with their municipal councils. So we do it in two steps: first that Follow the Money research and in the second step the research that is meant to be able to book a sufficient budget in structural terms towards a next cabinet period. That's the deal that was made with the municipalities. Then you're surprised: we know a lot, don't we? Frankly, I think that at the start of decentralisation it was also thought that we should not regulate it completely by the burden of accountability, accountability and registration requirements. For example, it was thought that we should not record separately how much ggz, how much youth and education aid and how much Ivb care there is. I think that this was done for a good reason, because it was felt that new forms of care could also arise that went beyond the traditional domains of ggz and youth care. So we're not going to register that separately, but it's complicated now, because you and I want to know how much of that 12.1% is actually youth-ggz and what type of youth-ggz that actually is. I am afraid that we will have to say to each other: we actually know much less than we might know. To start thinking about the new burden of accountability again is something that we have to be very careful about, because we know who will be burdened with accountability. They come down to individual employees. In short, we are going to do that research, but in such a way that individual employees are not affected by it. And yes, I would like to know a great deal more about the system as a whole, because it helps me to fulfil the system's responsibility. But I'm gonna think about what then and how then, because I don't want it to lead to new administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	I very much agree with the Minister, but at the same time I also hear the Minister pointing out the dilemma that we will continue to create confusion between very heavy, highly specialised care and simple questions of education. So we'll somehow clustering...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	...to find it. The only clustering that exists now is based on healthcare...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	... instead of the question of care. I believe that we recognise each other and we will have to come back to that next week and in the debates afterwards. It's about next week. The Minister says, "Well, come on through." Very well, but would the Minister please clarify his roadmap for next week, or rather "the process" about those investigations? That doesn't have to be a long letter, but then we know when we need to be alert or provide input. I'd like to use that moment next week to go a little deeper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	I'm blinking at the civil servant's lodge because I think we can do this. I see them nodding there, so it's possible. There's a letter in the pen of, I think, 30 pages, because I have a lot to tell you. In addition, there will be a progress report on what is happening under the Care for Youth programme. In short, make some space this weekend, because there's a thick piece of paper coming up. Can we add this? I think we can add this, because it's actually about what I'm describing to you now. But I understand you'd like to see that for yourself. So I think we can fit a sleeve to that. Let's do it! Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union has asked a question about the Wlz and the Wlz criteria. I believe that Mr Voordewind mentioned the word 'weaving error' in this connection. I wouldn't go that far. I sometimes hear congregations grumbling about it. But I see above all that it says CIZ: hey, one municipality poundes on our door much more often with Wlz clients than the other municipality, and one municipality has a lot more rejections of the Wlz request than the other municipality. So it seems that some municipalities rely very quickly on the Wlz to take over the work. The Wlz indication count is of course quite tight and strict. It's about lifelong and life-wide 24 hours of guidance and care. Those are the access criteria for the Wlz. That is not always to be assessed in advance, certainly not the lifelong one. Very often young children are, of course, still in development. If municipalities send potential Wlz clients to the CIZ too early for an indication, this indeed leads to a locker-to-the-wall experience. So I've agreed with the CIZ: if you see that happen at a municipality, talk to that municipality. In that case, the access of that municipality should simply be better informed of what is actually the CIZ's indicative protocol. So I would not call that a loom error in advance, certainly not. I think this was all of the Christian Union in this block. Then I come to Mrs Westerveld's question. In that letter I put the development of the accres. How does an accessory work? An accres breathes on the expenses of the Empire. If the Empire spends more, if Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen builds more roads or if Mr Bijleveld buys more tanks, this leads to higher spending by the Empire and thus higher spending on the municipality side, and vice versa. So it's kick-up and kick-off. That's the deal we made with the municipalities. But because the Empire spends a lot more in this cabinet period, an 'expansive budget', as the Minister of Finance puts it, very subtly, we see that actresses are also rising. In addition, we have a broadening of the basis to calculate these accreses. Where that leads to adjustments, that may have to do with two things. Accres development includes wage and price compensation. There is also a "participant" of municipalities with more expenditure; so more roads, more tanks. It is therefore both wage and price compensation and compensation based on the volume of expenditure. You can see these two developments coming back in the accres. I've tried to display that in that state as best I can. That also means that you evaluate that every year in the meicircular. The total plus in 2022 compared to the start of the cabinet period is, I remember, still around 5 billion. But there is an annual view of how much space there is. Grosso mode is about half of this wage and price compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	Today is also the congress of the VNG. I understand from several aldermen that at least there have been motions on how youth aid is going. I also hear that the extra contribution of the cabinet and the reduced income which reduces the accres almost cancel each other out, and that municipalities therefore have virtually nothing to gain from it, at least for the coming year. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether this is true. This is a concrete signal that I get back from local drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	It is true that every year the accres development is determined again. This is mainly due to the fact that wage and price compensation was estimated for the whole period at the beginning of the cabinet period. That has been an estimate of what the wage and price compensation would look like. How's it estimated? This is done on the basis of the expected wage and price developments in the market. This market development needs to be monitored in the public sector. That is why the agreement has always been made that this indexation takes place on the basis of developments in the market; I thought that the CPI index would be used for this purpose. This leads to an annual projection of accres development for the following year. Wage and price developments are important. It fluctuates, of course, because wages in the market are not always predicted years in advance. Wage and price developments are therefore fluctuating. And yes, indeed, if you look at what the accres look like now, you can see that it is slightly lower than at the start of the cabinet period was supposed to be. But in 2022, we're still at about 5 billion. When there is less expenditure, for example because there is longer work on building a road or purchasing equipment from the Defence Department, and this leads to underutilisation on the part of the Empire, this indeed has effects on the local authorities. But this really is the standing system; it has always been so. If that expenditure is then done in the following year, you will get them on top of it. Expenditure can therefore indeed fluctuate. We also discussed with the congregations whether they would like to meet with something relevant in it. The municipalities said: not necessarily, we can actually live with the file system. So this has been the subject of discussion with the municipalities. They have opted for a serious contribution to their problem in the field of youth care. That the accres development fluctuates, they understand, although they find it annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	I know that spending is fluctuating and that the system is this way, I know. It is nice that the Minister explains that again, but this system is of course well known here. But my question is whether it is true that there is now an under-utilisation and that the effects of the extra expenditure of the cabinet will be net. Because, of course, municipalities get some sort of lump sum, with which they have to pay everything. Is it true that the few hundred million extra for youth aid and the falling expenditure are mutually exclusive, and there is nothing, net, under the line, really left at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	That last one's not right. It is true that two developments have led to a lower acceleration in this meicircular. One is the wage and price trend that has just been updated. The second is a development in expenditure, where there is under-utilization on the part of the Empire, which finds its translation into the meicircular. So there's been a negative adjustment. I just don't have the amount that fits in. It is also more of a dispute that should be conducted with the Minister for the Interior. But of course it is an effect that the lectures feel; it is. That is precisely why we have had discussions with the VNG about whether we should do something mitigating. Because under-utilisation on the part of the Empire, which leads to lower accresation, is likely to lead to more expenditure in the following year. So you have a higher accres development. Of course, we can use it. The UNG has said that this is technically all very complicated and that it does not necessarily have to. Most of the negative adjustment is wage and price developments. But if there is no wage and price development, you don't have to be compensated for that either. So there is no additional expenditure. Yes, it can be set lower, but then you can see that in the wage and price developments for which municipalities stand at the bar. So you can't spend any other money on that either, I'm just saying. So I think the fluctuation can be annoying. I remember that from my time as an alderman. It always means looking back at your budget in the middle of the year. However, it has been the subject of discussion with the municipalities and that has not led to a desire to adapt that accressystematiek.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	Very good. Can we get to the second term of the Chamber yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'm gonna have a quick browse, Mr. Chairman. I still have the cube with varia anyway. There are four questions in there, I know. A number of groups have raised the question of how the money ends up in the right place. I think that with everything we have said about the investigation, I have already answered this question to a large extent. Furthermore, I have a great faith in your colleagues in the municipal councils. Then there's the question about the national expertise team. It could be a variant of above-regional or national organisation of the most specialised forms of youth care, I say to Mrs Westerveld. It could be a possible version variant and is not off the radar with me. Whether this is going to be real will also depend a little on the conversation I have with municipalities and with the youth aid sector in the coming period. Then normalize the demand for youth aid. Mr Peters has said a great deal about this, as has Mrs Tielen. One of the agreements I made with the municipalities is that we are going to discuss this again. For could it not be that we interpret the duty of youth aid very widely? I think that's true. But the duty of youth aid in the law has been deliberately extended. Why? In order to be able to say by regulation at municipal level: we choose to do so within the youth obligation. The choice made by the municipalities is, of course, the choice made by the municipalities. In short, I think that we should have that conversation again in all its sharpness. But whether it should lead to a new law or to an amendment of the law on this point, I do not know yet. I haven't gotten there yet, because you don't want to unintentionally make things impossible that you say: if municipalities want to choose, then can't they? This is without prejudice to any other debate, namely on what we normally find to be raised. If a municipality has 18% of the children in child care, then I think: that municipality really needs to talk to itself or not about every education question that you might have with a youth care answer is answered there. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	We're really gonna finish it short and pointy. A short and pointy question, Mr. Peters, and then a short and pointy answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm usually short and pointy. My question to the Minister via the chairman is as follows. If you offer 18% youth aid and something goes wrong there, everyone understands that. When I call a municipality about that, they answer: yes, but the Youth Act actually states that I have to pay for almost everything. Well, I understand that you say that you can interpret it widely and make your own choices, but municipalities don't see it that way. Wouldn't it help if you gave them a front seat on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	In any case, what is helpful is that, on the basis of your encouragement, I start talking about this with the municipalities. We now have in the agreements with the municipalities that we are going to have this conversation: what are the limits of the youth aid obligation? With regard to the outcome of that discussion, I wonder whether this is a legislative amendment or whether it should be a regulation amendment? I honestly think the last one is more appropriate and better than the first one. Pointy, isn't it? Yeah, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	You'll learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	20 million for the Youth Authority, is that enough? I've promised Mrs. Kuik before... I think that was in our debate about child care abuses a week and a half ago. Indeed, we see that a number of institutions are financially well underwater, leading to continuity issues. That is not always a bad thing, because institutions are not the purpose of the Youth Act. Helping children well is the purpose of the Youth Act. So there's probably going to be an institution going bankrupt sometime. But it may also be that an institution has liquidity problems, an institution that we really need, a kind of system banks in youth care; that can also be done. Then, of course, you have to make sure that you know it early so that you can intervene properly and that you contact the responsible municipality to get on your feet to ensure the continuity of care. This may require the Youth Authority, with the toolbox that the Youth Authority has and should continue to fill in in the coming period, to make a financial contribution to liquidity. But that can't be a gift. We shouldn't do that, so we need to make a loan out of that. We have said: if we give you a pot of money, 20 million, and occasionally make a contribution that will of course come back, that would be a good idea. We have estimated that 20 million is a long way to go. The 20 million will therefore be used for institutions that are viable on their own, that are simply needed and that have such liquidity problems that you have to help them quickly, but that money will come back. It's going to be a kind of revulving fund; that's what it's meant to be. It is one of the instruments in the Youth Authority's box. I have promised Mrs Kuik that I will continue to work on this instrument, which is already in place and is being developed in the near future, and to let the Chamber know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	20 million is a lot of money, I think. I didn't get out of the letter that it's going to be some kind of loan, but I understand that now from the Minister. My question was: why are we only doing this in 2019? In 2020 and 2021, that amount is not available. Especially if it's revolver and if it's all coming back, you might actually be able to extend that provision to 2020 and 2021 by now. Then why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	If it's revolver, you'll have that fund again next year, again next year and again next year. That's what it's supposed to be. Again, I don't know if 20 is a good estimate either. I don't think it's very much. Large institutions often involve 2, 3, 4, 5 million in liquidity problems. So this is not a very large provision, I actually think, of the total of 4.2 billion for the youth care sector in 2021. What we're doing is we're gonna get a start on this and then we're gonna see how that's gonna work. But if you say that an institution has liquidity problems and that you're voting 2 million, 3 million from that 20, then of course you're spreading it. Then they can pay it back in the years to come. So you don't have it back by January 1st, because if it was that easy, they probably wouldn't have had any liquidity problems. In short, you're doing this as a temporary aid construction. Exactly how it's gonna work is what we're working on right now. We are also working on the regulation at the moment, but we would like to start with this for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	Can we make an agreement with the Minister on when we are kept informed of how that fund works? I also took the financial table. We also have the Transformation Fund for Municipalities. That's also about 18 million a year. That's what it says in 2018, 2019 and 2020. For example, it falls away in 2021. So if we do not get 20 million on the one, we could, for example, use it with the Transformation Fund when it comes to that real change in youth care. I am a little looking for the answer to the question of how we can ensure that all these money jars are actually used and when we are informed as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	I get that. I'm not so afraid of underspending this money. In fact, you sometimes have that in the budget, but it happens that I am never so afraid of this part of the budget that I will not lose the money. I'll inform the Chamber when we've completed that arrangement. It'll be somewhere just after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	Fine. We're here, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	Except for four more questions. The block of varia, chairman; you were just there and here we are. To decide together; that was a motion from Mrs Tielen. Making a decision together is actually important in the whole of care. This really requires a cultural change, which you need very much in youth care, but which you also see happening. At the same time, we're not there yet. There is a directive, so you could say that we have done quite well on paper. That is the directive, together with parents and young people, deciding on appropriate aid. This means that you have to have that directive as a youth care professional on your retina, you still have to stick to it and that is also part of the professional conversation you have with your colleagues. That is not the case everywhere, so what we have to do is actually implement that directive in practice. Not only do we have to do this, but also the trade unions. That's what we're talking to them about. What we also have to do is that clients are aware of the existence of that directive, so we are also making a client version of that directive. We will also bring them to the attention of the public and spread them further. On September 13th there is a Day of the Youth Professional. For example, there is a workshop on that directive to decide together. In her letter, the Children's Ombudsman said: we think it is important to work more for the sake of the child. She is also working on a hand-out to always put the best interests of the child at the top of every decision we make in the care of young people. That's not exactly the same thing, but it looks like it. That's another thing that's happening. The Association of District Teams is also working on this. In short, a lot is happening, but indeed, it takes some time for you to go from paper to practice. Your motion is clear to me on the retina. I'll, of course, do the math. Report on what happened to it. That's what I'm saying. by the way, it's already this weekend. It's not finished yet, but we'll let you know what we're doing. Mrs Westerveld has expressed a great deal of qualifications and asked a single question about the rights of young people in closed youth aid. She talked about the extent to which this differs from the judicial youth establishment. I do not entirely agree with the qualifications on closed youth aid, because I have been to so many locations where it is much more beautiful than the gloomy image that Mrs Westerveld paints of it. At the same time, I can see that there are indeed differences in legal status. They're undesirable. That is why we intend to come forward with a legislative proposal. That bill is in preparation, along with Mr Dekker. I expect this to take place in consultation at the end of 2019, so it will move towards your Chamber in the first half of 2020. Mr Raemakers asked about the research of the youth-ggz. You say, "For the summer." I promised you that, so I want to make that happen. It will not be possible to give a policy response to this. But when an investigation is complete, you always want it as soon as possible, so I'm going to. I don't know what the outcome is yet. I know it's in conclusion, but I haven't seen the outcome of it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr Raemakers, short and pointy, because we really need to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	Two questions. One: is that action research also semi-binding? Should what is in it also be followed in principle? Question two: the Minister said that after the summer he would come forward with a letter on the reordering of the youth care landscape. Can the Minister also guarantee that the issues raised in the youth-ggz action study will really be taken into account in this reordering? Because I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	The answer to your first question is no, of course not. Investigations are never binding...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	Semi-binding!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u135	...except when I make that appointment, and then I say "semi" too. I didn't do that here. I answered your question here. You have said: do an action study on what really needs to be done better in the youth ggz, but also show what is going well and learn from it. I hope that research will indeed provide us with input for the content of the agreements we have just discussed on the further planning of the youth care landscape. I hope so. I haven't seen anything yet, but I hope that gives us those handles. After the summer I will come back with those appointments. Then I hope to be able to steer our policy response to that investigation and those agreements in one package towards your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. You almost don't believe it, but I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u136	Congratulations. I knew we were gonna see it today, that there was some light at the end of the tunnel. But I had counted outside of Mr Hijink, which is going to repeat the debate. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u137	That's right. I had one more question that stuck. It's about the billion euros that will be added over the next few years. My fear is that many municipalities will decide to use that money to replenish the jars that have been emptied in recent years, such as libraries and sports facilities. All kinds of budgets have been used to close the deficits in youth care. Now that that money is coming, the risk is, of course, that it is not going to benefit youth care, but is going to be used to fill the deficits elsewhere. I would like to ask the Minister how he will prevent this and what guarantees he can give that money actually goes to youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u138	I understand your question very well. I remember that when we started to decentralise youth care, we already reversed the film a few times today, and I think you too, were going to buy the municipalities of all that money that they would get for the care of lantern poles. Reality has been exactly the other way around. They used the money for the lampposts to buy youth care from. At least that happened in a lot of municipalities. I think that justifies having a little more faith in municipalities, in their wisdom in making decisions on the budget. That's one. Two is: have some more faith in your colleagues in the municipal councils. They're not gonna let it happen that the money that's meant for youth care doesn't go to youth care. Three is: municipalities really have the space to take their own budget decisions. That's the space I'd like to leave them. Four is: of course, we do want to know what happens to the money. You want to know that, too. That's a fair question. That's consistent with the investigation we're doing. So first we're doing a follow-the-Money-like investigation into where the money is now; we just want to know that. But we also want to be able to assess whether municipalities have made the right choices in the resources they have received and which were at their disposal. It is part of the Municipal Fund. There is therefore freedom of policy to decide on this. However, I am confident that the right choices will be made. Again, it is not just about money; it is also about all the substantive agreements that are being made. Those choices will be at least as important for the answer to the question: will municipalities be able to spend their money in the coming years? Yes, it is my firm conviction, if the right choices are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u139	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u140	The municipalities have, of course, had to bring a lot of extra money to youth care in recent years. That wasn't really because they liked it so much, but because it really had to be. The problem remains that we no longer have a view on the money that is intended and earmarked for care, whether it is about the Wmo or youth care. We will no longer be able to monitor whether the money allocated to care within the Municipal Fund is actually being spent on care. The Minister is monitoring the nursing homes for the coming years where the additional investment will end up. My question is whether it would not be very logical to do the same for this billion for youth care, because it is well known that reserves have been raised and that money has been taken away from other areas. I fear, and with me many others, that the billion that is now available does not go to youth care, but that people think: hey, that is useful; then we can now close the gaps that we have struck elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u141	My impression is genuinely another. If that were to happen, it would mean that money was wrongly transferred to the municipalities. You don't think so. This would mean that municipalities have said to us that they have very large deficits, but the reality is that they would like to put that in their reserves if they were to receive additional money. I don't believe that. I don't think that's the case. I think it is true that municipalities have rightly indicated that they have deficits. I think it is true that municipalities are right to say: we were short and we had to use all kinds of other budgets to finance youth care. At least that's over. You don't have to, if you look at what contributions there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u142	We are now going to have some sort of system discussion, will we not keep it for the public health budget in October?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u143	Yes. Can I add one more sentence? It is right that Mr Hijink wants to know what that money is being spent on. Me too. That's why we're doing that investigation. Is that what we're gonna do in front of ear tags? No, it's not, because it's not necessary. Youth aid has not become a duty other than that, and according to this duty, municipalities have spent a great deal more money in recent years than they received. That's how congregations are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u144	Can Mrs Westerveld take her contribution in her own second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u145	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u146	Can it be very short and pointy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u147	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I asked in the debate how we will ensure that the money spent goes to care. I asked, because a few weeks ago in several newspapers there was the news that came directly from municipalities: if there is no money now, then we have to close the library, then we have to cut down on road maintenance or then we have to raise local taxes. What is going to happen with this extra money is that fortunately that library is not going to be closed and that road maintenance can simply be carried out. But that also means that this extra money, which the Ministry says is being invested extra in youth care, does not, to a very large extent, go to youth care; that goes to these matters. That is also logical, because in recent years municipalities have had to take a big interest in their own financial reserves, and have indeed had to cut back on culture and so on. That is the point that Mr Hijink also makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u148	He's already made that point himself, so you're actually repeating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u149	Because the Minister explains the answer the other way around. I would like to ask him once again: how do we ensure that this money goes to the young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u150	That's a legitimate question. The first part, that reasoning line, is true. In recent years, the municipalities have spent more money than they received for youth care. That may have been the case before, they could strike off the Wmo first, but certainly in the last few years that has really gotten agitated. So they have indeed had to make difficult choices, and if there had been no additional money from the Empire in this spring note, then all the municipalities in their spring note should indeed have made those painful choices as you say now. But because the money comes, they don't have to make that kind of choices. But they do need that money for youth care. The fear that this will suddenly be placed either in the reserves or in other library-like expenses, which I think is unfounded. You do ear tags when you're afraid that the money will go unintentionally on something else, but I don't have the fear that the money will go on something else, because municipalities have rightly told the Empire that they need more money for youth care than they get. Since I thought that was a fair claim, we also filled in that justified claim with the Spring Note. That's why I expect municipalities to spend that money on youth care. Then your follow-up question will be whether these institutions will be able to do so. That's a fair follow-up question. Hence the investigations as we do, hence my great faith in your colleagues in the city council to keep the college sharp on that point. That is why we want to give that follow-the-money research that depth to really know where that money is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u151	We're gonna love to read it. The cathedral is ready for Mrs. Agema, because we are going to the second term of the Chamber. It is not mandatory to make a contribution to it. The first speaker is Mrs Agema; she has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions first and then a brief reflection. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the transformation goals of the Youth Act included less intensive care, more coherence in aid provision and more scope for the professional;]] [[Whereas the letter of the Children's Ombudswoman also shows that much remains to be done to achieve these transformation goals and that in the meantime, many children with more complex problems in particular remain in difficulty;]] [[calls on the government to evaluate whether the decentralisation of the more complex youth aid should (in part) be recentralised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG) indicates that an additional EUR 490 million is needed in structural terms for the proper implementation of the Youth Act;]] [[noting that, occasionally, in three years, EUR 420, 300 and 300 million will be added;]] [[Considers that this would take the risk of maintaining the current major problems with the Youth Act;]] [[noting that there is yet another €1 billion of structural extra to care (spring note 2019);]] [[calls on the government to provide a further half a billion euros for the implementation of the Youth Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-664]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-665]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u153	Finally, Mr President. This A4 that I now have in hand, used to hang very large in the room of former Secretary of State Veldhuijzen van Zanten. That was before the decision on the decentralisation of the Youth Act was taken by the subsequent cabinet. This was the simple presentation of facts with five levels of government, municipality, state, health insurance law and all tasks that go to the municipalities. I said at the time when the Youth Act was being dealt with: pay attention, these municipalities look like one, but it is 355 municipalities that are going to re-contract everything at different levels of district, regional and municipal level with thousands of different institutions for so many children. So you get a very complex system that will give a huge increase in bureaucracy. It's come true! That is why I would like to express my concerns every time and say that we may be on the wrong track, and I am quite sure that with this system as it is now organized. We should not wait for years again or steal the way we did when it came to finance. Ultimately, they are children with more complex care who are currently in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you. Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Chairman. I have just said that one of the biggest problems facing the youth care workers and young people themselves is competition among themselves: procurement, market incentives, market forces, which make it so difficult to get cooperation off the ground. It could be otherwise, and that is why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Children's Ombudswoman has indicated that the most vulnerable children in our country are dealing with a stack of problems and are therefore automatically confronted with different laws, authorities and rules;]] [[noting that competition in youth care has slipped through, so that vulnerable children do not receive the appropriate care they need in good time;]] [[noting that there are good examples of municipalities which, through a cooperative, give relief and care providers the opportunity to determine which care is needed, without competition and excessive accountability;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage cooperation between youth care providers, for example within cooperatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-666]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you. Then Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I think we had a good debate. It's also quite ideological from time to time, but it's good to do that once in a while. I noticed that, as spokesmen, we have often looked at the past. Sometimes we agreed, but sometimes we disagree. In the debate between the MPs and the government, I noticed that the future has also been looked at very carefully. What else can we do? I have heard positive things from the Minister and I am moderately positive about that. Three things are very important to D66. One. The research of the youth-ggz. I have been given a clear commitment to this. That's going to be taken to the reordering of the youth care landscape that we get after the summer. Secondly, it is very important for us to make good use of the extra money that goes to the youth authority. For example, you can think of the Transformation Fund. That's point two. The third point concerns the question of what is and is not child care. I haven't said much about that myself. Mr Peters mentioned the example of horse therapy. D66 asked written questions about this. An answer disappointed me, namely that the government cannot give a list of municipalities that are now paying for horse therapy. I ask the Minister whether he cannot try to answer that question in the coming months. For the rest, we're gonna read a lot this weekend. It's Pentecost, isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u158	I wish you every success. May the Holy Spirit descend. Mrs. Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that this debate is increasingly about the content of youth care, that we will have and continue to have the money discussion, but that we will eventually talk about the layer below it. Then all these city councils in this country can do the same. 'Cause that's where I think it's supposed to be. I have one more thing to worry about. We'll come back to that in the AO next week. In the care landscape and in the follow-the-Money studies, it continues to be about supply, while in my view demand is still too little in sight. The ggz is also about offering. We need to talk about what the question is. In all municipal councils, too, we must first address the questions that our young people and families have. Then they need to see what appropriate help is and what offer is included, and not the other way around. I miss that sometimes, but we're on the right track. I have one more outstanding question. It was about youth protection. One of the complex and poignant things we see again, for example, is removal, where there is a lot of misery around children and their parents. My question was very specific about the follow-up of the motion on complaints arrangements, and at least to ensure that there is a clear window where parents and their children can go if it does not work as they feel fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u160	Very good. Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. I should have said in the first term that I also made the contribution on behalf of Mrs Kuiken of the PvdA. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vulnerable young people with acute needs are on a waiting list, resulting in life-threatening situations;]] [[noting that the number of young people involved is unknown;]] [[calls on the government to examine how many young people in need of emergency youth assistance are on a waiting list and what is causing this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities are responsible for purchasing highly specialised youth care services, but that appropriate treatment sites have not always been purchased;]] [[Whereas it is unacceptable that young people are too often placed in the wrong place with a complex and acute demand for help or on a waiting list;]] [[calls on the government to direct to create sufficient places for young people with complex mental illness to receive the specialist care they need in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people with complex and acute needs are too often misplaced or placed on a waiting list;]] [[Whereas it may be vital for these young people to be helped in a timely and effective manner;]] [[Whereas there are centres of expertise for young people with somatic diseases, such as cancer, where the best specialist care is bundled and the right facilities are available;]] [[Whereas such centres of expertise are insufficient for young people with complex mental illness;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there are national centres of excellence for these young people;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in the short term of how this is being achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-667]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-668]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-669]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u162	Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We see large deficits in municipalities. We see large deficits in institutions. We see that more and more children need youth help. Meanwhile, there are municipalities where one in six children needs professional help in order to grow up decently, although we do not know where that volume growth comes from and what help they get. We also see that municipalities have 100, 200, 300 or 400 providers and contracts, including aid providers that have never been included in the youth care system in the past. When I call municipalities and ask them if they actually know who they're all contracting, they say: yes, I know, but the Youth Act doesn't give any room to offer some things. That is why I come with the next motion, together with Mr Raemakers and Mr Voordewind. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Youth Act is so broad as to cover virtually any problem;]] [[Whereas this means that municipalities can interpret the Youth Act so widely that virtually all "solutions" could be reimbursed by the municipality;]] [[having noted that as a result, several municipalities are compensating for cases such as child coaching, horse therapy, bso-plus and homework guidance plus, whereas they do not receive any funding for this;]] [[calls on the Minister to explore, together with municipalities, the scope of the youth aid obligation, taking into account what is part of normal education and growth, which may be part of a (collective) prevention approach and where the youth aid obligation begins, and to inform the Court of Justice about this for the budget treatment for 2020, so that any adjustment is necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters, Mr Raemakers, Mr Voordewind and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-670]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u164	Since that's how I share that analysis, I'd like to sign with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u165	Well, brilliant, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u166	Make someone happy again. Mr Voordewind took care of the day closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr. Chairman. With Pentecost approaching, it's an honor to close the day, but I'm afraid it's going to be a long night for you and for all of us. I've asked some questions and most have been answered, but I had another one about the upcoding. The Minister had started replying to it, but did not finish it. Because it emerged in the benchmark analysis as a concern that certain care is being revalued or scaled up in terms of fees, this may be a topic to take into account in the in-depth research. I'd like to give that to the Minister. If he gives us a list of the things he's going to investigate, is he willing to include that upcoding in it? I would like to ask him the same thing when it comes to the definition of the Youth Act and the Wlz, the Long-Term Care Act. The Minister can say that there is probably still development in this area when it comes to young people, but we must, of course, prevent the Wlz from being so close that the municipalities continue to take full care, even though there may still be developments in it. Would he like to take that point with him in the investigation? Finally. We have seen that many children using youth care come from fighting divorces. My group would appreciate it very much if these elements could also be included in the in-depth investigation. Linked to that, and when that research comes, I'm gonna keep pleading for couples therapy in the basic package. But the secretary of mine knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u168	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u169	It would be great if the Minister would stick to his five minutes. It would be very nice if he were to go through the questions briefly and pointily. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u170	Mr President, that is what I am going to do. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the extremely substantive debate. I liked that. I thought that was valuable. I am also counting on such a debate next week, because I think we need it and the youth care sector is asking us to do so. We're gonna have to get to work. There's work to be done. The only way to achieve this is to do so as far as possible in terms of content. In that spirit of compromise, and of course the spirit of Pentecost, I would like to go over the motions before us. The first motion, Mrs Agema's motion on item No. 664, calls on the government to evaluate whether the decentralisation of more complex youth aid should not be partly recentralised. Of course, that goes far beyond what I just said. The funny thing is that that's actually because of that word "centralized." If it had stood there "calling on the government to consider whether "the more complex youth aid should not be partly organised above regional level," then it would have been very close again to what I have just said. I'd like to leave that to Mrs. Agema. With this wording, I have no choice but to discourage the motion. When it comes to supraregional organisation, it could be policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u171	I think I've done that before, so we're gonna crawl back in the pen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u172	It's beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u174	I like it. This is the spirit of Pentecost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u175	What does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u176	That I change the operative part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u177	We are looking forward to a revised motion by Mr Agenma on item No. 664.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u178	If you do that, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. If you do it any other way, I'll let you know my judgment. Then I'll get to the next motion. That's where we need to be clear. I can't do that right now. I think I have just given all the arguments for this in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u179	And so she's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u180	Dissuade. Then I come to the Heink motion on part No. 666. I would also like to choose the Pentecostal route there. Mr Hijink is actually saying important things there that I simply agree with. I can see that this competition in youth care has really gone a long way on a number of points. I have said this before in interviews and debates. Indeed, I see that this leads to more accountability than is strictly necessary. I therefore believe that municipalities should work towards greater coherence and cooperation between their youth care providers. I have two objections to this wording of the operative part. The first is that you put that order on the government's sign, where I believe that the cabinet can, of course, encourage municipalities, but that incentive should initially be directed at the municipalities. The second objection is that co-operatives are very pre-sorted. Now I'm not against co-operative associations. I actually think that's a very nice model. But I do think that's not the only model that could work in municipalities. I also see other models in which this cooperation, that co-operative between suppliers, does indeed come off the ground. In short, if you put it that way, I am going to dissuade her, but if, for example, you would say that the government is encouraging municipalities to encourage cooperation between youth care providers, without the cooperatives following it, then these cooperatives can continue to be an example in the 'confirming' right in front of it. But I wouldn't want them in the operative part, because that is very pre-sorted by only one form of organisation, and I wouldn't think that was right. If you put it that way, I can support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u181	Then I'm gonna change her on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u182	Then we look forward to a revised version of the motion in part No. 666.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u183	The motion in part No. Mrs Westerveld's 667 calls on the government to examine how many young people who need urgent youth assistance are on a waiting list and what is causing this. This is in line with previous motions tabled by Mrs Westerveld and which I have, in fact, seriously discouraged. I wanted to do the same with this one, because I think it is wrongly assumed that we should keep the registration here. Nor can we offer that solution. That solution lies in the region. That is why registration must also be in the region. However, we need to establish, encourage and support this waiting-list approach of regions, and we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u184	Perhaps the Minister could take a look at this together with the VNG. Today, a motion has also been tabled and adopted at the VNG Congress in which the municipalities tell each other that there must be a look at those waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u185	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u186	The Minister is responsible for the system. To know more about how it works, I think we should also have data. That is the underlying reason for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u187	I do understand the underlying reason for the motion, but I believe that that places a registration obligation on the side of the Empire that does not belong on the side of the Empire. The Empire is system responsible, and that is why it is important on the part of the Empire that we ensure that there is a waiting list approach in each region. We are. We also need to support them with each other. Of course, we do that together with the VNG. We are. We also need to know that this waiting list approach is still inadequate in the regions, also because there is insufficient visibility of reality and insufficient analysis of data. We are. In short, we have many forms of support, which you also see in the progress report you get from the weekend, but those forms of support do not include a central registration of who is on the waiting list. That would suggest that we can then work on it, and we do not have that possibility because we are not giving it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u188	Very briefly, two words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u189	Surely it is impossible for us to know whether there are dozens or a few hundred children on waiting lists who now need immediate help?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u190	To this end, we have established that all regions have a waiting list approach and that all regions have an expert team to ensure that aid is provided and that there is also a perseverance to force that aid. In short, we are doing what we need to do as a system manager. I'm dissuading the motion. The Westerveld motion in part No. 668 calls on the government to direct to create enough places for young people with complex mental illness to receive the specialist care they need in the short term. A little in the same spirit or compromise, I would suggest to Mrs Westerveld that she add to the operative part: "calls the government with municipalities..." This is how responsibility is divided. What we are doing is this. We have had this whole debate about whether we should not come to a further arrangement of the care landscape, or, in the words of Mrs Agema's motion, whether we should not consider whether we should regulate some of the specialist care at a higher level of aggregation, i.e. above regional level. I think that fits perfectly with this motion. So if you change the motion so that you ask the government to 'direct with municipalities', then the motion again matches the legal division of responsibility. So if you change the motion like that, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u191	The thumb goes up at Mrs. Westerveld, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u192	That's what we always like to see. Then, Mr President, Mrs Westerveld's next motion, to item No. I have just understood that 669, which has also been tabled on behalf of Mrs Kuik. A bit of left-wing cooperation towards the people; of course we always welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u193	That's news to me, because that's not under the motion. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u194	Oh, I thought the text...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u195	The input. The input was on behalf of Mrs. Kuiken, but not the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u196	Oh, that was only for the input, not for the motions! Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u197	No, you're making state law...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u198	So much for the left-wing collaboration. Then I withdraw my enthusiasm! Let's see. I'm all over my à propos... Yes, I'm going to discourage this motion, because the motion actually jumps to the conclusion that there should be national centres of expertise. It may well be, I say in the direction of Mrs Westerveld, that you are indeed deciding to organise a number of forms of care, a number of specializations, above-regional or rural. This requires a centre of expertise, from which expertise drips down to care at the other levels. I can, but I'm not there yet. I therefore find this motion very uniform in what should be the outcome of the discussions that we are having in the coming period. This motion, in this form, I'm going to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u199	I was wondering: isn't it true that we already have the CCE, the Centre for Consultation and Expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u200	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u201	Is that all about intellectual limitations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u202	Yeah, that's linked to the Wlz. But you do have an interesting thought: you might want to see if that centre should not have a broader expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u203	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u204	Expert teams sometimes find that there are children who aren't so easily divided up in a booth or in a law. In addition, the form of care is actually just a combination of what one might call youth care, what one might call complex ggz and what one might call serious intellectual disability. And then the CCE is a very logical choice to bet. It also happens, but very sporadic and usually linked to a Wlz-place and to a lesser extent linked to a youth care place. But it's possible. Then I have some... No, I have another motion from Mr Peters and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u205	In part No. 670.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u206	In part No. 670, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u207	There are even four signatures underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u208	Yes. Then I'm going to count very quickly and then I understand that I must of course give this motion judgment Chamber. And I think it's fair to say so. We've had the discussion. However exactly the outcome of the discussion is going to lead to perhaps a legislative amendment, an AMvB or a regulation amendment, I am not getting ahead of that for a moment. But the fact that we have this discussion about the scope of the youth duty is one thing that is certain. So this motion is policy support, and I like to embrace it. Then there were three questions. I am happy to include Mr Voordewind's question about the upcoding in the study. Then I have the question about the Wlz. Of that I think: no, that is not a subject for a Follow the Money-like investigation. It could be a subject if you examine how much money municipalities need structurally. It may have a connection with that, but I do not think there is any connection with the follow-the-Money research. It cannot be the case that Wlz care is at issue in the question of where the money remains and what municipalities spend their money on, unless municipalities never tell parents at all that they should actually be at the Wlz, but that is not true. It is rather the other way around, namely that municipalities say too quickly to parents that they should actually be at the Wlz. Then I come to the question about the divorces. That's hard for me, too. 'Cause it's about wanting to know where your money is. Of course, divorce issues are a background for trauma care and for forms of youth care; we know that. We are there in the program Separating without damage under the direction of André Rouvoet extremely intensively on top. So we create many forms of care and support, precisely focused on fighting divorces. But I don't think it's necessarily relevant in the investigation. Then I have one more question from Mrs Tielen. That is the question of progress on the motion on the integration of all complaints. That is a motion that has been tabled on Mr Dekker's portfolio. In the letter of this weekend you will receive a progress report. It is about complaint mediation on the youth protection side. Youth protection is, of course, part of Mr Dekker's portfolio. Progress is reported in the progress report of this weekend. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u209	I look from my corners of the eye and I see people approaching. I thought we were a little there, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u210	I wanted to do something very binding as a lock, but that's not going very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u211	Then I'd like to hear a word from you, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u212	I asked a question about horse therapy. We had asked written questions about this. The motion from us together says that we need to have all kinds of things clear by 2020, but can we not look at how many municipalities do this more quickly specifically for horse therapy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u213	You asked about the 'horse therapy' and Mr Voordewind actually asked about the 'pair therapy'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u214	He'll be in a horse club.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u215	I'll see if I can answer it a little bit. We don't keep track; nobody keeps track of it. Only municipalities know what they buy themselves. There's no record of that. So I can't give you that insight. That is disappointing, but at the same time reassuring. Because if we did, that would mean that we would keep very wonderful, large registration files. There is no separate registration code that can be asked out nationwide for something like horse therapy. You know about youth aid. You know how long such a trajectory lasts and whether it's ended with a positive result. You know a lot of things, but the classification "horse therapy" is not part of that. Mr Voordewind asked if you could support relationship therapy under the Health Insurance Act. I would find that extremely unwise. You are very consistent and consistent in the view that it should be, but I do not think that the Health Insurance Act is really intended for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u216	Fine, then that's all solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u217	Also very consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u218	Just one more thing, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u219	I take note of that. I know what the Minister thinks. But if we find that many children from broken relationships end up in youth care, the question remains, of course, what the minister can do with the municipalities. Can we see if we could do much more to support prevention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u220	There's a lot of it on its own. For example, when it comes to relationships in which domestic violence plays a role, there are interventions financed from the municipal domain. When it comes to support for education, that also affects the relationship of parents, then there are interventions that are simply financed from the youth domain. The sole purpose of a relationship therapy is to keep the relationship in order. It is also possible to have a view: is this really youth care? I think it is right to ask that question. In any case, it is right to ask: is that actually health insurance law funded care? As far as I am concerned, the answer to that question is really no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u221	Yes, Mr Voordewind, there you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u222	It's consistent, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u223	That has been established. So much for this debate. Thank you very much. I'm glad the minister was with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-7.u224	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I'll suspend to the clock of 6:30 for dinner. Then we're going to talk about study funding.
