ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the message that the UWV is wrongly granting benefits to prisoners. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	Without the lyrics? Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	My intention for after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would actually like to say: here we are again. Because again this is a debate about the UWV and again this is a debate about something that went wrong at the UWV. At the beginning of this year, we have had a lot of debates here on the WW fraud. You can say all kinds of things about it. And then there was fraud with inmates. What really affected my party was that we depended on the media every time we got the information about it. Unfortunately, it didn't come from this cabinet. What I might be as sorry about is that the Minister was as shocked every time as we were, that he didn't know either. Now, a few months later, we read in the information given by the minister in his letters and in the investigations what is really going on at the UWV. We find that all but reassuring and really very disturbing. In this particular case, the fraud with the detainees, for four years a very simple system has not been in place. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. How come no one's gonna find out? How is it that the UWV, such an important, large organization with billions of people in it, still has ICT systems that run on information from before the social security numbers? How is that possible? How can it be that investigations are being carried out, but that the employees of the UWV do not have time to do anything with these investigations and that they remain on the shelf? How is that possible? That's what I want to know from the Minister. The other question I would like to ask him is perhaps even more important: is this it now? Quite frankly, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance does not have the idea that this is it. I take seriously into account that Newshour or any other medium coming week, next month or within a few months, will come up with a scoop again. Then we stand here again during Question Time and the Minister says: 'Good, I find it very annoying again and I am going to send information to the Chamber quickly.' It almost seems as if we are in some kind of bad game, in which we are surprised each time that things are not going well at the UWV. My question to the Minister is therefore very simple: does he think this is it? Does he promise this is it? GroenLinks has real faith in this minister. GroenLinks also believes that this minister does what he can to put things in order at the UWV, but somewhere it stops with that confidence, if we continue to be surprised again and again. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's answer to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point I would very much like to make. It's also about trust, but in a different way. Every time we talk about the UWV in this Chamber, it's about fraud and things that go wrong. I imagine that does something with an organization and the people who work day in, day out with soul and salvation to make our social security work in a good way. But I can also imagine that it does something with the people who have been unlucky in life and on the UWV have been designated for a benefit, and that should not really be allowed. My question to the Minister on this point is as follows: how is he going to ensure that the balance between service provision on the one hand and enforcement on the other hand remains good? How is he going to make sure that the hundreds of thousands of people who simply can't do anything else and rely on the UWV are also entitled to do so, because we have decided together that things are not going to get hurt at the UWV? That is something that my group is at least seriously concerned about. I think it is important that we continue to stress this in debates such as today, where there are many things that are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	That was my argument. But I think there's still some interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yeah, I see it, too. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	I liked the argument. Also the fact that there are concerns at GroenLinks, because we share them. When's another rabbit coming out of the top hat? Mr Smeulders also indicated that he had confidence in this minister. When's that gonna stop trusting me? When is that boundless confidence gonna mean that things are gonna be okay and that this minister is gonna be okay? Where's the border for GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	If I've learned something, including from this minister, it's that you should never really go into like-dan questions, even because you don't know what else is gonna happen. We do not know, but by asking the Minister, I am trying to make it clear that the Minister can appear again every month and say: 'Sorry, I did not know'. Then we get another letter stating that there are omissions. At some point, it stops. I can't tell you because I can't see into the future when that is. But in the end, the minister is politically responsible for the UWV. If mistakes continue to be made there that are bad for our social security base, then that is not endless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	In my opinion, the whole of the Netherlands is sick of all these examples and is very upset that taxes, premiums, go to these kinds of abuses. So I do not see GroenLinks drawing a sharp line, up to here and no further. I would actually like to ask Mr Smeulders. When will it stop for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	I can repeat my answer: I cannot look into the future. On the basis of what has happened now, we find the situation appalling, but we have confidence in the Minister that he is taking action to resolve it. But if we continue to be surprised, there will be an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	I was just laughing. Mr Smeulders spoke about ICT systems prior to the social security number. I think it's just called card box and crown pen, but that aside. I found it typical of the misery at UWV which Mr Smeulders rightly mentioned in his request for a debate and also in his contribution. Speaking of misery, 50PLUS has already tried. I am not going to talk about confidence in the Minister, but about Parliament's confidence in itself. When does Mr. Smeulders think it is time that Parliament itself took action to investigate the misery at the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	We had a debate in the spring. At that time, we tabled a motion for the Court of Auditors to investigate the UWV, because it seemed appropriate to us, also because the Court of Auditors did so a few years ago. They were incredibly positive about the UWV back then. We were all quite honest afterwards a bit surprised because a lot of things went wrong. So at that point we said: the Court of Auditors seems to us to be the most logical body. I am telling you quite frankly: if things continue to go wrong at the UWV, it is quite logical that the Chamber itself will investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you. That's a clear answer. Moreover, the Court of Auditors is a fantastic institution, which I will always support. But that time it did not seem to be entirely right for what the Court of Auditors has examined. Then, of course, it makes sense to start doing research on its own. It's back on track now. If I am going to make a motion, which we have done before as a PVV, my colleague De Jong has tabled this motion earlier in order to launch a parliamentary inquiry into the debacle called UWV, can I expect the support of GroenLinks and therefore Mr Smeulders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	We are going to study this motion very seriously and I am going to discuss it in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think we can all imagine what Mr Smeulders is saying. It cannot be explained, and that requires an approach. Whether you like it or not, we have to go further in this house than just shouting shame and screaming. So I would also like to ask Mr Smeulders: does he himself have proposals in this case which he says we should do differently? I notice that the IT, for example, is rattling, that it is very complex. There's a signal going to a region first, there's no callback, so there's actually no feedback loop in it; there's no double check, there's no central control. Are there any proposals that GroenLinks would like to present to the Minister, rather than just asking the Minister what it is coming up with? 'Cause we know that by now. We can also contribute to this. I would therefore call on Mr Smeulders to do so. Take the lead with solutions yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	What I find difficult, in the context of our framework and monitoring task, is the extent to which we should direct an implementing organisation. To what extent should we as a parliament say that you should do this at the UWV, or you should do that? If we do that in all the implementing organisations, I think we are going to lose the main lines far out of the picture. I read De Telegraaf this morning. I think it says what you are about to propose. I understand on the one hand that you say: we find this so frustrating as Chamber, that we have to do something about it ourselves. We as GroenLinks are not yet that far. We are going to take a serious look at your proposals. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. I see the Minister is doing a lot too, so I have faith in that. But what I just made clear is that trust is not limitless. So if there are all sorts of new things coming out in a moment that the Minister apparently didn't know it was going wrong, then I say: at some point it's going to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	That's easy politics. You ask for a debate, you invoke shame and you say, Minister, solve it. Then you will say: perhaps I have some ideas, but at least I am not going to give them here. Good luck with that, but fix it! Come on, we're responsible here for coming up with ideas. I would just like to mention one point: central direction. It's very complex. Shouldn't we say: UWV has to investigate reports from the Justice Department, but does it want to be in charge after that, so that there is a double check to see if it works and if a benefit has actually been taken away? Now that's not in there. Shouldn't we just take care of that? That's an example. I will come up with more examples, but I would really like to challenge you to come up with proposals to make it better, rather than just standing here saying that it can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	I find this a little easy on Mr Wiersma. I regret that, in the last debate we have as Social Affairs spokesmen. Mr Wiersma chose to sit in the Minister's chair. I don't know if that's his ambition, but at least my ambition isn't. I do think that we, as the House of Representatives, are responsible for the proper implementation of our social security. If anything goes wrong, we must call the minister who is going to do so to the Chamber and address him. I also see that the Minister of your coalition, not mine, is taking all kinds of measures to put things in order at the UWV. We support him in that. The most important point, apart from calling for shame, because we are all going to do so today, which I have brought in today, is that we must also keep an eye on the people who are entitled to benefit. It cannot be that, because some people commit fraud and abuse the system, all those who are entitled to it will suffer. I hope you will support us in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. Before the summer, we discussed the UWV several times, for example about the WW fraud. The minister was not amused; we all remember that. It all had to be different and it was promised. But there was no getting better. Mostly new revelations came. In June, the next UWV failure surfaced. This time it concerns unfair payments to inmates. They have no right to do so. But the control by the UWV was completely absent. Computers would've been off for years. How embarrassing is that? The minister was once again completely surprised; he knew nothing about it. Once again, we heard it through the media. We didn't hear from the UWV board. Again a scandalous attempt to keep things under wraps, it seems. It is also a matter of considerable numbers. In a group of 2,200 inmates, 550 benefits were wrongly not stopped, i.e. a quarter of the total. The letter of 28 June announced measures. I have a number of questions about this. What is the situation with regard to the recovery of unduly paid benefits? How's the system update coming? How much is the total damage? Can we assume that no prisoner is receiving any benefit at this time? Is that what the current population is controlled for? In the various annual reports, the UWV reports on the reasons for ending benefits. Detention is also reported, but with the WW the post detention is not mentioned at all as a reason for termination. Why not? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the letter of September 2nd, early this week, we get new revelations again. Mistakes have been made in the treatment of prisoners abroad. Also, almost a thousand fugitives are not included in files. Revealations and imperfections again! Of course, you have to deal with these matters right away, but the question is whether this will happen, because in the NRC of 4 July, I read that UWV employees are being obstructed in the fight against fraud. Anyone who sees that things are going wrong should not work with that, according to an UWV employee. This is serious and I hope the Minister will strongly condemn it with me. This gives little confidence in the future approach. Last Monday's letter also contains a wonderful assessment of the policy in the past. I quote: 'This has not always been sufficiently thorough and future-proof'. In other words, we made a mess of it. That's what's euphemistically written there. Do you share that opinion? For Prince's Day, we'll get new proposals. That's almost it. Can the minister give us a peek? Does the Minister share my view that the UWV drama has been going on for far too long and that it is rather ridiculous to be surprised by the media as a minister? Is it not true that promises about improvement are therefore not credible and that the measures now being taken are too little and too late? When does the Minister acknowledge that the UWV has a structural problem with a government that is mainly concerned with image and spreadsheets? When is the Minister really going to clean up and call on drivers? And if he doesn't, how many mistakes can the board make of him? Is it acceptable to the Minister that we should be back here soon? I assume not, but take action today. And when does the Court dare to take a fundamental look at this organisation through a parliamentary inquiry? Do not walk away from your responsibility because there are fellow party members involved, I would like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Palland on behalf of the CDA. Mrs. Palland has been here a few times, but this is her maiden speech. As you know, it is customary not to interrupt and especially to listen, but that is always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you for that, colleagues. Mr. Chairman. A special moment: my first participation in a plenary debate and that halfway through this parliamentary term. An interim membership of the House of Representatives is quite exciting. Most of them have been on the road for a while, but I just got on a moving train, or perhaps better, a high-speed train, as I have been able to experience recently. Mr. Chairman. I'm from the Hanseatic town of Kampen. I was born and raised there and after my law school in Groningen I ended up there again with some coincidence. Kampen is a Hanseatic city, part of the hanzeverbond of a small two hundred international cities and their merchants in the fourteenth to the seventeenth century, and since 1980 again active, to this day, in the New Hanseatic. Typical values are: entrepreneurship, solidarity and cooperation, courage and courage, civic spirit and community spirit. International trade between the Hanseatic cities brought not only economic prosperity, but also a vital society, good education, health and care for the elderly, art and culture, and justice. The religious movement of modern devotion in the period around Kampen, Zwolle, Hasselt and Deventer also flourished, a movement that turned strongly against excrement within the church and which advocated a modest and sober lifestyle with strong interconnectivity and community spirit, while looking at each other. Mr. Chairman. An important value is the willingness for consensus and cooperation between government, employers and employees. This forms the basis of what later became the Rhineland model: people on the floor and at the helm, and staff and management in a supporting role, according to the chairman of the SER Overijssel, Harry Webers. It is a stakeholder value rather than a shareholder value or shareholder interest. Mr. Chairman. I feel at home in that region, with this history and tradition of values. I look forward to making my contribution in this house as Overijsselse with a background in law and experience as a self-employed person, a contribution from the Christian Democratic premise that man is not on his own but always in relation to the other. Together we form society. Let's give each other the space to be who we are each separately and be involved in each other, looking out for your neighbor. Or as it is so beautifully called in the East of the Netherlands: "noaberschap." I also hope, as a member of the House of Representatives, that people will experience this involvement. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue before us today: hundreds of prisoners who have received a benefit from the UWV which they were not entitled to, rising to amounts of 10 to hundreds of thousands of euros per inmate. How is this possible in the Netherlands, I wonder. And I'm not alone; I'm sure all the other Dutch people who work hard or do their best to find work will do the same. We expect everyone in this country to do their best to make something of life. We are strict for those who do not want and helpful for those who cannot. This has been the basis of our social security system for many years, fair and solidarity, in which work must pay and the government can be trusted. Mr. Chairman. As far as the CDA is concerned, this debate is about more than just another implementation problem of the UWV. After all, the list of shortcomings is so long that there is no longer an incident or an industrial accident. Not only the trust in the UWV is undermined, but that in the government. How can the Dutch still trust the government, if it does not have its own affairs in order? We are probably not going to get the answer to this fundamental question today, but at least let this debate contribute to it. The CDA reads in the documents that the Minister himself also notes that there is a broader problem with implementing organisations, that the UWV is not the only implementation organisation where the machine is failing. Would the Minister like to reflect on this observation? How will the Minister make an effort to regain confidence in the government? We read that a build-up of complex laws and regulations to be processed is one of the causes of the problems that have arisen in the UWV. That makes sense, but it should not be an excuse, because we also impose the same rules on our citizens and on business. They must also comply with and apply them in their household or business operations, subject to penalties and other sanctions. The CDA finds too many rules absolutely no justification for failing implementing authorities. We are critical and have the following questions to the Minister. "On the basis of the available data, it will be considered which recoveries can be realised," we read in the documents. Why this initial reluctance? The CDA wants everything to be done to bring back every wrongly issued euro and to keep every prisoner's benefit history under review. Then we know immediately whether recovery actions and improvement measures of the UWV have had the desired effect. Is the Minister prepared to do so? We may also have a motion for that. Mr. Chairman. Last Monday we received an update from the Minister on the state of affairs at UWV. The problem sketch that emerges from this is rather unheard of. ICT systems are outdated and gaps in processes have to be met manually, and that goes wrong. A number of quotes from the letters. "It is not for the UWV to determine automatically whether a benefit should be terminated in the event of a coincidence between detention notifications. It takes manual work. It is not excluded that inmates apply for benefits from detention and do not get a picture through the current data exchange. The UWV has informed me that the data provided by the State Department to UWV has not worked properly for three months. The SVB recently informed me that the provision of data from the State Department did not take place between 2016 and 2019. Fugitives are included in a search register that has migrated to a new register, and by mistake a part of the fugitive's file is not included." Mr. Chairman. For each of these problems, the Minister has a solution in his letter and that is to be appreciated, but the picture is above all that they are emergency repairs, designed to build a shaky house and not to replace the foundation. And so it always goes: the media expose a problem, the Chamber asks questions, the Minister promises to get better and we continue until the following problem arises. In the meantime, confidence is declining. Last year the Minister strengthened the supervision of the UWV and we also received a letter on this subject, on 7 March last. I wonder if the problems we are discussing today with the enhanced supervision of the UWV would have come to light sooner. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. I talked about trusting the government. That trust is under pressure. Not only when it comes to the UWV, but I am also thinking of other implementing organisations: the Tax Administration, the CBR and so on. We've got a huge job to do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	I would like to congratulate you on your beautiful speech and on the beautiful story about your background. It's nice of you to share that with us, too. You have exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	You were allowed to do that once, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	I think Mr Geurts has given the opinion that the President is not interrupting. I would like to welcome you here. I've done that before. I will now be the first to congratulate you. I shall then suspend the congratulations of the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Solidarity is the cement of cohesion. I didn't make that up. That was famous union leader Herman Bode. The other famous sense of his was: if we want to go to the Dam, then we go to the Dam. This man was right. Solidarity represents cohesion in our society. Solidarity is also the basis of our social security. Social security is meant for us to catch you if you're unlucky, if you get sick or if you lose your job. We all do that, we collectively do that, and we all pay for it. The shadow side, the attacks on solidarity, can be: fraud and abuse. In order to maintain this cohesion, in order to maintain that solidarity, we must always be very strict on possible forms of fraud and abuse of our social system. Mr. Chairman. We've seen this too many times at the UWV. We get mugged by the media every time. Mr Smeulders has already said it. First, it was the WW fraud and now it is prisoners who are wrongly paid benefits. That is very worrying, precisely because of the fundamental point that can and also affects our solidarity. This is yet another debate on the implementation by the UWV. We have already asked the Minister in an earlier debate to really tackle a number of issues, to set up a fraud council and to set up an investigation into the future of the UWV. What's going on with all these cases? On the one hand, we are being attacked again by this news, but on the other hand, we have already put the Minister to great work. My second point, Mr President. This also does something to the employees at the UWV. An external investigation has been carried out into the employees of the UWV. There's a culture of fear. There's a very high workload. There's a culture of ticking lists that makes people stop looking, but they're just getting targets. They experience a high workload and, for example, do not dare to report abuses to their supervisor anymore. How is the Minister going to change this culture, which is essential? When employees have autonomy, they can feel free to report abuses, for example, and are not concerned with quantity and ticking lists, but with quality. On the one hand, they can help people who need it well and on the other hand they can deal with people who may want to abuse our social system. This requires a different culture at the UVW, without ticking lists and targets. People have to have the space to do their job properly. How's the secretary gonna change that? Finally, Mr President. I am convinced that we have hidden too much of the UWV and our social security behind websites and computers in recent years. The real, good implementation of social security is personal contact. You're unlucky, and you're vulnerable. Then you don't want to talk to a computer, but to an involved employee of in this case the UWV. This will improve the service for the people who need it, and through personal contact we can also detect possible forms of fraud and abuse more quickly and more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	The latter was taken from my heart. I just touched on Mr Van Dijk's previous point, which said that culture has to change. I wanted to challenge him to say that this also applies to us as politics, in what we have left for an implementation that is capable of providing that service to people. Because they expect that we, as politicians, sometimes dare to be honest about things that simply cannot be carried out and that we, as politicians, deliver butter to the fish, so no unfulfilled laws and not all things that go wrong in advance, and then complain later that things go wrong in execution. The latter was therefore very much in agreement with Mr Van Dijk. I look forward to working with him to make some changes at the UWV, but that we also change things ourselves. Because I think the mirror fits us as politics here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	A statement, but was there a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	There was a question in there, Mr. Chairman. It was about the role that we, as politicians, have played in recent years. We think too little about implementation: is what we invent possible and is there enough budget to really help people? Another essential point is that if we think that work is ultimately very important for a lot of people, we should also look at the arrangements that we now know. A very small example, if I may. I spoke to someone last week who's 100% rejected and has a Wajong benefit. He said to the UWV: I am tired, but I want to take a few more steps on the labour market. The first message is that, because of the rules we made up with each other, he will be cut off from his benefit, so, given his illness, he should simply remain 100% in that benefit. That is the world we have created as a political one. This means that a more fundamental debate is needed on the arrangements that help people. They have to give people the certainty to jump rather than focus on sanctions based on distrust, which means that they are not helping people to get to work, but helping people to get further away from work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr President, thank you. If you're out of work and you get a benefit, the UWV is on your roof when you're late to apply. But if you're in jail, you're gonna get a benefit here while you've already saddled society with enormous damage. So the UWV has been sleeping in the case we're talking about today and the inmates' bank account has been kept up. That defies our all sense of justice. You can't reach that with your hat. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has always been a driver of the tough approach here, but that doesn't work when the UWV is as leaky as a basket. You can't waste that approach, and we're all responsible for that. It is good that the Minister has taken a number of firm measures to reduce the margin of error and put things in order. At the same time, I think we are all uneasy about the fact that it is now running like a sun, that things are completely in order. Because to the extent it continues to guess, the recovery remains uncertain, the process is too complex and the IT rattles. And UWV and the minister together with this parliament are not enough in control either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Wiersma of the VVD argues for a tough approach and, of course, he thinks we are on his side. A hard approach is good. Just now, in his interruption to one of the other MPs, he was talking about a lot of ideas he has about dealing with the mess, so to speak, at the UWV, the gang that rules there. Now, as a PVV, we have tabled a number of motions in the past, including on this subject: the misery at UWV. I did not find Mr Wiersma by my side, by our side. That's unfortunate, to say the least. We advocated a tough approach, in two parts. The first tough approach is that the drivers who have been responsible for the past few years should be punished, say, since 2011, since the most misery runs. Then the VVD votes against. And then there's our own role. In the meantime, the PVV has pleaded twice, by means of a motion in this Chamber, for a parliamentary inquiry. Even then I don't find the VVD on our side. I'd be happy to file these two motions later. Can I find Mr Wiersma and his VVD by my side? I think that is a good part of a tough approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	I shall make a number of other proposals myself. I'd like to do that. Let me put it simply: we always support good proposals. Those proposals should be aimed at improving the situation, getting the money back from where it doesn't belong. Criminals in prison, I don't trust. Mr. De Graaf doesn't trust them either, but apparently UWV does. That's wrong, and that's what you have to do. I address these criminals, I address them to UWV, but especially here, in this house, I address the minister. Anything that helps to improve that, I will support. Of course, I do not support everything you propose and what does not contribute to it. I'll have to wait and see what you come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	It won't be a surprise what I come up with. In fact, I come up with the proposals that Mr De Jong and I have made in recent debates. Those are just very constructive proposals, neat proposals without offensive matters for other parties in them. They're just neat suggestions. We say: those drivers, you have to deal with them, otherwise such a problem will continue in the future. You're gonna have to set an example. You can say, "Okay, it's done, let it go." That's the VVD approach. But we don't want that. Those drivers need to be punished. That's one. Secondly, let us give ourselves, Parliament, a role. Let us now look carefully, so that we do not get back here in three months, six months, nine months, next year, three years, in five years' time, and that Mr Wiersma has to finish the same story here again. That would be a shame, because then all his hard work would not be addressed. So I would say: these are neat proposals, so support them. They help to prevent the re-establishment of tough measures in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	Obviously, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	I look forward to these proposals, as I said. I like to read them. We are side by side to deal with this; that seems clear to me. That's what we've done in the past. I am therefore looking forward to these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	I would like to draw the Minister's attention to three points, namely the size, the ICT and the whole process surrounding it. The size. The investigations are disturbing, but they are still a little vague. Well, you can say they're very vague. Because we do not know exactly what the numbers are, how many euros are involved, what has already been collected, for example, in fines, whether fines have been imposed, how many fines are still being imposed, and whether this is the tip of the iceberg. Mr Smeulders also asked: is this the tip of the iceberg? I can hardly imagine that in municipalities everything is going well. That is not mentioned in Monday's letter. Is the Minister prepared to broaden the investigation accordingly, to see how big the problem is? And can we also appeal there, to check again what might not have been properly processed about reports? I.T.'s gonna have to sort things out. We have a lot of plans in this area. That is what the UWV is doing and that is what the Minister is doing, but what strikes me is that we see a lot of IT problems, but that the Chamber actually has too little control over them. We also do not know exactly when what is being done. Nor are we sufficiently informed whether it is the good things; we must also put our hands into our own bosom. I understood, for example, that this system, the common referral index, is not on the list of systems being replaced. That sounds really weird to me. Can the Minister give us some explanation on that? How can we strengthen that grip, even from the Chamber? And isn't it really weird that we have so many links in that whole process with the benefits, but that we don't even keep that light on to see if it can be simpler? That's how I make the bridge to the trial. I see the Minister's ambition. That's very good. But I'd love it if we had some kind of central direction now, before we're years away again. All these notifications that UWV is investigating should also be returned, for example central to UWV. That way, we can check to see if it's going in the right direction. Could the Justice Department clarify the intake of inmates rather? Can the DJI explain to you that you also need to report that you have to stop your benefit yourself? If they do not, how often is a fine imposed in practice? And does that sufficiently terrifying work? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would especially like to thank the UWV. 'Cause I spoke to someone this morning who sent me an angry e-mail earlier that morning. Two hours later he sent me another e-mail that he was still very well helped by the UWV. There are a lot of good and involved people working at the UWV. We shouldn't forget that. D these people should be allowed to do their job in good conditions and with good ICT. I have one final comment, but I'll make it after the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	You'd better make her that final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	It's very short. I'll make it after, that's nicer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	Oh. Okay. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	Full of anticipation beats our hearts!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	The herb nuts are already in the shops, so it's apparently the time of year. I have a question for Mr Wiersma. His first comment was: if you're looking for a job and you don't apply, you get the UWV on your roof, but if you're in jail, you get money. It was something like that. He then made a plea with the PVV for a tough approach. Do you also think that this tough approach to people who simply commit fraud should not be at the expense of people who are simply entitled to benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	Okay, clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	I thought, now comes the difficult question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	I think this is a fundamental point. Because we see that many of the regulations that we have are best focused on repression: in principle, they are based on abuse, they have to be reported. UWV employees need to finish whole check-in lists. Can't we turn it around radically? We assume that the people who come to the UWV are basically for the good. We're also gonna look at the arrangements that have to work. I mentioned the example of the Wajong: the lady would very much like to take first steps, but the scheme is actually holding her prisoner. This requires a different approach, that is to say, thinking on the basis of trust. Is the VVD willing to go that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	Now you're suggesting that we didn't go down that road, but that's bullshit. In situations like that, it's crap to look first at regulations and then what people can do. That would stop people from throwing out everything they can, would be a shame. What we are talking about here, in this case, I hope that Mr Van Dijk means that we might not be able to trust the people who are now going to prison. The crazy thing is that in the system we give them super confidence, because they can report themselves if they actually do not get benefits anymore. Well, they don't. How can we make sure they do? And how do we make sure that the UWV is splashed on immediately, if it is really wrong that it turns out to be very often that it withdraws that benefit and so not let the community take the fall for the people in prison? That's trust, too, and that's gone. Then I'd rather we say, if you go to jail, we'll stop your benefit by definition, then we'll start investigating if you actually deserved her. I'd rather turn around than trust those criminals because they don't report it themselves. I think that we should fundamentally re-examine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	I think we'll find each other in this. Of course, enforcement when it comes to combating all abuse and fraud needs to be regulated much better. There is also a need for tough action. On the other hand, when it comes to service provision, we need to make arrangements in such a way that it helps people to take that step to work, rather than keeping people captive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	"VVD's screwed up with UWV." "UWV leaked like a basket, steerless, not in control." Those are hard qualifications of a coalition party over an important governing body. I also read in this morning's newspaper some proposals made by the VVD. There must be reports and research on how the money is spent. That seems to me to be a good suggestion. I think I'm gonna support them. But are we going to stop the UWV from slipping again, that next week we'll be watching Newshour again and getting the next unveiling? Are you sure about that, Mr. Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr Jasper van Dijk and I, and the Minister too, I think, would very much like to say yes to that question. The qualifications you mention are not new. We mentioned them together. We were almost interchangeable in there, you might say. Never before has the consensus been so great. My appeal is also that that is necessary here. We have made a proposal together with Mr Gijs van Dijk, a motion which you have also supported, to fundamentally examine the future of the UWV. We want to see what is expected of people there, whether we can expect it or whether we need to adjust our expectations, adjust capacity or organise it in a different way. In addition, I think it is important to learn from what is happening now, because that might actually be the best lesson. There's a lot to learn. With regard to one aspect, namely ICT, we are already implementing major plans. That is why I said: I am simply not reassured. I think it's a good thing we're looking forward. Of course, there is a lot of good at the UWV when it comes to benefits. That's why I really thank those people, because if you work there, it's not easy what you get for you at birthday parties. Those people do a lot of good things with those benefits. They're gonna make it work. But there are also a lot of things that need to be improved. I hope to make proposals with you to make them better. Am I at ease? No. It would also be a shame if we were a parliament, because that is not our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	Interrupts must be short, and answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	Sorry, Chairman. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	The VVD is very strong when it comes to tackling fraud, benefit fraud and so on. Thieves need to be dealt with, and fraudsters need to be dealt with. I agree. But when it comes to the UWV board, the VVD is nice. I don't know exactly why. Mr Wiersma wants to focus on the future. That's what I want. I'm also curious about the scenarios this cabinet is making right now. But if you make such huge mistakes, if you do as badly as the UWV has done over the past year, then you should also be called to account as a board, I would like to say to Mr Wiersma. Shouldn't we as a parliament investigate the governance, organisation and emergence of the UWV? I'd like a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'm being put in a whole new role here. Thank you for that question, because I get it. It's a bug festival in a lot of areas, but not in a lot of areas either. I'm deliberately applying that nuance, but we're definitely not running away from it. Whoever's in the UWV doesn't make me... I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	Yeah, I saw you look. I'm here to condemn it if it doesn't go well and to solve it and make it better. We've spoken to people who are now responsible for it before. If it is necessary to do that again as a result of this case, then we must do it again with the people who have knowledge of it and can help us to understand what is going wrong there and what should be done better there. The minister's putting an extra driver on the side. He doesn't do that for nothing. I'm curious to know what the assignment is, but he will also have the intention of getting that board in a different direction and making them keep in touch with the Ministry and with us. We therefore support good proposals for this. We must continue to do this together, because we must also have a fundamental debate here. We must learn from the lessons of the past, but not just stick to the past; we must also look for solutions for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr Wiersma talks about the birthday parties and UWV'ers who may be having a hard time there. I think it is a good thing, in order to do them justice, that we do justice to this sensitive matter. Mr Wiersma did just one thing that, frankly, I didn't think was entirely correct and which, in my view, contributes to an unjustified image of people following this debate. They have just heard him say: with everyone in a benefit who doesn't cancel his benefit, it just goes on; have we gone completely insane? All the pieces show that since 2000 we have also checked that ourselves and people do not trust their blue eyes. There is a great deal going wrong; I agree with that. But I would appreciate it if Mr Wiersma could take that image back, so that it doesn't seem like we're all crazy here and say, if you don't report it yourself, nothing will happen. That's not true. Since 2000, we've been checking all the DJI files. There is a great deal going wrong, but you said yourself: I leave it entirely to them. I think Mr Wiersma, although I'm sure that's not his intention, is feeding a lot of people a care, which makes them think: what is this? The concerns are big enough if we stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	No, there's a backup at the UWV and it's got to work. He hasn't worked enough here. That was the point. I hadn't understood my own words that clearly. Finally, I would like to thank these colleagues in particular, because this is the last debate for me as a spokesperson in this beautiful policy area. The Netherlands is lucky to have these people involved. I'm grateful for that. Thank you for your cooperation and, above all, thank you to this Minister, whom I am very pleased with. That's a good thing to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	But you're still a Member of Parliament. So we run into each other all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	This isn't goodbye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u69	I'm gonna get you into trouble, but these people aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u70	That's it. Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is very important that the Netherlands can trust that taxpayers' money is well spent. Fraud involving benefits is therefore a disaster for the whole social system. It is important that we can trust each other that things are going well. A lot of questions have already been asked by colleagues, but have all these unjustified payments to prisoners been stopped? How much is involved in total? And can we recover all the benefits? We considered the letter of 2 September to be rather vague on this point. 50PLUS would also like an explanation as to why disability benefits and sickness benefits are stopped only one month after the start of detention, while a WW benefit is immediately discontinued. Does that make sense? Can the Minister explain that as well? Mr. Chairman. We have seen the problem of fraud here many times. In the case of checks at workplaces, inspectors may not actively ask the attendees about any benefits they have. That seems very strange to us, because in 45% of cases fraud is initiated by beneficiaries. So can you, as a government, control and enforce properly, quickly and effectively? What guarantees are there that this will happen? Do UWV and municipalities have sufficient capacity and manpower for this? Doesn't the experienced chance of getting caught, which has a declining trend, give a lot of thought? What can the Minister say about that? Strict enforcement of social security is therefore necessary as far as we are concerned. We want to prevent the majority of benevolent and benevolent beneficiaries from being demotivated and indeed criminalised, because that would be completely unjustified. Therefore, we ask that the findings of the research of the University of Groningen, Smart Enforcement, be used as a framework for the elaboration of the strengthened enforcement strategy. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Mr. Chairman. I would like to give another example of the fact that 50PLUS was found during a work visit, in which workers are completely frustrated and in which the law on benefits is well enforced, but the situation is very serious. Since 1 January 2019, forensic patients in forensic care no longer have to pay their own contribution for the costs of staying in an institution and retain their benefit. Tbs who have been declared completely insanityable thus retain their benefit and we pay for it. So they're building up a payout of €1,000 per month. If you get out of there after a few years, you'll have quite a lot of capital. So the taxpayer pays twice there. I know this is not the area of this minister, but if you talk like that, we have been at the Rooyse Switch. I would imagine that those prisoners say: we come home after three years with less income and we see how this is looked at. Our taxpayers' money is not well spent in this way. I can imagine that this also attracts the attention of this coalition and this cabinet. I would very much like an undertaking from this Minister that he will discuss this with the Minister for Legal Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said and I do not think that there is anyone in the Chamber who does not look with great indignation and, above all, great concern at the fact that it is far too often and for a very long time gone wrong with the agreement that a prisoner does not receive benefits. In fact, we have regular debates here about the implementation and the mistakes that are being made. Let us also be honest; those mistakes will remain. I heard Mr Smeulders say that the next incident raises a new question. But I think we all know that mistakes will be made in large implementation organisations. It will remain that way, no matter how well everyone organizes it. In previous debates, I have often asked to look at ourselves as a political one. Did we make the rules work? Are you sure this is gonna work? Let me give you an example of the specific case of benefits abroad. We know that people who are abroad in prisons and do not report to the consulate for assistance simply do not come into the picture. I think it has been said from the beginning that we could not get it 100% covering there. So let us not pretend today that we could have done that. We knew that back then. Mr. Chairman. Very often I am one of those who say here: we have done it ourselves for the most part. But I have to admit that I am very critical of this case, because a number of mistakes have been made here, which I find really incomprehensible. It's something that's been going on for seven years and the system is still the same bottleneck. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs says that the Social Insurance Bank has not signed a covenant, so I simply for three years do not provide the data of prisoners abroad who have requested consular assistance. For three years. I guess nobody's gonna ring the bell. So I often stand up for the performance, but I find this really incomprehensible. This is different from the WW fraud. I found that incomprehensible, but that was partly because we took too much risk of abuse in the search for easy services. In my view, there are just a number of operational errors here, which I do not understand. Mr Wiersma used very harsh words for that. I choose other words, but I note that I find this very worrying. As far as I am concerned, this is not just about the mistakes we make, but also about the fact that we sometimes ask too much and have too little money to do so so that it can happen properly. This is really a bug festival. At the end of the day, I'm gonna tell the Minister to fix this. That may sound easy, but I'm serious. The letter also says he's working on that, and I'm gonna give him that space. On behalf of my group, I can also do the IRS in this house. I really think that with all our criticism we should appeal to the Minister and keep him sharp, but not sit on the Minister's chair, let alone on the chair of directors or individual staff of the UWV. Because then it's really gonna be a mess, if we're gonna be micromanaging here. Then it's gonna be a real mess. We are going to have a much wider debate on the UWV, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he really expects to have a clear picture of how many people it is and whether it is waterproof in a few months' time. And what about, for example, those inmates abroad who simply cannot do this? Let's just say that, and let's just say that again. And what about the recovery? Mrs Palland, whom I congratulate on her beautiful, personal maiden speech, rightly drew a lot of attention to this. A second thing that struck me when I read the pieces, I don't want to remember you either. This is broader about the implementation. Again, not very big mistakes have been made; no misunderstanding about that. But I thought, "How hard can it be to stop inmates' benefits?" And then you read the pieces with boxes of laws that are all just different and that need to be checked manually. 'Cause it's true: if you're in law enforcement, you can keep your benefit and not in other cases. Sometimes it happens immediately and sometimes in the first month. In Mrs Van Brenn's example of the TBs, I am curious to hear the answer. They are all chains of monthly reports that are hung together to have guarantees again. Then I thought, "What's a complexity coming from something that you initially think shouldn't be so difficult?" For us, the question is how to make this easier. The Minister rightly said earlier that we need to look at the implementation. Mrs Palland asked if he could reflect on that, and I wholeheartedly endorse that. But in this particular case, above all, this must be closed. Where that is not possible, we have to be honest, but for a lot of cases we thought we had it well arranged but it remained because of mistakes. That's where I expect a quick solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we end up at the ruins of the UWV part so much. Again, instead of the UWV or the minister himself, it was Newsage that comes with shocking facts and shows what's wrong again. And again, it was Newsage that comes up with these shocking facts from which abuse of our social security comes out, our social security. The minister is ultimately responsible, but somehow he was probably okay with the fact that criminals from the Netherlands and abroad were just getting benefits all along. After the benefit fraud by Polish migrant workers, it is now the prisoners, so to speak: criminals; we are talking about convicted criminals who, due to inadequate control, are wrongly paid thousands of euros in benefits. In this way, the minister sponsors criminals indirectly through the UWV. Here's how it goes. Mr. Chairman. I can see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u76	You have only just begun, but Mr Van Weyenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u77	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Whoever claims proves, I've always learned. Mr De Graaf just said that the Minister deliberately made these mistakes, even more so, that he was happy with them. I really think that's bullshit, but that doesn't surprise me. But if you say, you prove. So I'd like a piece of evidence, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u78	I will repeat my sentence: the Minister is ultimately responsible, but he was certainly fine with it all along. There's "sure" in that; that's not a statement. The Minister himself will be able to explain later whether he was okay with it, which is in the sense that criminals at home and abroad were simply paid benefits. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u80	Maybe it's a language thingy or something. Perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg has just heard something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u81	No, no, Mr. Chairman. I should have known better than to stand here with Mr De Graaf. The point is that I do not think it is proper in a debate where we are all outraged. Mr De Graaf is talking about his own words, but he implies that the Minister thinks this is all a party. That's just a little debate trick. No one here thinks it's a party. Mr De Graaf can rest assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u82	Proceed, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u83	I think it's a party to be a people's representative. Of course, it is not a party to have to talk about this, as Mr Van Weyenberg said, but it is part of our work, as the Minister is ultimately responsible and has to put things in order. That's the Minister's job again. I had stayed with: it goes like this. Convicts who receive a benefit must report to the UWV themselves that they are going to prison. Now let's hope that happens. Justice also reports to the benefit body of all new detainees. At that time, the UWV must check whether there are prisoners who receive a benefit and that is where it goes wrong. Employees of the UWV have done at least five investigations into the problem in recent years. The board also knew about it. And according to the reports, one of those five own investigations shows that the 2,200 inmates with benefits failed to stop that benefit 550 times. Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP also mentioned it. That's a quarter of the cases. Then what's it about? Examples from Newsuur's coverage. A prisoner convicted of drug trafficking and had to pay back $102,000, because he was no longer entitled to his WAO. Another prisoner had to return €24,000 to prison after nineteen months, while according to his lawyer this person was even registered at the prison address. So he was registered to the prison address. Then alarm bells should ring anyway, I'd say. Tens of thousands of euros of wrongly received benefits, just for these two examples, and that is a gross scandal. That has been mentioned before here in the Chamber today. If you think it couldn't be any crazier, the Minister's letter came this week in preparation for this policy. This shows that Dutch prisoners have also been wrongly paid benefits abroad. Probably even fugitive convicts have wrongly received benefits. We would like to be clear about that, because how on earth would that be possible? Fugitive convicts who receive unfair benefits. I will only repeat it for a moment, because it is, of course, too ridiculous for words. Where's the secretary's direction? That question has already been asked by several people, so I don't really need to repeat it. How many prisoners are involved, I ask the Minister through the President. I am referring now to prisoners who have wrongly received benefits. What is the total amount unduly paid and how much has already been recovered and repaid? Are any of them perhaps also travelers to IS area or returned jihadists? This is a point that my colleagues have not mentioned today. That's okay, I'll do it. Are there any terrorists who get benefits and, if so, how many? And what are the amounts involved? I would like to hear the answers to these questions today. The minister's had enough time to figure it out. The recess is just over. Mr. Chairman. The PVV repeats it: the broom has to pass through the UWV. My question, therefore, is how many directors the Minister has called on in the meantime and what consequences he has linked to the wrong policy he has pursued. We're very curious. How many drivers have been hijacked and experienced consequences? Mr President, concluding. The revelations of Nieuwsuur show that we are really dealing with a huge problem, especially in the UWV. It is a mess, and I also mention the way in which the Ministry does not take action on this, with all the consequences for the confidence and thus the sustainability of our social security system. I therefore call on the Presidium once again to launch a parliamentary inquiry into the UWV debacle. I shall be tabling another motion for a resolution in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs a suspension of about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u85	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Before I start, I would like to congratulate Mrs Palland on an excellent maiden speech. Nice to have a new member of the Social Affairs Committee who puts so much emphasis on noabership; I must say it wrong as Rotterdammer, but I thought it was a nice personal speech. And welcome! In addition, Mr Wiersma had warm words. Yesterday I understood that Mr Wiersma is going to do something different in the coming period. Fortunately, I still see him as a spokesperson for integration in the coming period. So I'm not gonna miss him, literally and figuratively. Mr. Chairman. I'm about to have a short introduction and then I have four blocks, or actually three blocks. This concerns the detainees, the specific problem that is the cause of this debate, but a lot of questions have also been asked about the implementation in a broader sense and about the UWV, which is my third block. Finally, I have a few other questions. I'd like to start with a broader introduction. I am trying to keep that short, but there are a lot of questions that have been asked and I also think that I should answer them properly, as you are used to me. Today, with your Chamber, I am considering the benefits to inmates, or more specifically the daily implementation of regulations that ensure that no undue payments are made to prisoners. Let me put it first: any benefit that is wrongly paid is too much. Prisoners are not entitled to benefits, and that is not for nothing laid down by law. The same law stipulates that a prisoner himself is obliged to report that he is receiving a benefit. In order to check whether that is also the case, Mr Van Weyenberg said that a system of detention notifications has been set up between the Judicial Institutions Service, DJI, and the performers, UWV, SVB and the Intelligence Office that does this for the municipalities. Where work is done, there are mistakes and shortcomings, especially in the implementation of social security, where it often involves detailed legislation, large numbers, many changes and complex ICT and legislative systems. Having said that, mistakes have simply been made in this case which have also gone unnoticed for too long, and I very much regret that. Also, in the past, this is an issue that has been going on for a number of years, and it is not always the right balance between efficiency, enforcement and services. At the same time, several actions have been launched to resolve errors, improve data exchange and make implementation more robust step by step. The aim is always for me to achieve better execution and to correct the errors as quickly and as fully and correctly as possible. It is important today to get a well-shared picture of what is good and what is not good so that we can solve it. Today it is specifically about the implementation of social security in relation to detainees specifically, but indeed, as many of you have said, we see that implementation is under wider pressure. We are all asking for excellent implementation, while the infrastructure is also something we must be honest about in recent years. This calls for extra attention to be paid to implementation and consistency with policy developments. In this way, we can work together to ensure that implementation remains future-proof. I will come back to this later in detail, but I would like to say that I am working on this together with my colleagues from Finance and BZK, first with the focus on UWV, SVB, implementation and DUO, but also with the focus on government implementation in a broad sense. I now turn to the questions about the inmates. Before the summer, we spoke in Question Time on 4 June about these unfair payments to prisoners. In the letter of 28 June I informed your Chamber of this, and last Monday I sent you a supplementary letter in response to errors we found when we started digging deeper into this. Those experiences at the UWV led the Secretary of State and myself to look more closely together with the implementation into other bottlenecks surrounding benefits to inmates. I have found that the system of data exchange in the case of payments to prisoners really needs to be improved. Together with UWV, SVB and the intelligence agency, I'm going to look for solutions to come step by step to a process as final as possible, because that's just not the case now. In addition, deficiencies have been noted in the coincidence between detention abroad and the benefits of UWV and SVB. Data delivery has been resumed, but it should not have. As a general rule, I deal with the three separate subjects, namely detention in the Netherlands, detention abroad and fugitives. Then I will deal specifically with the questions you have asked. How could it have happened that for a few years some of the benefits to inmates have not been stopped? Premeditated. An inmate has to report it himself. That responsibility lies with the prisoner. He must also report it to the UWV or the SVB, or to the municipality. In addition, a system of detention notifications has been set up between DJI and the implementation organisations. Research carried out by the UWV showed that the reports were not correctly transmitted to the UWV cash-out division because the WW and disease law systems temporarily did not provide data to the system in which all benefits are recorded. The UWV has now initiated several actions to ensure that a good comparison of that data is made, so that this does not happen again. In my letter last Monday, I explained the state of play on these actions. When it comes to detention abroad, I also explained in last Monday's letter that there is a system between foreign affairs information and our welfare organizations. There has been no exchange of data between the Foreign Office and the SVB since mid-2016 due to the lack of an agreement between the two parties, in particular on privacy sensitive information. It is now closed and the data supply between Foreign Affairs and the SVB has resumed. In July, the UWV reported that for three months no detention reports from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning Dutch prisoners abroad could be processed by UWV. That too has been restored. Another problem is that of fugitives. At the beginning of August, I learned through the CJIB, the Central Judicial Collection Office, that there was an error in the migration of the police search register to a new register. By mistake, the persons with community service who have been converted into prison have not been included in that new register. So these are people who were first registered for community service, who had to go to prison, who are called 'volunteers', I say for the sake of completeness. For ten months, no correct file comparison could be made between the UWV, the SVB and the intelligence office. At the end of July, this omission was discovered and it was restored. Since August, persons with a commuted community service have been included in the monthly data exchange of the CJIB. 926 persons who have not previously been included in that data exchange shall be examined for the existence of unlawful overlapping of benefits. As Mr Wiersma rightly said, this is, of course, different from one situation to another. I sent you an annex with the letter of 4 June. This legislation is simply very complex and there are many exceptions. I'll come back to that in a minute. Mr Van Dijk asked me if I could give an insight into the measures taken. I did some of that in last Monday's letter. The UWV has launched a number of actions as a matter of urgency, both in the short term and in the longer term. In the short term, it is mainly about improving the current process, e.g. a system of logging and monitoring the entire chain for handling detention notifications, so that it becomes as close as possible, for example through drop-out lists, i.e. by manually picking up reports that fail in the system and making that comparison. In addition, additional comparisons are made of detention notifications. Bank accounts in the name of the penitentiary institution have been examined and the UWV maps out whether beneficiaries are registered in the BPR, the Basic Registration Persons, at the address of a prison. The UWV also gives priority to recovery. Based on newly delivered data from the DJI, what can be recovered will be considered. Then it's just about a file equation. Just for the longer term, the UWV, together with DJI and Justid, is now engaged in an implementation organisation.................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Van Palland asked... sorry, I keep making the same mistake. Mrs Palland of the CDA asked why these recoveries are so carefully formulated. That's right. I deliberately formulated it carefully in the letter I sent to your Chamber. I've asked UWV and SVB to do everything in their power to recover the wrongly paid benefits. For this purpose, UWV and SVB must first determine which benefits have been unduly paid. This also has to do with the whole list of exceptions that are possible in the laws and regulations. What crime did you commit? What's the reason you're in jail? For example, do you have an anklet sentence? If you have an ankle ban punishment, you're not in the home of custody and you don't have a room and board. Well, then, the benefit will go through. Those are things that need to be sorted out before you can recover. Within the legal possibilities, therefore, the UWV recovers. A limitation period of 20 years shall apply. That's a long time. In addition, UWV has five years to set up a recovery from the moment UWV knew or could have known that too much benefit had been paid. That is the guarantee that such a claim will not be made. But we do have to take the laws and regulations into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u87	I have a quick question. What is the duration of the recovery action? Is this the period in which the systems have not worked sufficiently? So 2014 to 2018? Is that the period, or is it wider?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u88	Unfortunately, there are different periods. UWV is about WW benefits and sickness benefits. At the same time, we see different periods in the exchange between the State Department and SVB when it comes to detention abroad. A lot of different mistakes have been made, with different benefits. That is why I also said that file comparisons are now being made on the basis of what has been reported by DJI to the implementing authorities in recent years, to see if there has been an error there. In the second term, I will deal specifically with the question of what years a comparison is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u89	I ask because of the investigations we received from the Minister the earliest was about 2011. There are indications of errors made in the period before 2011. The Minister talks about a 20-year statute of limitations. So it could also be 2009, 2008 or 2007. I think that would be wise, too. The point is that the recovery action does have that scope and is not too limited. Because I think there is a lot more money involved than just on the basis of that mistake and that period. Hopefully, this is about most of the mistakes, so that we can get the most out of it. But it's also about the period before that. I'm not comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u90	Neither can I, and I can't rule it out. I shall come back to the question of what time limit is being looked at in the second term. However, once again, when it comes to the case law and the examples of cases where systems have been really out of place or where there has been no data supply, it is about a defined period of time. In 2011 there was of course a reason for that investigation. I agree with Mr Wiersma on this point. In 2014, there was another investigation. But I'll get back to you in a second. Several questioners, Mr Jasper van Dijk van de SP, Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr De Graaf asked about the size of the recovery and the amounts involved. Is it the tip of the iceberg now? Following on from Mrs Palland's question, we are now very well figuring that out, given the legal care. I wrote earlier in the letter to your Chamber that I will give an overview at the end of this year, at the stage of implementation in December. How many benefits are we talking about? What can be recovered? What has been wrongly paid out and what has not been wrongly paid out? There are examples of this, for example, that there has been a detention report, which subsequently showed that it was justified that a benefit had been paid. So I can inform your Chamber later this year, before the end of December, of the specific size and the amounts involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u91	Very briefly, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u92	I asked about the top of the iceberg. That's wider than benefits. In Monday's letter, the Minister wrote about this in relation to the SVB. For example, I also asked about the assistance and the municipalities. Is that what the Secretary of State is taking on board in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u93	As I said in my introduction, we have the data delivery via the UWV, the SVB and the intelligence agency. The Information Office is the executive body for the municipalities, which makes the file comparison between welfare benefits, or rather the participation law payments. We as a government have no information about that. Its implementation lies with the municipalities. Of course, we know what we share with the municipalities. But it is the responsibility of the municipalities to keep the benefits under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u94	That is understandable, but I hope that the Minister himself will also consider, when he hears this answer, that it is unbelievable to believe that in the municipalities everything went well when we see here that things have gone wrong at the UWV and the SVB. He can't go over it, but can we still use contacts with the municipalities, the agreements we have with them and search through the VNG for an opportunity to identify with them what may have gone wrong there? This is how we get a look at it and it is necessary, because it would be a shame if we were to overlook community money now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u95	To avoid a misunderstanding, I agree with Mr Wiersma. I agree with that and I would also like to ask the VNG if it can investigate this in the municipalities. However, I would like to emphasise clearly that it is also a responsibility of the municipalities. I would like to have it mapped out and I therefore agree with Mr Wiersma immediately on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u96	I would like to join with the Prime Minister's commitment to Mr Wiersma, among other things to ask the UNG to follow that up and to come forward with a report at the end of the year. Can the Minister immediately include in that report the question I have asked about travelling IS-ers, returning IS-ers, who are imprisoned and perhaps also receiving benefits, and jihadists who otherwise receive benefits? Can he take them all with him in that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u97	I certainly want to include in that report whether there are any signs of that. I honestly say I don't know, but it could be. I would therefore like to take this into account in the state of implementation in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u98	I find this link with the Participation Act interesting, because the Cabinet is, of course, simply system responsible for the Participation Act. I would therefore like a letter from the Secretary of State on this particular point. Then she can arrange it with the VNG, because I think it's serious enough. If we do get that letter, I would actually like to have an overview and a little reflection on how it could have been left between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Social Insurance Bank for three years. So I would like to put an exclamation mark behind Mr Wiersma's question by saying that I do not just want to look at the VNG, because the cabinet also has its own responsibility. I would therefore like a letter from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u99	I have just promised that I would like to ask the VNG, but that goes through the Secretary of State, because the Secretary of State is, of course, responsible for the welfare law, the Participation Act. I think it is a fair question, and I just want to give it my word. This will indeed be done through a letter from the Secretary of State to your Chamber, because the Secretary of State is responsible for this. But in the end, of course, we're all responsible for the execution, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u101	And by "together," I mean not only the Cabinet, but also your Chamber. Mr Van Dijk asked about the fines. I also have to say that the investigation is still ongoing in many cases, mainly in order to establish whether something has been wrong. So that too will come back to your Chamber in December in the state of execution. I believe I promised this on 4 June in Question Time and on 28 June in the letter I sent you. Mr Wiersma rightly asked to keep the whole process under review. That's what we're gonna do. We are already working on this, but in addition to the short-term recovery, it is also important for the longer term to make the process as watertight as possible. This is indeed about the process of data exchange, the processing of data and the possibilities that Mr Wiersma rightly said in order to make it easier. It is true that we need more clarity in this respect. If this shows that, for example, an amendment of the law is needed to achieve that, then I will certainly look into it. I am in favour of this, because it could also help the implementation very much. Mr Van Weyenberg asked how the SVB did not have a covenant with Foreign Affairs and that the Ministry of Social Affairs did not know that. That question is actually a bit in line with the interruption that has just taken place. It is quite simple: the need and urgency of the covenant with Foreign Affairs have simply been neglected. It didn't have enough urgency. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that this is simply a mistake. Due to the absence of such a covenant, the Foreign Office stopped providing the SVB with data in mid-2016. I understand that in itself when there is no covenant or a proper agreement on how we deal with privacy-sensitive data. Of course, as a government, we simply have to deal with this properly. If such a mistake is made by two government organisations, then that is really very stupid, to put it bluntly. It should have been different. In the meantime, the SVB has concluded a covenant with the State Department and the data provision has resumed. As a result, the overlapping of the benefits of prisoners abroad can also be terminated where necessary. Mr Wiersma had a few questions about the information provided by the DJI. Can more information be provided so that the implementation becomes clearer what we are talking about? UWV looks together with DJI at how to improve the information, so that the check at the UWV can indeed be made easier. DJI is also willing to exchange more information with UWV for the check if necessary for the processing process. In that sense, that really is an improvement. It remains incredibly complex, given the different legal bases, exceptions and that kind of thing. So we have to look at that too, as I have just indicated. Mr Wiersma also asked, following the previous question, whether DJI could also give more information to the prisoner. An inmate receives information from DJI when he is reminded of his obligations with regard to his benefit. In itself, therefore, it is already common practice to draw the attention of the prisoner to this fact. In principle, the prisoner himself is responsible for stopping the benefit, but the practice is, of course, that this does not always happen, because people are busy with other things, namely that they are being taken to prison. But it is already being done in the information system, so that is not where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u102	I see Mr Wiersma, but I would suggest that you first...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u103	This block ends. Yes, that's good, Mr. Chairman. Mr Wiersma also asked whether there is a central direction on the researchable signals. How does that actually work was his question. The signals from DJI are received centrally and distributed to the various district offices in the country after a comparison with current benefits. In this case, it is assessed by law and regulation whether the benefit is to be terminated. In addition to the centrally-led recovery action over the past period, additional measures are also being taken for the future. Within the maximum retention period of thirteen weeks, a second comparison is now carried out to prevent missing detention notifications. For example, as I wrote in the letter, it could be that when DJI makes the notification, there is no benefit because it is still in the process. For example, a month later there may be a benefit. Also to close that hole we have a second barrel in it to check it again after thirteen weeks. We're gonna add it now. A question on ICT systems was then asked on this specific point. Until 2022, all kinds of systems will be replaced. Is it true that the specific system for inmates is not part of this, and why is that? We have the UIP, the UWV ICT programme, the multi-annual investment programme for ICT, which will also inform your Chamber. The ICT of the UWV must always be adapted to the new developments in legislation and insights. That's actually a landscape that's never finished. The reality is that ICT is currently a scarce capacity, and there is a constant need to make choices between keeping the service in order and the ongoing process, on the one hand, and the timely renewal of ICT, on the other. As you know, for example, the UWV chooses to freeze a "street" once in a while, as it is called, for example, the WW benefits or the WIA payments, to allow those concerned to carry out the ICT renewal. Since 2016 this has been enshrined in the UWV Information Plan, the UIP. Stability, continuity and information security are the top priority. UWV is now exploring the replacement of the referral index, the specific point to which Mr Wiersma asked. Whether it should be a component will be included in the UIP of 2020, i.e. next year. By the way, the UIP is shared with your Chamber. I also know from the UWV that there is always the willingness to ask questions such as what the ICT investment programme looks like and what is on the role for the coming period, to explain to your Chamber in a technical briefing. If your Room invites the UWV, you will always be visited to give an explanation. By the way, that was shared with your room. That's what your room has received. Mr Wiersma and Mr Jasper van Dijk asked about the updating of the system. I have just said that an exploration will be done by the UWV to possible replacement of the common referral index system, the GVI. Only the system itself, although old, is not the core problem. The key problem here is simply lack of control, clear agreements and ownership between the different implementation organisations. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the foreign affairs system for prisoners abroad was waterproof. No, that's the answer. At the time, in 2014, the choice was made to set up the process on the basis of data available at the Foreign Office. Foreign Affairs registers data of people who end up in prison abroad and apply for consular assistance, which means that they are also in contact with the embassy staff of the Netherlands abroad. This information is provided by the State Department at SVB, UWV and the Information Office. This is also included in the explanatory memorandum of the relevant bill, that it is indeed not a final approach because not all Dutch people who are in prison abroad also have contact with the embassy staff of the Netherlands abroad. The assessment made at the time by the then cabinet and also by the then Chamber is that, because of the limited size of this group and the obligation to inform the prisoner himself, the risks were reduced to acceptable proportions. Mrs Van Brenk mentioned a concrete example from her work visit about the difference between people in an institution and people with TBs. A distinction has been made in the legislation between people who live in an institution, for whom they are indeed reimbursed for their living and living, and those who are outside and who have to provide for their livelihoods, who therefore also have to pay the rent in a manner of speaking. That's the deal that was made. In this particular case, I do not know exactly whether these are people who are actually in custody and in prison. The law doesn't want that to happen. So if you'd like to send the signal to me, I'll make sure it gets to the Minister of Justice and we can look at it together. So please deliver that information to me. I just talked about the fugitives. In fact, it concerns 926 people who have been wrongly excluded from the files that have been sent in the last ten months, and a community service has been converted into a prison sentence. By the way, for those who are no longer fugitives, but who are behind bars, the benefit will eventually end on the basis of the daily data exchange with DJI. At the last minute I received preliminary figures from the SVB. An initial analysis of the SVB showed that there were eight cases of overlapping with benefits. The SVB shall conduct further consultations with the CJIB before proceeding with recovery. The last question in this block, Mr. Chairman. It belongs to Mr. Jasper van Dijk. What is the reason why at the end of benefit detention is not mentioned? The annual report of UWV contains a number of reasons for the termination of the benefit in the case of several benefits. It is true that detention is not mentioned as a separate category. That's under the heading other than that. I would like to add this heading for the future, so that it is included in the overview. I'm going to talk to UWV about whether they want to include that in the annual report. Those were the specific questions about the inmates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u104	Short question, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u105	The Minister is right to say that the exchange of information should be improved. I am also pleased with a number of steps he is going to take, that DJI may be able to give more information and that there will be a check after thirteen weeks. That's very good. At the same time, I hear the Minister say that the system, which is a common referral index, is not so much a technical problem. I am very curious whether this system is being used for more than just these reports and how it can stand still for two years undetected. That's what I call a problem. I wonder what the cost of keeping this system in the air is and why the consideration is not to replace it. 'Cause I think that's a weird trade-off, I'm telling you the truth. Would the Minister like to take another look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u106	I'm sure I'd like to take a look at that. However, as far as I understand it now, the common referral index is actually an old system that was used when the UWV was set up from the five implementing organisations, such as the GAK, USZO and the Social Fund for Construction. It was precisely then that a control mechanism was set up to prevent people from receiving double benefits if they went to another implementation organisation. That's the origin, that's where it came from. Now it's only used for these detention reports to see if there's a coincidence of benefits. But I think it's a fair question and I'm taking him with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you for that, because I think there are two Achilles heels in this: the process, which is complex, which the Minister just said he was going to make some improvements to it and that he was going to investigate it. But I actually hear him say very little about the IT systems. He says the room can invite the UWV. I am sure all of that is true, but I think we should all take it better, and we simply did not do that. So I welcome the Minister's commitment to look at this more closely and to include the Chamber in it, so that we can take a better look at it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u108	I didn't mean to say that. It wasn't meant to be some kind of you-bracket to the Chamber. The only thing the General Court, for example, was positive about in that study two years ago, is that at UWV there is a very planned approach to replacing that vulnerable ICT infrastructure in that UIP (UWV Information Plan). This is a very complex process, because it concerns many complex ICT systems and an outdated environment, where continuity must be guaranteed, because if people are dependent on benefits, they must be able to receive them, against a background of staff shortages and scarcity of ICT capacity. That's a really complicated puzzle. All I said was that the Chamber has been informed several times about that UIP (UWV Information Plan), that I would like to take your Room into all these ICT changes, that I know that the UWV summit has talked to you a number of times about that UIP last year, so for my time still, and that it's kind of a standing invitation, in the sense that they like to come to your Room to explain what's going on there. This is unrelated to the point that we should indeed take a critical look at whether, for example, the GVI should be replaced. That is why this is included in the UIP of 2020. That's all I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u109	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u110	I didn't want to do a you-cake. Then I come to the third block: the wide version. There's a lot to say about that. I'm gonna focus on the UWV first and then I'm gonna go wider. After the incidents of the past period, I have had strong discussions with the board of directors about steering and supervision within the UWV. We have, as you know, launched various studies, for example on culture. Just before the summer recess, I sent you a whole bunch of letters about all the actions that have been launched in relation to culture, the fraud of WW benefits by migrant workers, many facets that have emerged over the past period, including, for example, the strengthening of the Audit Committee, which I announced earlier to your Chamber. That Audit Committee will have a stronger supervisory role and will consist of external members. The chairman shall also be independent. That used to be the chairman of the board of directors. Together, we, the chairman of the board of directors, the UWV and myself, have noted that this is an undesirable situation. So we're going to replace it with an independent president. It also looks more at different aspects of the functioning of the UWV. We have also taken a step in professionalising and intensifying risk management in the relationship between the UWV and the Ministry of SZW. I have already said, including in the case of Poland's fraud, that the implementation has been very often carried out either by UWV or by SVB. There has actually been too little connection between this house and the execution, between them in the Ministry of SZW. I want to change that, too. A new balance is being struck between services, efficiency and enforcement. I very much agree with the words of Mr Smeulders, who said: beware that you do not go ahead, that it is only about enforcement and that you end up in the same situation as we, for example, have seen in the Tax Administration over the last few months, where really painful situations had arisen. So, as I mentioned in my letter, it is constantly looking for a balance between these two aspects: implementation and services. Because indeed Mrs Van Palland said it is also the calling card of the government, the contact... Sorry, now I said it again! Mrs. Palland. Mrs. Palland said it. I'm gonna practice on it one day, and then I'm gonna hope it's okay after that. The contact between citizens and the government takes place through these large implementing institutions. If things go wrong there, you can just start to distrust them. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. That is an incredibly important point of attention, also for me, in this whole process of improving the situation at the UWV. We have also improved the provision of information to the Chamber, including the introduction of the alert letter I sent you before the summer. Several implementation organisations have identified signs of fraud and abuse. That was sent to the Chamber to give you an insight into that too. Once again, the Chamber was often informed in general terms and specific fraud phenomena were not appointed. There were justified reasons for this. You could make life easier for fraudsters. At the same time, it also ensures that there is too little insight into what exactly happens in the implementation. I would like to add that measures take time. Many measures have been taken and announced, but they need time to enter into force. It is about complex systems and complex laws and regulations. There are 18,000 people working at the UWV. I think it is important that Mr Wiersma, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg also say that the people who do the work at the UWV have the confidence that they are doing their job well. Mrs. Palland said it, too. I've also looked into where I can support the organization to do better. I have spoken a lot with staff from the UWV over the past period who were really addressed at such a birthday party and had the disease in mind, while in many cases they are doing a very good job. I have also decided, before the summer, to temporarily extend the board of directors to include a fourth member. This starts on 1 October and has the specific task of strengthening and improving the risk policy of the UWV. The fourth paragraph should accompany actions initiated and strengthen the focus within the organisation on implementation issues, so that the information can be shared earlier with the Ministry, with me, and through me with your Chamber. I would like to point out that changes take time. Mistakes will continue to be made. But the whole set of measures that has been put in motion gives me the confidence that there is a good development going on right now. This is also necessary for confidence in implementation. Some of you rightly said that if social security benefits are being cheated, the axe is at the root of solidarity. We must maintain trust and restore it wherever possible. That is my general introduction and I now come to a number of specific questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u111	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u112	No, Mr President, I have a number of specific questions to answer: about six, eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u113	Also from Mr Jasper van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u114	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u115	Let's do it first, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u116	All right, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u117	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mrs Palland and Mr Van Weyenberg also asked whether with increased supervision this issue would have come to light earlier with the detainees. That is one of the reasons why I strengthened the audit committee and made it more independent. The organisation of the UWV and in particular the management aspects are now being looked at with a critical look inside, so that these kinds of signals come out faster. Incidents, imperfections and errors can never be completely prevented. It would be a fairy tale if I promised. Closer supervision can still help to limit this in the future. That is why I chose to do so. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked if I agreed that the UWV made a mess of it. Do you share this image? We have had this debate before. I would like to emphasise that a lot is going very well. The General Court of Auditors wrote a very positive report on this in 2017. The National Ombudsman has also stated that the development of services to people is a very positive one. I included that in my letter to you. This also applies to the development of more personal services, to the mentoring of people. I have fully acknowledged that mistakes have been made with regard to the export WW and also with regard to this situation. I think it is my responsibility to tackle these problems and to avoid them as much as possible in the future. Against this background, I do not share that view, but I have had this debate with Mr Jasper van Dijk before. The combination of the improvement actions I used together with the board of directors of the UWV gives me the confidence that we are really on the right track and can take steps forward. Do I say to Mr Smeulders that there will be no more incidents? No, I'm not saying that. I wish I could promise that, but I can't promise that because it's also human work. Mistakes will be made in such a large organization. It is mainly about whether there are sufficient checks-and-balances in the system, in the board of directors, in the audit committee and throughout the organisation, and whether the culture................................................................................................................................................................. That is the challenge we face. I feel very committed to solving that together with the UWV in the coming time. In doing so, I also answered Mr Jasper van Dijk's question about the board of directors. I have just appointed a fourth member, who will start on 1 October, precisely in order to strengthen that risk policy and audit. Just a few more questions. I have already answered Mr Smeulder's question as to how likely it is that it will happen again. He also asked about the balance between enforcement and services. I think that is a very good and fair question from Mr Smeulders. You can now see that in the balance between the provision of benefits and enforcement, the emphasis has been too much on efficiency over the past few years. This is motivated, among other things, by cuts from the past. The targets that have been there in recent years have of course also led to reprioritisation within the top of the UWV. The focus has been on ensuring that people with benefits do not fall apart in crisis time. At the same time, we need to find a new balance between enforcement and efficiency and services. Together with the top of the UWV we are working to give it hands and feet. I think that was asking for the set. Finally, cultural research. I sent that to your room for the summer too. This research has been launched partly in the light of the debate we had with each other about the export WW and the signals that came out of the staff. Mr Jasper van Dijk's question, as well as Mr Gijs van Dijk's, was: how could UWV employees not do anything with fraud signals? Cultural research does not reveal that employees should not report them. What emerges from the research is that, according to the employees of the UWV, the focus is too much on production standards, so achieving the targets. There is indeed too little attention to enforcement. Such a signal from the organisation itself, from the employees themselves, is precisely the reason for us to look at this balance between enforcement, service provision and efficiency. The Management Board shall work on the recommendations contained in the final report of cultural research. Part of this is, for example, confidence in craftsmanship, based on the idea that UWV employees themselves should also be given more space to act when they consult with the clients, the people receiving benefits. They felt too much involved in the laws and regulations, so they didn't have enough room for that. I think it is very important to make more use of people's professionalism. That was block three, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u119	As far as I am concerned, the heart of the debate has passed in this block. That is the question: can we be confident that the UWV is doing well now? There have been considerable abuses in recent years, from WW fraud to abuses with inmates. I think it is a mess in that respect. The Minister doesn't think so. As far as I am concerned, that is at the heart of the debate. The minister said he had a number of solid discussions with the board, and he announced a number of measures. Can he give me a little more insight into these conversations? He hasn't convinced me that it's going to be okay with the UWV. What were those big conversations about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u120	I am not going to give Mr Jasper van Dijk any insight into that. I think, together with the UWV, that we are jointly responsible for improving the situation, not just the board of directors, but all employees. I also feel a great commitment to the board of directors to address these problems. There are some serious discussions, but they should take place between me and the board and not with your Chamber. In the end, I will be accountable to your Chamber as the final representative. But I think I should protect the organisation, because there are a lot of good things happening in the workplace and a lot of good things have been put in motion by the board of directors in recent years. That's up to me and the board of directors, and you can call me on that. I am sorry that I have not been able to convince you of all the good measures that we have put in place. I think that's the way forward to get out with the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u121	But this does make our work difficult. We are parliamentarians. We have to check the Minister. The minister is the boss of the UWV. The minister had a conversation with the UWV's board, and he says to us here: I'm not going to say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u122	So the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u123	So that makes our work very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u124	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u125	If next week we get another broadcast of Nieuwsuur with the next miscarriage, the minister will, so to speak, have another conversation, a strong conversation, with the board. But he's not gonna tell us exactly what he did. That's not gonna convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u126	I think this is a bit of a turnaround of the world. Mr Jasper van Dijk has now tabled a motion twice that I should dismiss the board of directors. I have said this twice, at least once, that I do not; I am going to solve these problems together with the board of directors of the UWV. So Mr Jasper van Dijk had already drawn that conclusion and has already tabled that motion. I didn't agree with that. Now I'm getting the reverse back. I find that a strange course... a strange reproach; let me put it this way. I'm ultimately responsible. Your room may appeal to me if it goes wrong. You do, in very strong terms. I understand that very well, because it is about trust in social security systems. I understand that very well. I'm having those good conversations with the UWV's board of directors. I'm responsible for that. Together, we're gonna solve those problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u127	Then I'm gonna... Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u128	Too bad I did not convince Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u129	There have been considerable abuses in recent years: WW fraud, inmates, medical assessments in which everything went wrong. It's a series of abuses. At some point it becomes very difficult to have confidence in the functioning of the UWV as a parliamentarians. Now the minister says, "I'm not going to tell you exactly what I'm talking about with the board." That makes it hard for me to do my job. I don't think I filed a motion to dismiss the UWV board. However, I have tabled a motion to conduct a parliamentary inquiry so that the Chamber can summon that board and hear it under oath. I did not get a majority from my colleagues, from the coalition in particular, so I have to go back to the Minister to call him to account. I still read in the newspaper that there are staff who say: I cannot do my controlling work when it comes to checking whether fraud is being committed. I quoted the NRC. How is the Minister going to convince me that such an employee can now get to grips with fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u130	I find that a strange reproach too, because I have just answered this question in connection with cultural research. It has indeed shown that there is no feeling among the employees that signs of fraud also end up in management and at the summit and that there is frustration about it. I recognize and recognise this point and share it with Mr Jasper van Dijk. This is precisely where the UWV's board of directors wants to improve the situation. That is precisely where we are working together to improve the situation. I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk: this is the way it should be. It must be the case that when the professional on the workplace sees that something goes structurally wrong, that ends up with the board of directors and that something is done with it. That's what the board of directors of the UWV thinks, and that's what we're doing. This has not happened sufficiently in recent years. This is also apparent from cultural research. But this is an example that we are working together to improve the situation at the UWV, also throughout the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u131	Two of my questions have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u132	I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u133	No, because you have another...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u134	About enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u135	Then ask me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u136	Perhaps you would like to briefly mention the two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u137	I had two questions. One was about the fact that inspectors may not actively ask the attendees for any benefits at workplace checks. How is that possible? Then how are we gonna make that chance of getting bigger? The second question was whether the Minister could promise me that we will use that research of the University of Groningen on smart enforcement as a framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u138	Good. The Minister will see if he can answer that question. Otherwise, he'll come back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u139	The second question is still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u140	Okay. Then you will be given the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u141	I don't have the first question here. I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u142	Do you have any questions that haven't been answered, Mr. Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u143	New questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u144	Then it's also the last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u145	The Minister gives a profit warning in relation to incidents. I know the Minister doesn't mean that as a doomsday. At the same time, I would like us to distinguish between incidents and foreseeable, long-term mega-blunders. That's what we've seen here. We saw signals in 2011. We saw signals in 2012. The Minister is now putting an extra director in there. That's what my question is about. Would it be possible to go through that extra driver, with SZW, just very well through all the research that the UWV has done to see what kind of signals have come up there? I can't do that in a day. I get that. We can do that to prevent the Minister and the Chamber from always standing in their shirt again when something comes up and we say again: we didn't know that. I'm actually done with that, and I think the Minister is totally done with that. So let's get all these tests together for a while. We don't need to know all the incidents, all the little things that need to be better. But I would like it if the Minister knew a lot more and then perhaps the Chamber could take it much faster. That is, I think, the fundamental point that we are not resolving in this debate, but that I do want to have resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u146	I hesitate for a moment, I say in all honesty. I share Mr Wiersma's point. That is why I have indeed appointed a fourth member of the Management Board. I want to improve that information. My second point, which is in line with Mr Wiersma's comment, concerns fraud phenomena, the alert letter. That's coming up from several investigations. The UWV conducts hundreds of investigations. It has said that this is a point of attention for implementation and that we must get to work on it. I have now asked the great performers to write that down and share it with your Chamber, also to get an idea of what we are talking about. In that sense, I agree with Mr Wiersma that this has already happened. I can't look over all the studies that went on until 2010. I don't know what I'm talking about. I will discuss it in a moment and come back to it in a second term. I share Mr Wiersma's view. Steps have already been taken there. It is precisely the combination of making the audit team independent, the fourth member of the board that pays particular attention to these issues and the fact that I have already announced an alert letter to your Chamber to share the signals with you, which indicates that I have done some serious work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u147	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u148	I'm curious to see how the Minister views it in the second term. We're all not gonna get away with it if this happens again, I think. We have the responsibility and I cannot see through these investigations. You do. You can get them on the table. You can ask to see if there are any big things in it that we may not yet have enough in view and share with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u149	For the sake of completeness: that is not the case either. And that is one of the statements I made earlier in the debate on the export WW. Over the past few years, I have been talking about the years around 2010 and there has been a great distance between the UWV and the ministry and therefore also between the UWV, the implementation in a broad sense, and your Chamber. It was indeed on the main lines and it was also the result of the execution. This is how the Chamber did the steering at the time. So a lot of independent investigations were done by the UWV that remained internal. They also did not reach the office of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think it should be different. I agree with Mr Wiersma. So we've already taken those steps. We also want to report from the UWV the signals that are there, the fraud phenomena or the ICT systems, to your Chamber, so that we know what it is about and are not always surprised. For the purpose of this, I am very much in agreement. Later I will come back to the question of what period it should apply and what we are talking about, because once again, hundreds of investigations are being carried out, from small to large.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u150	Research after examination. New appointment after new appointment. It all costs claws with money. But here's a minister who can be compared to a top trainer. That top trainer meets with his board and supporters not only to go for European football, but at least for the semi-finals of the Champions League. Then he degrades eight seasons in a row and we find him in the fourth class league. There won't be an audience, but the trainer's still there. In this case, that is not the minister himself; let me make the comparison that he is the director of that football club. But the trainer, or the bosses of the UWV, is still firmly in the saddle. In fact, there is also a doll to reverse the tide and to provide better information. This cannot be sold to the people who are rightly receiving benefits in the Netherlands because of the government's malpractice of recent years, or because they simply cannot work, or because they have left the labour market for another reason? This is where criminals run away with money. That's not the first scandal, it's just another. I fully agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that people need to be capitalised on this. The minister does have strong conversations and he has already been demoted twice with his club but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u151	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u152	But when are people being punished to set an example? In fact, one of the directors is just in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u153	As for the latter, at your service. I think Mr De Graaf's analysis is a very superficial one. I have already shared this point in the past, which is also a response to Mrs Palland's question on the broad implementation of the programme. In recent years, the implementation has had a lot to do with targets, staff shortages and the ICT landscape which is heavily outdated. But also when it comes to complex laws and regulations that must be implemented, but in practice they face all kinds of problems. I have already outlined at that time, especially in the debate on the export of the WW......................................................................................................................................................... I find that too easy to argue. This would also prejudice the complexity of the situation. It would also wrongly involve these people in solving the problems. So I've had those big conversations. I admit immediately that mistakes have been made. The implementation organisation itself admits that. My commitment is to correct those errors and towards the future it is aimed at good and efficient implementation in terms of enforcement, but also service. The services to people in the Netherlands who are in a difficult situation because they are unemployed, sick or unable to work, but who are always in a complicated situation, must be in order. But I do not agree with Mr De Graaf who thinks that the problem has been solved by firing someone. That's not the choice I made either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u154	The answer makes a lot of sense. My introduction needed a lot of words to outline the situation, because it is also complicated. But no one has been held personally responsible in this story. No one has been held personally responsible in the whole way. The Minister says that Mr De Graaf's analysis is a bit flat. But the answer I get, and the answer given earlier by the Minister, is: despite eight degradations, three players have developed reasonably. Yeah, we're not gonna get anywhere with that, are we? An example must be set. I admit that this has not solved the problem directly, but those responsible for these problems are still there. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u155	I find the comparison a very strange one anyway, because many aspects of the implementation of UWV go very well, for example when you look at the services. There have been incidents and mistakes. I fully acknowledge that. We're working hard to solve it. But it's very simple to say that the problem is solved if we fire a few people. Whatever makes us never have such a debate again, it's just not true. Nor should we maintain the illusion that we have solved the problems by doing so. I'd like to work with the board of directors of the UWV. By the way, over the past seven years there have been several people on the board of directors of the UWV who are no longer there. So it's just a snapshot. If you look at today's problems, it is about the period 2016-2019 and 2014; so several years. It just doesn't do justice to the situation and I also find it very distracting from my core task: how am I going to solve the problems and how am I going to make sure that the UWV works properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u156	We'll see when we get back here. Finally, a short question. If no one can be held responsible, are there perhaps people in the organization, low, high, executive or directly on the work floor, who may have links, linked to those who are wrongly receiving benefits? Are these people getting caught, like relatives of criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u157	I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u158	Has research shown or has it been under the cover of the carpet that there may be relatives of those criminals who accidentally work at the UWV and are involved in the case? Of course, it could just be that it's about such simple things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u159	Of course, I can never rule anything out, but I don't really understand the question. I have informed the Chamber that there has been an error in the transmission of data between DJI, UWV, SVB and intelligence agency and that therefore signals have not been included. That's a system error, a process error. There's not an individual there who didn't share that. That is why I do not really understand Mr De Graaf's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u160	I'm going back to the contents. I have just asked the Minister a number of questions about the relationship between services on the one hand and enforcement on the other. In my view, the Minister has responded positively, namely that we should continue to pay sufficient attention to this and that it should not just go to one side. The government agreement included 70 million, 40 million for the WW and 30 million for incapacity for work, to have more contact face-to-face and more focused on personal services. Can the Minister confirm that this money, which is precisely for services, will not be used to combat fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u161	The money that is used for this is used to improve personal services, yes. Moreover, as you may know, I have also provided a structural additional 7.3 million to improve enforcement. Mr Smeulders is now pretending to be a contradiction, but that is not always the case. It is precisely personal contact that can cause the UWV to signal that there is fraud. So it's not a contradiction. But I agree with Mr Smeulders that personal services are aimed at improving contact between the UWV and the job seeker and should help to find a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u162	I welcome the Minister's answer again. But I'm not asking that question for nothing. We can all suspect that it will cost money to restore everything that has happened at the UWV. For the time being, the Minister has asked no extra money for the UWV. I am curious what will happen to Princess Day. It is therefore quite a real risk that, if things are to be put right, it will be at the expense of something. I would be very sorry if it were at the expense of that very personal service, because I think we are quite happy that there is finally a budget for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u163	Now I understand Mr Smeulder's question. I agree with him. It is true that the recovery actions and also the address comparison we have made over the past period are very intensive. This requires capacity and costs. However, I think it is important that we do it and that we want to have this seriously investigated. I also agree with Mr Smeulders that this should not be at the expense of personal services, as we wrote in the coalition agreement. I have now made structuralally available 7.3 million for additional enforcement. I have the question at the UWV as to what is a good balance between capacity and enforcement, also here and also for the future. Mrs Van Brenk has asked this question before. This question certainly comes back in my contacts with the UWV in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u164	Please continue. I think you've come to the last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u165	Yes, the last part indeed. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked more broadly about the fraud report. A motion has been tabled on this matter before. The Fraud Board will meet for the first time on 19 September 2019. The executive services, such as UWV, SVB, VNG, Divosa, Inspectie SZW and the Tax Administration, come together every quarter to share that information with each other, for example, learn from each other, which phenomena we encounter as well as the dilemmas they encounter in enforcement. On 19 September 2019 is the first meeting and then every quarter. After six months, it is evaluated whether the composition is correct and what the results are. This fits in with a broader question put by Mrs Palland on work in implementation and on public confidence. I have said before that I very much agree with her. The pressure on the implementation organisation of the Empire is widely visible and really is not just about the UWV or the SVB. Think of the discussions about the CBR, DUO or DJI. This creates tensions with the legitimate trust of citizens in the government. I very much agree with Mrs Palland. At the moment, I work with BZK and Finance colleagues on a task to distinguish underlying generic causes from organizational causes. Let's just do a few generics: outdated ICT, staff shortage, ICT capacity and complex laws and regulations. However, there are also specific situations which are different for different implementation organisations. They're being mapped now. It would also look fundamentally at the role of politics and policy, i.e. the client, but also at the role of the implementation itself, and also at the need to take a look at the perspective of citizens and businesses. The lessons from the incidents and the good examples will be taken into account in order to really see how we can improve this implementation for the future. This analysis is starting this month. Before Prinsjesdag you will be informed. In this context, Mrs Van Brenk talked about Smart Enforcement, the research of the University of Groningen. The investigation is known to me. I share the conclusion that only hard enforcement is not a solution. Maintaining is more than just imposing sanctions and also consists of good information, the use of data exchange and personal services. That does not alter the fact that if people do not comply with the law, there are measures to be taken. Misuse of social services must be tackled in order to maintain the support for these services, as Mrs Van Brenk herself rightly said in her own term. Therefore, those who break the law must always repay the overpaid benefit and receive an appropriate sanction. This applies to both small and large offenders of the law. With the amended Fraud Act of 1 January 2017, UWV, SVB and the municipalities have more room to take into account the seriousness of the offence when determining the fine to be imposed, the financial circumstances of the parties involved, which is also really customisation. I think that is a good development, because it also allows the professional to make a good assessment of what we are talking about. Not all fraud is the same. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions that were asked. I will come back to Mrs Van Brenk's second question in the second term, which I have left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u166	All right, in the second term. Has there been a question left, Mr. Jasper van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u167	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a few things right first. The Minister has said that I have tabled motions stating that the UWV board should resign. I checked them all for a while, but I never filed such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u168	No, but you've already corrected that. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u169	Well, yes, the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u170	If that is the case, then I apologize, but I can remember a newspaper interview or another media statement stating that the board should be dismissed. If it wasn't a motion, I apologize. Perhaps I could look up the interview in question for the second term, so that I can still refer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u171	Okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u172	Now suddenly it's about newspaper interviews, but the minister was talking about motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u173	Oh, that's a whole different thing, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u174	Yes. What I have tabled a motion on, and that is what my question is about, is the request to study how the UWV can be reorganized. The Minister also refers to this; let me put it this way. The cabinet even wants to look at how to deal with implementation organisations in the broad sense. We will be informed of this before Princess Day, if I am correct. Scenarios are also mentioned, and I find that very interesting. I think it would be a good idea to take a fundamental look at that. Can the Minister give an update?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u175	Yes, for Prince's Day! We're working hard on that. In the spring note, the Minister for Finance informed us that we are working on the implementation. I just said something about that. This concerns the organisations I have just mentioned. There is also the fraud counsel, which starts next week. In addition, there is a fundamental analysis, as I have just outlined to Mrs Palland, of the wider questions about the implementation of the government, not just about UWV and SVB. You will be informed of this before Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Palland on her beautiful maiden speech. Welcome to this committee. I look forward to working together. And I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I started my story with: here we are again. I've asked the Minister to promise that we won't be back here very soon. I understand that he can never do that very hard, because if it does, it is very annoying. I also see that the Minister is doing a lot, along with the UWV. I wish him every success in doing so, and I fear that at the moment, as a Chamber, we can do little but rely on the people who are going back to work on social security for us. I do have a motion, Mr President, and I would like to read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are fundamental problems at the UWV;]] [[noting that various measures are being taken to combat fraud;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow the detection and handling of fraud to be at the expense of the services provided,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-582]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u178	With this motion, we really want to emphasise that people who are just entitled to a benefit should get it, and that we work in our social security system on the basis of trust and not just more distrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Palland. There were some nice passages in your maiden speech. I'll get back to you on that one. Mr. Chairman. I believe the UWV has a structural problem. This has to do with scale, with ICT, with an anxiety culture, with top-down governance. A consequence of this is lack of control. I have an example of a culture that really sucks. I've been informed that the UWV board is looking for the sources, the whistleblowers who went to Nieuwsuur. Does the Minister share my view that these whistleblowers should not be tracked down, but that they should be protected and that a statue should be erected for them? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a series of serious abuses about the functioning of the UWV over the past year, including fraud with WW benefits, as well as unjustified payments to inmates, have emerged;]] [[noting that the abuses were not revealed by the UWV administration itself but by the media;]] [[considers that the creation of the UWV and the functioning of the (old) UWV management should be examined critically;]] [[calls on the Bureau to set up a parliamentary inquiry into the creation and functioning of the UWV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-583]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr President, thank you. Thank you for the various congratulations I received from the Chamber for my maiden speech. Thank you also to the Minister for replying and addressing the concerns that live here widely. The Minister suggested that a technical briefing on ICT at the UWV be presented to the Chamber. I think this is a very good proposal, so as far as I am concerned, we are going to organise it. The Minister has also indicated that it is important that there are checks-and-balances in the processes of the UWV. He has taken or announced a number of measures to this end. Mistakes can never be avoided entirely, but the Minister himself has expressed the confidence that the way up has been found. That's what I'm helping him hope. We'll wait and see. As a CDA group, we consider it very relevant to look more broadly at the issue of implementation organisations. The Minister and BZK discussed this with him. Distrust in the implementation organisations gnaws at the confidence that citizens may have in the government. So we await the letter for Prince's Day with interest. I have one motion against the unfairly paid benefits. The Minister spoke about this, but I think it would be good to have the agreement on this with each other. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hundreds of UWV prisoners received a benefit to which they were not entitled;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the use of recovery actions and the adoption of improvement measures, every effort must be made to recover any wrongly issued euro;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate, in this context, which prisoners and fugitives have been wrongly paid benefits at home and abroad and to endeavour to obtain as much as possible of all wrongly paid benefits with this information;]] [[also invites the Government to send progress reports to the Court of Auditors at least as long as this takes, each six months, containing key figures, including the results of these recovery actions and the progress of the remedial actions undertaken and the improvement measures taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u182	Mr President, thank you. I actually had two questions, two motions and one wish, but I see that I have very little time left. I'm going to do those questions very quickly. The Minister would come back to the period of the recovery action, so I was curious to see how often a fine is imposed on average if a prisoner does not himself state that his benefit should be stopped. Then two motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that UWV wrongly provided benefits to detainees and that these errors did not come to light for a long time;]] [[Whereas more central management and less complexity could have prevented and corrected these errors more quickly;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how unfairly paid benefits to detainees can be brought to light more quickly and to make concrete proposals for improvement in this calendar year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-585]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u183	Second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rattling ICT systems have contributed to the unjust provision of benefits to inmates;]] [[noting that hundreds of millions will be spent on renewing the ICT systems at UWV in the coming years;]] [[whereas the Court has insufficient control over this major ICT operation;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the information position and direction of the Chamber in a structural manner, to ensure that there is sufficient external review and control of the whole operation and to provide regular reports to the Chamber on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-586]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u184	Mr President, I would like to end by expressing my wish. This is about the last point I brought to the attention of the Minister: if we can find out, we need to know. So my request is: pull the dust comb through everything that the UWV knows, so that we have the big signals in view there. They must at least be in the eyes of the minister, so that he does not get in his shirt again, because we will not get away with it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u185	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u186	Mr President, one motion and one clarification. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research carried out by the University of Groningen shows that the level of compliance in social security benefits not so much from "more" enforcement or merely "harder" enforcement, but above all from "smarter" enforcement;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to ensure that the majority of benevolent beneficiaries are not penalised and demotivated by more categorically applied harsher enforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to align the desired strengthening of social security enforcement policy with the findings of the above-mentioned research carried out by the University of Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-587]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u187	Mr President, not me but my group chairman, Mr Krol, went to work at De Rooyse Wissel. To make things even sharp, since 1 January 2019 forensic patients who have not been sentenced to prison no longer have to pay their own contribution. This means that they were then paid back thousands of euros. There was a big party with 15 of the 180 TBs inmates. As a result, there is a distinction and tax money is wrongly spent. That is also my question to the Minister: does the Minister see it that way? Is this wise? Shouldn't this be different? We understand that we will also have to raise this with another minister, but I would like to get an appreciation from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u189	Mr President, I have tried to put your words into practice on a few less motions. So I will not table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u190	I'm very proud of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u191	Mr President, you are making my day! This matter is serious and the Minister has announced a number of measures. We are actually waiting for a lot of figures; that was already in the letter. I trust that this will be done with full force. I look forward to the letter we're still getting about the municipalities and the Participation Act. In fact, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State could send that letter within a week or two before we discuss the implementation in a general discussion with, I believe, both directors. I'd find that useful information. Mr. Chairman. I've seen a lot of motions. I'm gonna take a good look at that. I hope we're careful we're gonna micromanage too much here. I really don't think that's good. I can see that danger. I understand the need for all colleagues to gain more grip. I do, too, but without us redeploying the day-to-day management of the people at the level of the board, the management board or staff. I really don't think that's gonna make it any better. Finally, Mr President. It's gotta be better now. The Minister started a project on implementation. That's what I like to hear, because the service needs to be improved. I also say to Mrs Van Brenk: I do not want stricter enforcement, I just want better enforcement. Moreover, I believe that better service provision and enforcement go hand in hand. As a politician, we have a responsibility to help our practitioners. I know that the same applies to Mrs Van Brenn. I see her getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u192	So I find you at my side for the smarter enforcement that the University of Groningen is offering us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u193	I need to take a closer look at that report, I'll tell Mrs. Van Brenk. But I am really convinced of the basic idea; in that context I found the debate between Mr Smeulders and the Minister interesting. That idea is: if you do better personal guidance, for example, it helps the benevolent and at the same time it is a threshold for the fortunately much smaller group of people who are malicious. So I think this is really going hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u194	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Finally, Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have now had a number of debates, it has been mentioned several times by my fellow Members, and yet I am afraid: not 100% glass, puddle, wax, but a very high percentage. I am afraid that we will be standing here for the next debacle in no time. It's been going on since 2011. Two things are important to be able to really move forward: not only a strong conversation, not only a number of investigations and adjustments, but above all the setting of examples: that's one thing: that's one thing, and two things are getting to the bottom of what really happened. As a parliament, we have a role to play in this. That is why I say to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP that we support the motion he has tabled. We have done this ourselves before, but I would prefer to have one motion that has a greater chance of being adopted than we can read afterwards that the opposition is divided and that one party votes against one and for the other. Then we're not getting anywhere. I therefore support Mr Van Dijk's motion. I've got another one myself. It is about the measures to be taken towards the people who have caused this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the former drivers of the UWV in question are held accountable between 2011 and 2018 and that appropriate consequences (including dismissal) are associated with their conduct of malpractice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-17050-588]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u196	In short, Mr President, I have taken over this debate from my colleague. I really have to go for another appointment, but we're definitely listening through the employee to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you. I'll see if the minister can answer right away. I understand he needs two minutes. Then we'll wait two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u198	I shall resume the meeting and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Before I move on to the motions and answer a number of questions, I would like to apologize to Mr Jasper van Dijk, because he did not literally say 'dismiss drivers'. He said 'cleaning up' and I had interpreted that in such a way, but that is my interpretation and it does not do justice to the words of Mr Jasper van Dijk. So I apologize for that, for the completeness. I thought it would be nice to do that. Indeed, I had interpreted the quote that the board of directors should be clean and I should not have done that. I shouldn't have referred to it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u200	You wouldn't have said anything like that, would you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u201	Exactly, before we get the wrong footage again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u202	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u203	We have to stay exactly. The Minister had said that I had already tabled two motions to replace the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u204	In my memory it was indeed the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u205	You apologized for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u206	I apologized for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u207	Yes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u208	Already, Mr. Chairman? First a few questions left, both from the first and from the second term. The first was Mr Wiersma's: over what period is the recovery operation under way? I just said that the problems with the systems that didn't communicate were at least there in the period 2014-2018. It's a priority right now. For the period before that, it has to be considered whether there is any point and whether there are any indications that there are problems there. The exchange with BZ and UWV and SVB concerned those three months in 2019 and for the SVB the period 2016-2019, in which there was no covenant. Generally speaking, the limitation period is 20 years. There is an extended term, so there can be longer looking back. For this, too, there must be a return to UWV client data and we cannot assess whether that is the case, whether we can carry it out and whether there are indications that something is going on. The priority now lies in the short term, in the recovery of these problems, but it is not gone. I'll ask UWV to look into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u209	I see you're having a lot of trouble saying goodbye to this subject, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u210	Yes, Mr Wiersma is really going to miss us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u211	Yes. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr President, it is a good thing that you still have room for that. My question was about the first point, that recovery action. I understand that this is a priority because there may be the biggest problem, but I am glad that the Minister wants to look further. I would ask him to report there at the end of December, when he comes back to the Chamber, that it is explicit. I'd like to have that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u213	That's what I want to do. Or politely said, I'm gonna ask UWV to look at this. Because UWV must also be able to execute it and see to it that reason is given. Mr De Graaf and also Mr Wiersma have asked about the direction and all the investigations that have been carried out over the past period. There is indeed new information coming out when the reports come out. My reluctance just had a reason. A lot of research is being done in many places within the UWV. Those are small researches, thematic researches and long-term researches. In part, they are also internal investigations for control: control, quality, supervision. It is impossible to have a look at all the research that the UWV does and it is also not desirable for SZW to do so. Of course, I think it is important that we, both the Ministry of Social Affairs, I as Minister and your Chamber, have a look at the main problems that are emerging. Hence the alert letter, the fraud phenomena and the Audit Committee. I have therefore launched many measures to improve this and to strengthen the provision of information to your Chamber, including, for example, the fourth paragraph. It is precisely in this process that an enormous amount of investment is being made. So I can't live up to all the tests. However, I have shared all the phenomena that have emerged over the past period, which I think your Chamber should know, in the state of implementation of the four implementing organisations. Mrs Van Brenk asked whether inspectors at workplaces should not actively check for any benefits. UWV participates, just like municipalities, in intervention teams through which visits to workplaces are made. In such cases, all workers present shall be subject to checks. Information shall be recorded as to whether they receive a benefit and shall be enforced. Arbo inspectors, i.e. people from the SZW Inspection who control the ARB breach, cannot request this data and pass it on to the UWV for privacy reasons. This is regulated by law, because that is where the focus is on working conditions, the Working Time Act and that sort of thing. Mrs Van Brenk also asked for an appreciation of the benefits to TBs. I am highly recommended for the information that Mr Krol has and wants to send to me in this regard. You've done that before, so I'd be happy to receive it. Then I will give you an appreciation of that, because I find it very complicated to judge it now. I would also like to contact the Minister for Legal Protection, who I think is about this, about what exactly is the background to this. I can't judge that. Mr Van Dijk asked about the protection of whistleblowers, people who have sent signals. I did a quick check-up. To our knowledge, there is no investigation into whistleblowers. I just checked on the break, I'll tell you what. It is important, it is extremely important, that employees feel sufficiently heard and therefore do not have to go to the media to express their concerns, because it is simply recorded internally. It is good that the board wants to talk to them to implement the recommendation of that cultural research that I was just talking about, about the mutual trust that needs to be promoted. I know that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u214	Very briefly, in addition. As the Minister says now, I would like to, too, but I had heard that the board was looking for the sources of Nieuwsuur to perhaps call them on the mat. That would be the wrong approach again. Does the Minister share the view that that was not the intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u215	I share that with Mr Jasper Van Dijk. By the way, I have no reason to do so, but I would be very happy if people would come and talk to each other to share those signals. For the sake of completeness, I have just understood that there is no research going on, but I would like to ask about that. And at the end of this month we'll be back in the AO SUWI that's the last point... sorry, the AO structure execution work and income, for the people watching this broadcast. Someone says: implement social security. Structure execution work... SUWI... No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u216	I'll ask the clerk. Implementation of social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u217	AO implementing social security, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u218	Because then people understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u219	Then people will understand. Yeah, exactly. Mr Van Weyenberg asked if I could ask the Secretary of State to send a letter to the AO on the VNG, the question that Mr Wiersma had. I'm definitely gonna ask the Secretary of State to do that for the AA. That's in three weeks, I say out of my mind, or two and a half weeks. Then we don't have any research going on, do we, in terms of expectations management? But I will ask if the VNG can be approached to look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u220	That an investigation, if it has yet to be started, is not completed in three weeks, I understand, of course. I'm mostly concerned with these signals. The intelligence agency is also aware, so I assume that something has been done about it at municipal level in recent months, also driven by SZW, I hope. So I really hope the conclusion is not that nothing has happened yet, but at least I would like to hear the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u221	Yes. The motion Smeulders in part No. 582 calls on the government not to allow the detection and handling of fraud to be at the expense of services. I very much agree with him. That's how she gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u222	I'll take a look. You may also take her if no one objects. Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u223	Well, it's nice that your room can vote nicely, isn't it? I have been a Member of Parliament for seven years; it is a pleasure to be able to put your hand in the air once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u224	You can't interfere. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u225	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u226	Okay. Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u227	Sorry, Chairman. I shouldn't interfere with your work. The motion in part No. 583 calls on the Bureau to set up a parliamentary interrogation. That is not a request to me, but to your own Chamber, to your Presidium.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u228	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u229	I'd like to add a few things to that. I think it is important that we give the UWV time now to make those improvements. This includes expectations management. There's no way it'll all be resolved tomorrow. It's a long-term process. I very much agree with many of your Members of Parliament that it should be better. I also believe that we should have time to implement the steps that need to be taken. Those are all long-term trajectories. Think of such cultural research. Think of an ICT landscape in which to invest. So again, I'm not going over it. I'm not gonna judge that either. Then I come to the motion on part No. 584 by Mrs Palland, who calls for a half-yearly progress report with the key figures. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. The motion in part No. Mr Wiersma asked the government to examine how unfairly paid benefits to prisoners could be brought to light more quickly. He's gonna get judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 586 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Jasper van Dijk, the government requests that the information position and direction of the Chamber be strengthened in a structural manner and that there be sufficient external scrutiny and control of the whole operation and that regular reports be provided to the Chamber. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. With the motion in part No. 587 by Mrs Van Brenk I'm struggling a bit. I am incredibly in favour of smarter enforcement. That is indeed also at the heart of the research of the University of Groningen. Moreover, the question is whether it is wise to do so as described in the study. I would ask Mrs Van Brenk to hold the motion so that I can see how it relates to the Fraud Act and get back to the state of implementation. That's December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u230	I hear Mrs Van Brenk saying she wants to hold her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. The last motion, the one in part No. Mr De Graaf (S). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr De Graaf on his excellent report. So I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u232	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-8.u233	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
