ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office of the Chamber of General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Knapen on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating colleagues Cliteur and Rosenmöller on their maiden speech. It is good to have here a small lecture on constitutional foundations from a Leiden professor. It is also good to be reminded of the past, to witness the mixture of passion and eloquence again. It's good to be there. I almost wanted to congratulate Secretary of State, but others have to pass that on to him. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this century, the filmmaker Michiel van Erp made a beautiful picture of our country, a bit like Bert Haanstra. You will see at the station in Almere extremely satisfied grandmothers with very large bags of closet paper that they received as a gift at the Househoudbeurs, where it was very nice. You can see drivers in Zutphen who are going to conquer the world now that they have a new slogan, a new city marketing slogan: Zoom in on Zutphen! That documentary is called Amusement Park Netherlands and would now, a little over twenty years later, probably zoom in on quite other things. Maybe they would zoom in on the poverty among growing children or on the phenomenon of those 2 million Dutch people who use antidepressants every year on doctor's prescription, or maybe it would be a documentary about a day in the life of a hate twitterer. It would be different than 20 years ago. Of course it's just mood images and it's just a matter of feeling. For if we let the facts speak, we may actually be extremely satisfied, as others have said before me. Nineteen of the twenty countries with the most equality in the world are European countries, and we are one of them. We're in the top ten of the United Nations Human Development Index. And it may be surprising, but social mobility here is now considerably greater than in the United States. And so you could think of care, health, social affairs, education, for a while, singing praises throughout all sectors of social life. But, and hence my introduction, we feel threatened by forces and powers greater than ourselves. Democracys are under pressure, authoritarian China is becoming an extremely powerful country and the giganticism of inter-terrorists is disrupting institutions and communities. Globalisation and automation do not necessarily turn out to be a celebration. The middle class, which is the core of a stable society, feels wetness. There's a growing precariate full of uncertainty about the future. For the many one and a half earners, much changes. Think of innovation and flexibilisation. It is these people, often more or less SMEs, who feel the consequences, experience little growth prospects and become highly uncertain about the future of their children. In the meantime, social media encourage the discourse on this issue to become more extreme. When you used to receive a scary, hate-sowing letter sent to the editors, you wrote to him, "It was always men who returned neatly that you were not served by it." Now such a person taps his anger into a tweet and before the evening is over, there are 10,000 declarations of adhesion. I'm just saying, poison is harder to channel. Of course, a lot of things happen to us, and as a small country, we also get along with the trends in the world. However, in a context of modesty and a sense of reality, directors in our country can make a difference, for the better or for the worse. As far as we are concerned, this cabinet is on the right track, and that is quite surprising. This cabinet was difficult to establish two years ago. In all respects it seemed to be an embarrassment solution, with actually too many parties to be able to make a bit of pace. The question arose: who is warm for a cabinet that doesn't belong to anyone? And frankly, the first year didn't happen that much either. However, the cabinet is still there, the Prime Minister is still there and not only that: it went very well then. The question is, why is that? The cynic will say that governing is not so difficult when you can buy off any conflict with plenty of available financial resources. And sure, that helps. But even more, the cabinet has gradually stripped itself of beaten enthusiasm and found the route to pragmatism and, who knows, sense of duty. And nowhere is that better to see than in the climate. Because, Mr President, the climbing measures have taken a special course. At first, things couldn't go far enough. The Hague climate tables seemed to preach the revolution, until the revolution penetrated the citizen and told him that he was not interested in revolution. Autumn 2018 seemed to be the autumn of exactly 100 years ago: a journal of a revolution that didn't go through. But don't worry. The great gain of the seemingly endless palaver is that we have a more realistic plan, that the citizen can be taken into account and that it can therefore be maintained for a longer period of time. Because, in order to avoid misunderstandings, our group also considers it necessary to promote the transition from fossil to sustainable. At least we should do what we have agreed with our partners in treaties and in Europe. That's how it's supposed to be, and it gives you the right to speak. But a little looking around wouldn't hurt. Let me give you an example. We are seriously discussing the closure of a new and relatively clean coal plant in Delfzijl. A few kilometers away, in Germany, it is agreed to close the next twenty coal-fired power stations. I would like to ask the cabinet to consider these things of a serious neighbouring country in order to respect common sense and standards. The speed at which our finely branched gas network is now put away as a "fault" also gives thought. Of course, gas is fossil and fossil is wrong. But do we know that gas is a lot cleaner than coal and that it is already difficult enough to get the big industrial nations off the coal? The G20 countries, leading China, Korea, India, America and Australia, have tripled subsidies for coal power plants over the last three years. That was against all solemn promises, but still. Do we know that in France and Germany, they are giving subsidies to people who switch to gas? Here discouragement, a little further on encouragement. We have to do the right things, but step by step and not by downfall prophecies, for whom it will never be enough. In short, applause for the route from fossil to sustainable, but don't turn the country's benevolent citizens into traitors by wearing T-shirts with the text "drammer" here in The Hague. I hope that this cabinet will be able to share the same thoughts with all the nitrogen pressures. Mr. Chairman. Compliments, too, for the many parties who in principle have offered the prospect of a pension agreement, and for the Minister for Social Affairs. Although his party was co-founded to deal with civil society, it is to be praised that he eventually wanted to see the light, exercise patience and finally found a way out of this after years of struggle with trade unions, employers, the Economic and Social Council and many others. Of course we're not here yet, and the main thing is the struggle is ahead of us. What to do with a capital-covered system in a world where there is so much savings that interest is no longer paid meaningfully? Anyone who predicted ten years ago that the State would get money when issuing bonds would have been said to be crazy. Now there are 16 000 billion negative interest bonds in the world. Mr. Chairman. We also welcome the fact that the cabinet is rigging an investment fund. Money is free and that offers a great opportunity to invest extra in our country's future earning ability, in a great leap forward with the energy transition and in grand travaux. Of course, it keeps on paying attention that it doesn't shred all of it. The law of political gravity teaches that money has a strong tendency to flow to the nearest voters. Hail for the fence that this cabinet has put around this. I'd say put cameras in there, too. So how about this fund, but it also has something of "don't ask how it can be done, but enjoy it." Because what kind of society do we get caught up in when you pay a fine when you save and get money when you make debts? Is this not at odds with the foundations on which an economy, a social culture and a morality are founded? Let me illustrate the confusion from the perspective of a typical kitchen table. We're being urged to pay off mortgage more quickly. So that's a form of saving. At the same time, this cabinet in box 3 fined the savings. The ECB also fined the savings, because there is too much savings. At the kitchen table you try to understand that at the same time. The Prime Minister will undoubtedly speak straight in his response, but I am curious to see how. To finish this: can the cabinet map a little more strategically what long-term absence of interest actually means for a society? Mr. Chairman. It has already been discussed this morning and I would like to emphasise that one of the key functions of a government is public order. Mr Cliteur spoke about this in detail. Public order forms the skeleton of the public body, to which everything else is attached. Our concerns are also great in this respect. Recent reports are alarming and, frankly, they are also unheard of: 18 billion in criminal drug money in Brabant, 9 billion in suspicious transactions, the biggest producer of ecstasy, teenagers from disadvantaged neighbourhoods who throw away their future with courier services, and cocaine that is delivered more easily at home in Amsterdam than a pizza. I quote for the latter the Global Drug Survey. The analysis is the same every time: we are a fantastic logistics crossroads of worlds, the chance of getting caught and punishment are low here and the social climate of fish-a-vis drugs is friendly here. These are all beneficial location factors for this business. After the last alarming report by researchers Tops and Tromp, which has been mentioned here before, the Amsterdam mayor immediately took over all recommendations. Our Minister of Justice too, I do not see him right now, after every report, I hear him say that it is a disgrace and that it has been dealt with. It's been like this for years. The question is why, and why, good intentions after a year or so have gone away over and over again. You might wonder if it's a little deeper. For example, Amsterdam is a magnet for foreign tourists with its 167 coffeeshops. It is the marketing tool par excellence for those who want to spend a few days in our capital using Ryanair or easyJet. I don't think anyone's really awake about that. According to the GGD, almost one in five adults last year used hard drugs in Amsterdam. One in five. Statistically, therefore, each profession is likely to participate in this. So hard drugs are long gone; they are everywhere. And as someone who sniffs coke becomes narcissistic and selfish and loses every ability to empathy, so is a society that has integrated drugs. You know it's not right, you yell "shame" after every report, and you go to the order of the day. In fact, do we not ask agents to maintain a standard that is no longer shared by a substantial part of society? And if so, what do we do about this? Mr. Chairman. I'm changing the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u4	I noticed there was a change of subject. Hard drugs often start with soft drugs. It's a sliding scale into which young people end up. Isn't this an important signal to the cabinet to stop legalizing weed, or a pilot for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u5	We are talking today about a number of general issues. It's certainly so, and also the Trimbos Institute indicates that the scale of what used to be in the flowerpower of the 1970s and with a more nostalgic look soft drugs and hard drugs has now become a bit more gliding and gradual. That's right. So it's harder. But I do not want to anticipate draft legislation that still needs to be discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u6	I'll be brief. I actually have a very specific question. I am struggling a little with assessing the tone of the reading and Mr Knapen's questions. He is very optimistic and very satisfied with what the cabinet has achieved. He supports the cabinet. But between the lines I also hear that 2 million people are taking antidepressants and that there are haters. What are they all so angry about anyway? Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr Cliteur said this morning: I can talk about this for a long time. I'm supposed to answer only now, but I don't have one-two-three answers that would do justice to the breadth of the analysis about why people are insecure, restless, not trusting the future and have somewhat lost faith in the collective. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau mentions: "I feel fine, but society is in a bad way." Those kinds of discrepancies all have an effect on how people interact with each other. The technology also makes the way people interact less easy to channel and direct. If I compliment the Cabinet on things, it doesn't mean I don't criticize the Cabinet too, or ask critical questions about other things. The cabinet is neither perfect nor worthless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u8	That's deeply philosophical. Please continue your speech. No, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u9	I am interrupting, because otherwise my point will go away because Mr Knapen is moving on to another subject. Isn't the biggest problem in our society that most people fear some things or hope for some things? I refer to lengthy reports from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. At the moment when fear prevails over hope, the reaction of people is as described. What should this society, and therefore the policy that plays a leading role in it, do to restore hope of getting the upper hand over fear? I refer to the period just after World War II. The objective circumstances were three times nothing, I'll say. The war was over, but the country was in ruins. Yet people had the hope that tomorrow would be better than it was today and yesterday. What do we have to do in the eyes of the CDA to restore hope over fear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u10	Two answers. One is the general one, which also suits my party. That is why we need to look for cohesion in society, keep an eye on those who are lagging behind and backtrack people who are going too far ahead. That, I think, is an important point. If Mr Kox talks about the period shortly after the war, we had an economic growth rate of 5% to 6% each year. Now, in ten years' time, on average, we come to 1%. You have to imagine: an average growth of 1% means that in your active life, say between the 50th and the 70th, you have a growth of roughly 64% to 65%. If you have an average of 2.5% growth, which was the case 20 years ago, you can see a growth of 340% to 350% in an active life. The perspective, the expectation, the opportunities for change and the idea that you are all moving forward are so much more powerful if you have higher economic growth than if you have lower economic growth, that we as democracies still have to learn how to deal with a society where economic growth as such no longer gives this automatic expectation perspective. This means that we have to look at how we deal with each other in other ways. This means I call on everyone to vote for my party next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u11	That's a noble ambition, but I'd like to hear the rest of the story first before making that decision. I do not want to give Mr Knapen too much hope, but in the end many CDAs voted for my party, so this development can also be reversed. Maybe. Mr Knapen points out that, at a time when economic growth is no longer as high as after the Second World War, it is difficult to keep people happy. Should we be there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u12	I would like to object to that summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u13	I meant to say, that made it easier to satisfy people. Should we not look much more broadly at how we can make people more satisfied and give them more confidence in tomorrow, even if economic growth is not so great? We may not be able to get much richer per capita, but all together, of course, we can get much richer infinitely. If we set society up better and more humanely, it has a value that can easily compete with money or growth. Mr Knapen's party was for a long time a party that had faith in the community; the community could take care of things that you as an individual could not achieve. Can we get that CDA back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u14	I would like to say that to Mr Kox. Not so much that the CDA is coming back in that sense, but I can confirm that Mr Kox could read the latest CDA election programme that that party is so. It may sound like a cliché or an open door, but we are looking for it in the strength and cohesion of civil society. We have somewhat dampened expectations in terms of what the State can regulate and what advantages and disadvantages it can bring in terms of alienation and effectiveness. We are not among those who think: freedom by definition makes society the happiest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u15	Mr Knapen talks about past and present growth rates and their impact on people's sense of well-being. A former member of Mr Knapen's party, Bob Goudswaard, has contributed to the growth of 1993. I would like to hear from Mr Knapen, as a member of a party that stands for stewardship, a reflection on how to continue to grow on a earth that does not grow. How can you continue to grow the moment you consume here as if you have three globes at your disposal? Then it is naive to say that we must change the way we grow, but that growth must continue in any case. That's an impossibility, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u16	I gave the improvised calculation example of growth to indicate where a society can strike a balance between optimism and pessimism. I was in Southeast Asia last week. There you have growth rates of 5% to 6% a year. The average age there is 27 or 28. The vitality on those mopeds is throbbing at you. Of course, that's not the case here. This means that we will have to find a way of dealing with growth in a way that is not classic, and I agree with Mr Koffeman. There have been attempts to change gross national product and see if we can add welfare elements to it. We will have to look at growth in a different way. But our expectations on this point are likely to differ in terms of technology, human ingenuity, inventions and dynamics in this area may be somewhat greater than in Mr Koffeman's party. I would not necessarily fall into the fatalistic groove that you should go from a lot of growth to no growth. We are moving towards a qualitatively different growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr Koffeman has just made one final point, and then we will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u18	We in the Animal Party are not pessimistic at all. We believe that the bio-industry can be closed down without you having to do anything wrong with people. We do believe in technological solutions. But the fact is that Earth overshoot day, the day on which we will have prepared the reconstructed raw materials of the earth for this year, is now in July. So after July, we live on the puff of future generations. So you can have hope for the future. That's exactly where the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen went wrong...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u19	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u20	It was said that we are going to expand first and then we will deal with it. It's been seen that this didn't happen. So I would like to know from Mr Knapen how he is going to take less an advance on an uncertain future and how he is going to anticipate more about the fact that the future may have less to offer than we used to in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u21	Mr Knapen replied and then continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u22	I think we should take into account the developments that Mr Koffeman paints. However, we must also take into account the people who live in this country. We have to take these people with us. I've said before that the unbearable enthusiasm for Al Gore has finally brought us Donald Trump. So you need to look at the balance that allows you to take people into this process. Perhaps Mr Koffeman will say that it will be too late, but then I am a little more optimistic. Then I think: it's not too late; that's what we're going to save.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u23	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u24	I hope Mr Knapen is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u25	Chairman! Britain is leaving the European Union. The United States is disassociating itself more and more from Europe and trying to undermine the European Union. That has huge consequences. This Eurasian tongue threatens to become a playball of external powers and forces. Do we understand the signs of time enough? Does NATO remain our dominant anchor, as always so eagerly and more or less automatically? The Foreign Minister is talking about a policy of changing coalitions for our country to represent our interests. It looks like a clinical-neutral model. But shouldn't we try to protect our values and interests more firmly with our neighbours? Shouldn't we try a little bit more fate? According to the Social Cultural Planning Bureau, Dutch people's views on Europe are imbued with ambivalence: we want common principles, hard agreements and firm commitments. But we also want a small European Union, at a great distance, and we are strongly attached to our national identity. You can even see this ambivalence in this square: in the House of Representatives there is quite a bit of a rage against Europe, here is a bit more eye for usefulness and necessity. In any case, there is every reason for a cabinet to give direction in such an ambivalent situation. A great opportunity, too, you'd say. But it takes some courage and first of all, as has been said, ear and eye for the signs of time. We will have to join forces with our neighbouring countries, such as France and Germany, to defend our prosperity and well-being. It is an illusion to continue to build only on the America First for our safety. We will have to face the consequences and discuss them with our citizens. Great Britain left that behind. It is now under the slogan "Take Back Control" about to become an exclusive vassal of America. It would be ironic if it weren't so tragic. We shouldn't want something like that. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are traditionally a country of the moderate middle. It can't be different with so many heads, so many sentences, with so many parties and parties in the country's meeting rooms. The political centre can be a bit boring, not exciting and compelling enough for all observers. The political center, perhaps just like the mental center, is also an expression of a latent desire for a quiet life. But as representative of the moderate middle, I am concerned at two traditionally authoritative beacons of democracy: Britain and the United States. That's where the moderate middle is at risk of becoming homeless. Sometimes I look at it a little desperate, too, I say honestly. Are we particularly witnessing tastelessness or lack of decency and manners or is there something dangerous going on that goes further? And what are we gonna do with it? I'm not asking the government to respond to this. We are a great supporter of the adage which prefers responsible action in the longer term to a short-term good sense of testimonial politics. So we understand very well that the government does not always comment on what political leaders in Washington and London are doing. But what we can and must do in this part of Europe is to strengthen links with our European neighbours and friends. Because with them, we will have to defend our interests and values. It's not free, and we can't do it alone. This requires not only a morale, but above all a political compass. I wish this cabinet the courage to develop this compass, including the authority and the courage to take the public in the direction that this compass indicates. I look forward to the exchange of views with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u26	Thank you to Mr Knapen for this fine speech. A number of things have been taken from my heart. I have another question for the CDA about civil society. Your colleague across the street spoke again to our great joy about the housing of the people. I am curious to see what the CDA thinks of the proposals that have been made to give the housing corporations more room to do what they can do well, and certainly for the middle groups, which he was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u27	Sometimes a word says more than a whole argument. I found the use of the word 'people's housing' rather than the housing market an interesting signal to indicate the direction in which we are thinking. That's the direction my party likes very much. I look forward to translating it into draft laws which I hope will come along later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u28	A little more concrete, though. The housing corporations are fairly burdened by the landlord's tax. This means, for example, that they can build fewer houses for the middle class. Are you also in favour of the landlord levy falling significantly and becoming less than the automatic increase we see now, despite the fact that the cabinet puts 100 million in every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u29	That is what we are for in principle. If I have understood it, the cabinet is in favour of it and has also made proposals. I am waiting to see how the cabinet will deal with this later on, and with the questions you are asking, but I assume that the cabinet will defend what it has defended in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u30	An interesting argument, with a beautiful international component. I'd like to talk to you again about the causes of Trump's election, because I thought that was a little too one-dimensional. My question concerns the CDA, the farmers, the PAS and the Council of State. That was a slightly less explicit part of your story. From the interruption I had with Mr Cliteur, it came to the conclusion that he said that the ruling of the Council of State on nitrogen is sacred. Does that apply to the CDA, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u31	"Holy" is a word that we may not be able to say very easily, because we know what the portee of the term means, so in that sense I will not repeat it. But the fact is that we too believe that at the end of the day the legislator and the judge will have the last word. But I'll add to that: at the end of the day. As Mr Cliteur pointed out, people are allowed to express their opinions, they are allowed to do so in a variety of ways, and that is well regulated here, and that form of opinion can ultimately also influence decision-making. If I understand correctly, we're still waiting for the cabinet at the nitrogen file. So do we. We expect that, after what may have seemed like a few improvisations, thought-out and thought-out will be looked at how to deal with this, taking into account the causes of this, but also what one can expect of people in a reasonable manner from one day to the next. A predictable government also remains an important part of what we do with each other here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u32	Mr Rosenmöller, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u33	You position your party in a certain tradition. This includes those who support them, and the farmers also play a role in this. The hope of farmers is, to a large extent, based on your party. Here, of course, the end of the day is already behind us. The judge has spoken. Then it is important to hear from you whether you see that statement as the starting point for the rest of the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u34	If I see it correctly, the day is not yet over, and I do not mean that faintly, but I see that the cabinet comes up with a translation into the administrative practice of what this statement of the Council of State means. Everyone is waiting for that translation, and so are we. As I assume that for GroenLinks in a broader sense predictability and reliability of a government are important, so is for my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u35	I would like to thank Mr Knapen for his pro-European reflections, especially in the current international context. I hear him say that the countries around us must hold on to each other in a European context. There is a concrete proposal, a German-French initiative to share in solidarity migrants arriving in southern Europe. How does your group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u36	Now you are asking a question about something that is still under discussion in the House of Representatives, so that is not yet discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u37	Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u38	I will now give you the answer that will apply for the time being. We are not very enthusiastic about this, given what we have done so far. Mrs Bredenoord must also understand the following. If you argue that you cooperate as much as possible with neighbouring countries and friends who uphold and represent the same values as we do, that does not mean that you agree by definition that in future you will do everything one of those countries wants. You don't have to. We have taken a small share in Air France/KLM to defend our interest. And yet you can work extremely well together and be friends with France. One doesn't rule out the other. So I would not consider this question to be the litmus test of what is needed in the longer term in the field of security, defence, counter-terrorism and so on, what you do together in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u39	Well, then maybe that's a little misunderstanding. It is certainly not the case that a country asks for this and that you have to participate. It is an initiative of two large countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u40	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u41	They are putting their hands together on a major European issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u42	I believe you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u43	That's different from what you're suggesting, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u44	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u45	I thought you almost agreed, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u46	Do we agree? As I have said, I do not think it is right to take out one such subject and then say that this is the litmus test of what it is about. It may be that at the end of the day the cabinet decides: we have to go with a little more sister or a little bit like this, because that is often the case with these kinds of subjects. As far as I am concerned, it does not affect the fundamental principle that we must manage with our neighbours in a world where we are getting smaller and the rest are getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u47	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Vos, for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by congratulating my fellow maidens on their maiden speech, just like the President, because this is his first major debate, and of course Mr Snel, my peer. I just turned 49, too, a top age. Mr. Chairman. We live in a prosperous country: stable, not too big conflicts and, as the Millions note shows, with good prospects. But how can it be that there's a shortage of teachers? How can it be that people with a moral income can't buy a house anymore? How is it that one in nine children grow up in poverty? There's no shortage of money. There's no shortage of plans. There is a lack of consensus in this coalition to decide how and where the money can be used. Fortunately, there is an opposition that can help this coalition to make the right decisions. The PvdA Group is making a number of suggestions today that the government can start working on tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Our education is a subject of continuing concern to this government, to all governments, but in recent months it has been more of a headache. The PvdA Group cannot imagine that the government itself believes that a structural problem can be solved by means of occasional money. And it isn't. We recently read in the newspaper that all coalition groups want more money for education, but that the structure of the coalition consultation had forgotten the desire for more money for education. I hope that the core is true, namely that all four coalition parties believe that something needs to be done structuralally against the shortage of teachers. Because parents for the class instead of qualified teachers, four-day school weeks, no education for four-year-olds, classes with 60 children and rich parents who pay 200 million per year for tutoring their children, we call public poverty. I just can't believe this is the Netherlands. The teachers will take action next week, without tractors, but hopefully with the support of many Dutch people. But they'd rather just teach the kids. The government knows exactly what it has to do to make that action superfluous. The teacher shortage is not resolved next year with a one-off additional amount from the Navy Note. The shortage of teachers can be tackled with structural money and firm policies. The teachers need to know that the workload will end. The subject becomes more attractive when teachers in primary education and secondary special education are paid as much as in secondary education. This therefore requires structural money. The government also realizes that children in disadvantaged neighbourhoods suffer most from the shortage of teachers. And that by dragging away, we reduce their chances of a good life. Is the government prepared to actually tackle the shortage of teachers and allocate structural money to this crucial part of the budget? Mr. Chairman. While I am at 'things that cost money', the PvdA Group also wants to discuss the announced investment fund. In the aim of the plans we can certainly agree: to strengthen our future earning capacity, to stimulate innovation and to develop a circular economy. That's all very well. However, we do not understand why a separate fund should be set up for this purpose. Remember the FES and the Innovation Platform? Those were in no time honey pots around which the polder was crawling in search of projects for the money. It doesn't work. The Netherlands has a very good infrastructure for research, both between the disciplines and in connection with companies that can carry out the innovations. Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs De Graaf's research showed this. She has often been mentioned in the debates on science, but what Mariana Mazzucato says about the usefulness of public investment remains a truth like a cow. Almost all innovations have somewhere a researcher at the base who received money, time and resources from the government to do fundamental research. Nobel laureate Feringa even said that with the current way of financing he could never have done his groundbreaking research. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group asks the government to take the most efficient route to a sensible spending of the money. If you want to strengthen earning power, there are hundreds of scientists with plans to do fundamental and applied research. How great would it be if the NWO could honor all the good proposals for a few years? That good proposals no longer need to be drawn between them? That there will be time and space again to do fundamental research in the first stream of money? Mr. Chairman. The plans for the fund have not yet been worked out. Will the government promise that it will also seriously consider whether the detour of the fund can be skipped? Then tomorrow the government can start to strengthen its earning capacity by supporting the regular channels of research and science policy with more money. This also applies to a number of other useful investments in housing and climate. We're still making a few suggestions. I said it in the small debate with Mr Knapen: during the APB in the Lower House there was again talk about 'people's housing'. You understand that that word goes into the PvdA as God's word in an elder. That's what I'm saying to the SGP. Fortunately, we have come back from the delusion that the housing market itself produces good and affordable homes. During the economic crisis, housing corporations were subject to a landlord's tax. The result is that they are now doing much less than they could do. But if you want to have a social connection between low incomes, middle incomes and high incomes, and that the different income groups can live together, then housing corporations must also be able to serve the middle incomes. And preferably also provide care in the neighborhood, so that older people can continue to live in their own environment. And youth bases, community centers, sports fields, so young people can't fall into the hands of the wrong people. Mr. Chairman. The housing market has exploded, people with a middle income are at the mercy of the market and can no longer move. It is time for the government to have a view on housing and to turn its constitutional role into action under Article 22. The PvdA Group asks the government to raise the income standard so that middle income can also live in these houses. I heard in the conversation with Mr Knapen that he also thinks that the landlord levy should be reduced more on balance than increase. That is the case now. Will the government also promise that the landlord's tax will fall on balance and not increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u49	I am also glad that Mrs Vos is pleased that we are talking about housing again. As you get older, you have more history. In my past, the year 1995 occurred when the brutal operation took place. It took place when the Labour Party was in the government, along with the VVD. I'm really happy with what you're saying and what other parties are saying, but does that mean that the Labour Party is now realizing that we need to restore the cut we made then, in which we actually privatized housing corporations from the government? And that somehow we will have to connect the housing corporations with the government, to make up for that mistake in the past.... whoever made it? 'Cause we're gonna have to start delivering butter to the fish now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u50	Sure. The PvdA learned a lot from that period. That is also what you have seen in all our contributions across the street and, in my opinion, here with my predecessor in recent years. That hard cut that has been made, the way in which we have marketted housing corporations, civil society, associations that were run by and for users, has certainly been a big mistake. I'm glad we get to learn, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u51	Resume your speech, Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u52	Here again: the plans are ready, the housing corporations can do it, tomorrow we can start. The municipalities also know about the surpluses: care, swimming pools and libraries. All public services suffering from public poverty. As far as we are concerned, the government is not only going to investigate the step-on-step approach, but we are already investing in public wealth tomorrow. It helps everyone, every income group. Mr. Chairman. Climate policy requires as much unanimity as the first polderers who laid the dikes shoulder to shoulder. We need to generate our own energy. We need to produce less waste. We need to reduce nitrogen and CO emissions. Climate policy must not be politicised. That should not be a struggle between worried farmers and worried young people. We just have to get to work. I think even a devoid climate denier will be proud if in a few years' time we have made the Netherlands energy independent and we have real winters and clean air again. And again, Mr President, we can get started on that tomorrow. The government has the means to do so. The surplus in the budget can be used to increase the lending facilities for citizens to make them more sustainable. The surplus can be used to support housing corporations that make homes more energy efficient. That also helps the low incomes and middle incomes. The government can work tomorrow to make climate action feasible and affordable for people. Mr. Chairman. Now a subject that doesn't cost money, just courage. And that's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. I want to talk about the normalization of racism. The fact that people are no longer ashamed of throwing racist dung into public space. One of the most shocking examples of this was the reaction to the throne speech of King Yusuf Khalid. This 14-year-old gymnast spoke in his speech to the throne about depression in children, a poignant and courageous subject for a eulogy of the throne. What was his thanks? Comments like this, with name and name: "King of youth are from the Netherlands means that there is a Dutch child and not this." We're talking about a 14-year-old boy, a student, a human, and not "this." I'm also thinking of a city councilman in Emmen, Ugbaad Kilinci. She's wearing a headscarf and she was born in Somalia. I am not going to repeat here what deeply offensive things she gets thrown at her head, even when she walks down the street with her 8-year-old daughter, my daughter, through people who are beyond shame. Minister Kaag's children use their mother's last name when applying, because they know that they are not invited to a conversation with their father's last name. It remains deeply sad, labour market discrimination. The cabinet is going to tackle discrimination in temp agencies. But this kind of policy, as has already been mentioned, must fall into fertile soil. If there is a standard, namely that you do not judge people by their colour or origin, then this kind of policy is also more successful. It is an old policy wisdom: it makes sense to make a law only when 80% of the population thinks the purpose of the law is logical. The fight against smoking has also become easier now that the vast majority of Dutch people just find smoking dirty. The Prime Minister can also set a standard. He spontaneously responded to a sexist remark made by a member of the House of Representatives, that it was narrowingly about a "theekransje" when it was about the suitability of Mrs Von der Leyen. I quote the Prime Minister: "I am so proud that the role of Minister of Defense is now filled by women all over the world and that girls when born can now become Chancellor of Germany" (or Prime Minister of Belgium) "or Chairman of the Second Chamber. What a wrong thing to say, buh." That's what the Prime Minister said. Mr. Chairman. I would like the government to do so more often: to set the standard and to hammer in what is normal. Racism must never become normal. It's a rotten place in our society. I assume the government agrees with the PvdA Group. Finally, Mr President. Unity has made Europe the prosperous and peaceful continent that it is today. I do understand that people are fleeing here for their safety and hope for a better life. We can't imagine how desperate you must be if you know you can die in a truck or on a dinghy, looking for a better life. It is not easy to solve the problems that these people are fleeing. Locking down the Mediterranean Sea or some additional development aid does not address the causes of this desperation. The beginning of a solution requires the same unity of Europe after the Second World War to tackle the causes of poverty and war. Unfortunately, the unity of Europe and its allies is being eroded. The PvdA fraction hopes from its fibers that we will continue to learn from history. Not only for our own peace and prosperity, but also for those who are desperate outside Europe. We wish the government wisdom and unity in the decision-making process on refugees and the conflict in Syria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u54	I would like to congratulate Mrs Vos, whom I congratulate on her fine speech, on the concept of racism. She has just said that she is concerned about the normalization of racism. I have to say that I am also concerned, not so much about the normalization of racism, but more about what I call the 'rassification': it is wrong to make race issues which are perhaps just political differences. If you have objections to, for example, headscarfs in the public service, or if you think it is wrong, for example, for a minister to go to Iran and then hide himself specifically, then you are not a racist. Then you have a discussion about whether the official service should be neutral and whether you think it is a good idea that people should be religiously earmarked or ideologically earmarked in public space. Racism is a very serious reproach. My question to Mrs Vos would be: is this not being used too often? Are you not wronging the nastyness of racism in the real sense of the word?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u55	Thank you for the question, but no. I do not want to have a semantic discussion about what is and is not exactly racism. Then you're missing the point that I think we both consider important. The examples I have just mentioned are indeed about racism. These are about the colour of Yusuf's skin, which is about the colour of the city councilman's skin and also about what she wears. I would like to talk about racism, because that form of insulting and distinguishing between people is so incredibly painful. Someone can't help how he or she's born. That is exactly what I want to talk about. We can have a whole semantic discussion about what exactly is and is not covered and whether that is insulting, yes or no. I also sometimes find it very offensive what is being said to people with different political views. I think we should take action against that too, especially in this house. But I want to be very specific about that very old rot in society, that we judge people by the color of their skin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u56	The problem is that if we want to be here exactly, we have to be exactly on those semantic awards. We must not use the word 'racism' too often. Mrs Vos has rightly said that she thinks it is a very serious matter when you distinguish between skin color, but we should not confuse that with all kinds of other discussions that you can have, for example about headscarfs. So I think these semantic awards are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u57	I also think that if someone wears a headscarf, there's no reason to offend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u58	Thank you. Then I'll look at Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u59	The SGP was addressed for a moment about God's word that an elder entered. I'm an elder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u60	My grandfather, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u61	Very nice. The purpose of God's word is that it goes inside everyone. Let me start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u62	I can recommend The Book of Mormon, a very nice musical about converting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u63	I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u64	My question was actually about Mrs Vos' call for solutions to the shortage of teachers. She also said that it is almost impossible to run a household. In one of her interruptions she also mentioned that it is almost impossible for a breadwinner. Is it known to Mrs Vos that, for example, breadwinners,one earners, have a huge problem, because they have to pay up to six times more taxes than two earners? You'll only be a teacher, you'll have to rent a house, and instead of paying €2,000 tax if you make €40,000 together, you'll have to pay almost €12,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u65	Your story is clear. Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u66	Yes, that problem, or at least that measure, is well known. This measure is also referred to as the "court grant" or the "court tax." I am concerned with the question, which was also asked by a colleague of the PVV to the Minister of Education, why, for example, so few men work in primary education. That has everything to do with the fact that as a man in the Netherlands, it is still the case that the man likes to be a breadwinner who can't win the cost with the salary that is paid there. That is why it needs to be raised and it is therefore important that the pay gap between primary and secondary education be bridged. This also applies to secondary special education. Also because we like to have men for the classroom in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u67	Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u68	That's what I'd like to underline. That is why you can not only look at this measure in the sense of "make salaries equal," but you must also do so in the sense of: equalise the tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u69	That is what we are going to talk about in detail next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u70	One thing remains with me at the end of Mrs Vos' speech. She talks a lot about the deficits in education, but also about the wages that people get in education. I see that problem and I feel a great deal about it. At the same time, I think: it is not the whole problem. Because does Mrs. Vos, for example, know how much an ordinary soldier earns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u71	I think a soldier deserves less when I look at the last lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u72	A soldier really deserves a lot less. I understand Mrs Vos's commitment to keeping it affordable for teachers too, so that they can live. But I would expect the Labour Party to make a firm plea for an increase in the defence budget, so that soldiers can actually earn more. That's what we could say for the neighborhood cop. I therefore share the concern for education and the shortage of teachers. Once, but we can't say there's just a problem there. Then you'll have to look wider, too. I miss that story with the Labour Party so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u73	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u74	I've got 16 minutes in total. I think that point is also very important. It will also be discussed in the Defence budget shortly. I know that Mr Kerstens is also committed to this. My general story is: there is public wealth. There is a lot of wealth in the Netherlands; there is enough money. There have already been calls for investment in the public sector: let the salaries of all these people grow along with agents, nurses, soldiers and educators. We wholeheartedly support that plea. I just didn't talk about DOD today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u75	Mrs. Bikker, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u76	In the counter-budget of the three left-wing parties, to which I hear the Labour Party most of the expression here, I miss that. But I'm very curious what we're going to experience in the next few weeks. At the same time, I say: this cabinet, and I am proud of it, has invested extra in education. There's money on the shelf. If collective agreements are concluded, teachers can earn more and go to another scale. So let's not just pretend there are black, dark clouds. There are also bright spots. Let's work on that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u77	I didn't say there were only black clouds. I do see a huge gap, a gap, between salaries in primary education and secondary education. We'll deal with the shortage of teachers when we close that gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u78	Mrs. Vos, thank you very much. Please stand still, if you'd like. Because I'm going to speak to you. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u79	49 years, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u80	Those are your words; I will not repeat them. Before becoming politically active yourself, you had already studied the phenomenon of politics extensively at the University of Amsterdam as a student of political science. Next, you went to work as an oio, a researcher in training, at the same university, which eventually led to your PhD. Some call graduation in social and behavioural sciences. Not long after that, you left science. You were an independent consultant at various organizations, including the government. From 2004 to 2006 you worked in temporary service for the Ministry of General Affairs, to be precise the National Information Service. You coordinated the "Values and Standards" programme of the Cabinet-Balkenende II.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u81	Sure, a very nice business card: coordinator Values and standards Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u82	During that period, you founded the Alternative Trade Union, AVV, "a trade union for outsiders," in your words. Outsiders in the case of the AVV are workers without acquired rights, such as flex workers, freelancers and temporary agency workers. You became at one stroke the face of a group of workers who did not feel represented by traditional trade unions or political parties. It gave you both criticism and praise. Plus an invitation to announce you to the House of Representatives on behalf of the PvdA. The fall of the Balkenende II cabinet led to you saying "yes" to politics in active service a little earlier than thought. In 2007 you took the oath to what we call "the other side" and stayed there until the fall of the fourth cabinet-Balkenende. After a short stop, the duration of the Rutte I cabinet, you returned to the blue chairs in 2012. After the loss of your party in the March 2017 elections, you became active again for the AVV. You still are. Since June 11th, you have been a representative again. This time in the green benches, and today in front of the Rutte III cabinet. "Welcome to the wonderful, sometimes funny, painful, stupid, but above all honorable work of the politician." You'll recognize the words immediately, of course. After all, these are your own words, written in Political for the layman, that you wrote in 2011 when you had just left the House of Representatives. In turn, I say welcome back! I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u83	Mr. Chairman. In a new First Chamber, with all new senators on the benches, I would like to congratulate the five colleagues on their maiden speech, new group chairmen and a new chairman of the First Chamber, I would like to introduce a new extra chair: the chair for the future. It is originally an idea from the book entitled Het greedgas van Jan Terlouw. It is an empty chair that represents the future in meetings, consultations and decision-making. By "the future" you can mean future generations, but also our own future, and of course the future of the planet as a whole. That chair helps to weigh the future into today's political decisions. There is also a justice aspect: we often make decisions that have profound consequences for future generations and also for life on earth, but they are not at the table themselves. Think Brexit, where an older generation voted for a future that young people didn't want at all. Of course, the seat of the future does not exclude the importance of current generations, but they often already have a voice. And to the extent that current stakeholders do not have a voice, this immediately points to shortcomings in our political system. Mr. Chairman. I sat on the future seat on behalf of the D66 Group and from that position looked at the cabinet and its plans, now in its third year. On a number of issues, I would like to congratulate the Cabinet on the steps that have been taken. The Climate Agreement, the pension agreement, the Cradle, and I do not mean the one at home, but the law that allows the partner six weeks of parental leave to tackle tax avoidance and allow an increase of 9% in teacher salaries in primary education: from the seat of the future, there is nodding. But on a number of issues, further urgency and forward-lookingness are needed. I'll go over those themes with you now. Recently, the first report of the SER Youth Platform on Youth Opportunities and Obstacles was published in 2019. I would like to raise a number of points on behalf of the D66 Group. The report and other studies show that higher education, and by that I mean HBO and WO, is widely accessible and that the influx has not declined in recent years. That's good news. However, there are concerns about accessibility for specific groups and there is a problem of accumulation. This means that there is a build-up of debt and stress through a combination of factors such as binding study advice, loan debts, the inaccessible housing market and the knowledge that permanent employment and pension building are no longer self-evident, especially for younger generations. It is a good thing that the increase in the rate of charge on student loans has not been achieved because of the problem of stacking. Does the government have a view on this problem of accumulation and what measures does the government propose to strengthen the position of young people? What is the view of this cabinet on borrowing and the loan system? We would like to receive an overview of how the loan system proceeds to higher education institutions from 2020. Our suggestion is to involve young people in developing a vision of financing the student loan, in whatever form it will be. For example, put the SER Youth Platform in the future seat and let it think along, because it is about their future study opportunities and opportunities. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Last year the Minister of OCW came up with an inspiring science letter on the value of science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u84	Mr Bredenoord talks about the loan system. I share her concerns as far as she's addressed them. D66 was one of the architects behind the loan system and your colleague in the House of Representatives said: as far as we are concerned, the loan system could be different, but we do not like going back to the basic grant. Can I know how Mr. Bredenoord looks at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u85	I fully agree with what Mr Jetten said about this. At the old basic scholarship there were two problems. The main problem was that it was not sufficient and that it was not a fair distribution of tuition fees. It has been said many times that the baker had to contribute to the study of the lawyer. I think that the social loan system is really a more social system, but I do see that in its present form there are bottlenecks for specific groups. We need to discuss with each other how that higher education remains accessible to all groups. I'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u86	If I understand Mr Bredenoord correctly, she still thinks that the social loan system is preferable to the basic grant and that our young people should be trained and burdened with debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u87	Then you didn't understand me correctly. I do believe that the social loan system is preferable to the basic grant, but I do think that the social loan system needs to be improved. The system was introduced under Rutte II. There was broad support at the time, and I honestly believe that there is broad support for looking at it again. We introduced this a few years ago and we see that it is not fair enough on a few points. But going back to the old system is even more unfair to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u88	Finally. My question to Mr Bredenoord is concrete: is D66 for debt-free study or for studying with a build-up of debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u89	I don't think anything is such a good investment in yourself and in society as an appropriate education. I honestly believe that both society and people themselves can make a certain financial contribution to this. I don't think it's crazy to tell students that part of it needs to be borrowed. I don't think that's crazy at all, especially if it's a social loan, which means that if you can't repay it, if you don't get above a certain income, then what's going on with the social loan system is not going to be paid back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u90	Please reconsider your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u91	Mr. Chairman. Where was I? By the science letter. My group appreciates the investment that is being made in innovation and knowledge, currently over 400 million a year, and shares the ambition that science is internationally oriented, strives for social impact and must be a breeding ground for talent. As a professor, I myself am connected to a University Medical Center and a university. I've been able to see how the numbers of students have grown. That is of course very good news, because if there is something an investment in yourself and in society then it is an appropriate education. From the year 2000, the budgets are growing along with the student numbers, but the research budget has not risen proportionally. The workload in higher education is enormous and the competition for research money kills............................................................................................................................................................................................. What measures does the Cabinet take to reduce the workload for higher education professionals? Is the cabinet prepared to give a boost to the current proposals on recognition and appreciation, so that social impact, education and team science can be better brought to their notice? What action plan does the Cabinet have to achieve the internationally agreed Lisbon objectives to invest at least 3% of GDP in science and R&D? Mr. Chairman. An investment fund has been announced in the throne speech. It's been mentioned a few times today. Two more men seem to be fighting to become namesakes of that fund. I do have a suggestion for the cabinet: call it the fund for the future. It can be used for structural, generation-proof investments, such as structural money for research into the major societal issues. That's what you're gonna have to say again: alpha, beta, gamma and everything in between. I quote our previous colleague Alexander Rinnooy Kan once again: 'whoever thinks knowledge is expensive does not know what stupidity costs'. In the Millions Note, page 18, the government talks about knowledge development, R&D and innovation and infrastructure as areas that can contribute most to productivity growth. Has it been deliberately chosen not to talk about science in this respect? And what, according to the government, are the main pillars of productivity growth? In which sectors of the economy does it want to invest and how does the government integrate this with the challenges we have with the Climate Agreement and the nitrogen problem? Is the Prime Minister prepared to say that a significant part of the fund for the future, I would like to call it "science," so that we also meet the international Lisbon objectives? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u92	Thank you for your speech. I think we'll find each other a great deal of what you want. I am also pleased to hear that you think that science, alpha and gamma sciences should be able to move equally in the research exercise. I have just spoken about this fund for the future, if that is what we are going to call it. Do you agree with us that it might be a more efficient route not to set up a fund, but simply channel the money directly to the existing infrastructure for science and innovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u93	Mrs Vos, I actually think that the cabinet is now going to come up with a proposal on the governance of that fund. I actually think that's up to the cabinet now. However, you have given me the idea of asking the Cabinet if it would like to clarify, in a reasonable or very short period of time, what this governance will be like. As far as I am concerned, next year we will be discussing the first proposals from the fund at the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u94	Well, then I have a bit of a naughty question. There's a lot of money on the shelf right now. Suppose they don't come out, which they can, or it'll take a long time. Is it then possible that, in the meantime, we can channel some of the money that is really on that shelf, into the needy science, or at least into science? As you know, there are hundreds of scientists at the second and the first stream of money out there just to be able to do their research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u95	In my view, it is quite clear that, as far as my group is concerned, every possible euro goes to education, higher education and science in the broadest sense. That's what we're here for. We have always been clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u96	Please reconsider your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u97	I would like to emphasise that there has been a real negative trend. Actually, there has been a significant increase in investment since this cabinet, in the rise in teacher salaries, in making the pabo more accessible and in job pressures. But these large deficits have been built up over decades. You can't expect a cabinet to address such a big issue in two years. That is why I gave a compliment on the one hand and said on the other: and now move on. Because this is just something that we have to insist on every year. I do see a real change, a clear positive trend in what is happening now, contrary to what is sometimes claimed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u98	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u99	Mr. Chairman. For a number of years, there have been iPads in the green benches or people doing everything with those iPads. If even the First Chamber is digitized, you can assume that the rest of the world will not be waiting for long, even if our First Chamber was a precursor to digitalization. This means that people need to be digitally literate enough to find a meaningful path in this digital world. They need to be able to see what happens when you accept the terms or agreement of an app. After all, all kinds of artificial intelligence (AI), algorithms and the internet of things will have a wide impact on works, care, education, security, mobility, trade, our homes and actually all areas of social movement. AI touches the foundations of our rule of law and has an impact on constitutional values such as privacy, justice and not discrimination. In his recently released strategic vision for AI, the values "open, competitive, world class and ethical frameworks" are central to this cabinet. You only have to open a newspaper to see how technology companies like Facebook, Amazon, Uber and Google question the established order. Competitive, world class? Sure. But open and ethical frameworks? That's what's missing on a regular basis. The government itself also makes frequent use of algorithms, as illustrated in the current discussion about SyRI. We are here in The Hague, an international city of peace and security. The Netherlands should be the country that shows leadership in the development of responsible AI. That term "responsible" is an important addition. This requires an integrated vision of the state of law and these forms of technology. My group encourages the cabinet to speed up the development of a digital civil rights agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u100	That idea of the future chair really appealed to me. We ourselves have a party that does this all the time, and that actually thinks that the cabinet sits so little on that chair. Frankly, I have to say that my colleague from D66 is also sitting on that chair a little one-sided and overlooking a lot of things. I would also like to invite her to sit on that chair for mass immigration. What are the enormous consequences that will have for Europe and also for the Netherlands? Have a seat in that chair for Google and what Mr Bredenoord just said about it. You're questioning the establishment? On the contrary, I have the feeling that Google and all those online platforms are not doing that, that they are very difficult to tolerate that established order being called into question. The transparency of a multitude of expressions in the public debate is currently being cut off, driven by Europe, by the European Commission with its plans on disinformation and fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u101	What's your question, Mr. Cliteur?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u102	This is therefore not transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u103	It is a little difficult to distill out one question, except for the almost de-pot-blamed-the-boil-like remark that I have to deal with more themes. I'm already naming a few themes and there's gonna be a few more. I think you've already said enough about mass immigration. To be honest, I don't think that term is so appropriate in this house either. I do not feel called upon to say more about this now. I'm going further on Al.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u104	Mr Cliteur has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u105	What about the fake news? Why don't you sit on the chair with the fake news and the disinformation? Just before the recess, a report was issued by the Ministry of the Interior, in which, I believe, a retreating movement was made: after all, it did not turn out that the European elections were influenced by fake news and disinformation, nor by the state elections. A new term is now being introduced: it must all be transparent now. Well, then my question would be: what does that even mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u106	Mr Cliteur highlighted a very important issue. There has been a motion in the Lower House in which our Minister of the Interior was called upon to investigate whether the previous elections were affected. A study by the UvA shows that this is not the case. I'd say that's good news. But we shouldn't be naive that this can't happen. Let me just give you a random example. 2016, the U.S. presidential election. Cambridge Analytica. It is quite clear that state and non-state actors there are intended to influence elections. I'm following Alexandra... AOC, Representative of New York, on Twitter. This week she had an interview with Facebook boss Zuckerberg in which she mentioned some examples. Should it be possible that Facebook targeted, paid by an actor we don't know, targets specific groups, in this case African-Americans, where a very deliberately wrong election date is passed on, or where there is very consciously given a wrong date on these people's Facebook sites for the election registration? If we do that, the whole idea of open and fair elections, and hence the foundations of our democratic rule of law, will be under discussion. We cannot now say with one stroke of pens: this is how you can intervene. A government must never become the judge of what is and is not true news. You have to do something else for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u107	Mr. Cliteur, the last one at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u108	Who checks the fact-checkers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u109	Clear question. Mrs Bredenoord, and then you can continue your speech immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u110	It is too big a question to point exactly at people, but it has to be done. The European initiative for fact-checkers has been taken on the initiative of the Eastern European countries which are flooded by Russian trolls which all spread fake news via bot networks, precisely on the eastern borders of the European Union. That's actually some kind of electronic warfare. And yes, that is an undermining of the democratic rule of law. I think that's what you care about, too, so we need to do something about that. My question to the cabinet is therefore to make haste with the digital strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u112	What is the government's view on the regulation of technological enterprises? That fits nicely. Does the Cabinet share the view that standardisation of companies trading in data is feasible and effective only at European level? What vision does the Cabinet have of its role and responsibility to safeguard constitutional values, specifically in this context? What steps will the cabinet take to ensure appropriate legal and ethical frameworks, including internationally? Finally, what will be the monitoring of algorithms, even when it comes to the government? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. On major social issues, politics has often waited a very long time to discuss and implement the necessary reforms, until the shore turned. It seems to happen too often to us, now again to the problem of nitrogen. Let us not let that happen in our health care. After all, from the seat of the future, we want care and health to remain accessible and affordable for everyone in the near future, from the youngest to the oldest. This is under pressure, as rightly stated in the Millions Note. What is the government's strategy on this important issue? I sincerely regret that one of the most beautiful sectors to work in, which all Dutch people consistently characterize as very important and which is consistently of very high quality, also internationally, is often dismissed as the cuckoo cub of the rich budget. The design of our health care combined with social factors, such as ageing, patient rights and new, often expensive technology and medicines, raise ethical dilemmas where the cabinet will also have to put its teeth in. For example, we need to talk about overtreatment, while there are volume incentives that encourage and treat production. We need to talk about reducing the number of chronically ill and preventing chronic diseases. There is already a social dialogue on the adaptation of DNA from human embryos, what did the cabinet think of a social dialogue on joint decision-making in the care sector, especially in the last phase of life? I'd like a response. Let me also congratulate both VWS ministers on their initiatives in relation to staff shortages and expensive medicines. I know it's on your radar. But from the seat of the future you can still ask yourself whether there is enough urgency and whether you can manage with action plans. For example, the labour market is extremely tight throughout care and thezzp flight reinforces this problem. You want there to be enough hands on the bed both for the present generation and for newborns. What concrete measures does the government take to win and retain more people for care in the short term? Does the Cabinet believe that digital technology can play a role in this and, if so, in what form and in what timeframe? Special attention should be paid to youth care and youth-ggz from the future seat. Across the street, it has been promised that good agreements will be made with employees in these sectors. What is the state of play? How does the cabinet guarantee that the millions of extra will be well spent on youth care? Mr. Chairman. If you see the challenges that can be seen from the future seat, then you can only conclude that we need everyone to do so. This means that diversity and inclusion must also be high on the agenda. As a result, my group wonders which parts of the recent ESC opinion on diversity will be taken over by the cabinet in the summit. And does the government intend to adopt specifically the opinion on a quota in supervisory boards and, if so, will it apply this quota to its own holdings and non-listed companies? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. From the seat of the future, we would like to see a society with a democratic rule of law that is maintained in a timely and regular manner, with a sustainable economy, with space for art, culture, imagination and innovation, where everyone can be themselves and develop their talents, with political leaders who dare to raise difficult questions and themes in time, both at national, European and international level. We look forward to the exchange of views with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u113	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to congratulate my colleagues on the maiden speech. That's Mrs. Vos, Mr. Rosenmöller and Mr. Cliteur. And of course, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on his birthday. Congratulations. Mr. Chairman. The common man and ordinary woman have less and less to say about their lives. The political elite handed them over to the EU and the United Nations, which then determine most of the legislation and policies of global sharing and thinking. Just a little while from now on, we'll have to decide on the glass container. And if there is a law that we do deal with, such as the ban on burqa, it will be boycotted on all sides. The Islamic stronghold showed its true face and threatened not only with jihad, but also nikab wearing women with death when they had the guts to show their true face. And then useful idiots also claim that the burqa ban is a ban on free expression. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of the Interior didn't exactly run out of steam to roll out the burqa ban in practice. Apparently this former alderman of Amsterdam knew her pappenheimers and she foresaw that the mayors in the big cities would be mutiny. For example, Mayor Halsema in the Republic of Amsterdam, a.k.a. The Failed State of City, simply states not to want to maintain. That would be so out of line with the city and maintaining it is so right. According to her, the police would feel the same way and place counters outside the office, especially not to lure the farmers out of the tent. Well, that's what you get from years of eavesdropping. Mr. Chairman. If political leaders go to hell to enforce the law, we might as well shut the Senate down. It will be a difficult battle, because civil disobedience is at the highest level within our public administration. A professor of police studies and security issues of the Amsterdam VU states the following, following the climate demonstration of Extinction Rebellion. I quote: "Nothing great and compelling has happened without breaking status quo." End of quote. In fact, it's a call not to follow the rules. For example, the forbidden blockade at the Stadhouderskade was allowed and strengthened by the police, who indicated that the right to demonstration had to be respected. So we're gonna respect something that's forbidden. And finally, the mayor also went to defend civil disobedience. So we go from civil disobedience to administrative disobedience, your purest undermining of democracy. 'Cause where...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u115	I would like to ask Mr Faber the following question. I saw your colleague Geert Wilders standing on a tractor and people who were bourgeoisly disobedient heard that they were the heroes of the Netherlands. What is the relationship between you and demonstrating farmers or demonstrating climate protesters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u116	First of all, it was of course a fantastic picture that our party leader stepped on a tractor. There wasn't one here who did, because most political leaders in the House of Representatives thought it was too dangerous to go. But the most secure man in the Netherlands comes, goes there, mixes with the farmers and goes on a tractor. Farmers are a hard-working sector, with people always getting up for the day and the dew to make sure that our pantry is filled. That they all step on the trigger and go to the Malieveld, that says something, that the water is on the lips of this sector. They don't just do that, because they prefer to sit with the pigs in the barn or milk the cows under the cows. Those people don't need to go to Malieveld at all. So if they do, it says something and then politics has really failed. We must be very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u117	This is a fine argument, but it is not an answer to my question. I asked Mr Faber what was the difference between civil disobedience of farmers and civil disobedience of climate protesters. I would like to add immediately that you liked the speech made by your colleague Mr Wilders, but that it was not very consistent, because Mr Wilders said not very long ago that he had nothing to do with the bio-industry. When you call on some farmers from a tractor that they are the heroes of the Netherlands, that is a kind of multi-choice approach. Of course, that's a way to keep everyone friendly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u118	Mr. Koffeman's probably referring to the fact that the tractors weren't allowed on the Malieveld. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u119	Mr. Koffeman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u120	The question is now referred to more, but has not yet been answered. What kind of colleague Faber is the difference between people who are bourgeoisly disobedient at the Malieveld and those who are bourgeoisly disobedient at the Stadhouderskade?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u121	However, I would like to make it clear that it is true that the tractors should not have been allowed on the Malieveld, but they did have a permit to demonstrate, unlike the protesters of Extinction Rebellion, who did not have a permit to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u122	But they didn't crash fences and cause damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u123	Mrs Faber, resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u124	The farmers offered breakfast the following day to the inhabitants of The Hague to apologize for the damage and nuisance they caused. I haven't seen the environmentalists do that yet. Mr. Chairman. Why should we judge laws here if they are not enforced in practice? That is why, on behalf of my group, I shall table the next motion to the effect that political officers appointed by the government who do not implement the law should be removed from office. I'm just allowed to do that first-term. Would you please stop for a moment, Mr President, because I do not have a lot of speaking time. The President shall: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas legislation and regulations that have been democratically established and enforced should be implemented and enforced;]] [[that failure to implement democratically established laws and regulations undermines the democratic rule of law;]] [[noting that in practice some political ministers do not always enforce the law;]] [[calls on the Government to remove from office political officers appointed by government who do not implement the law;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-A]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. While the economy has been growing in recent years, households benefit very little from it. They are shipped off with a tip, while the fixed charges continue to rise. The cake must be shared with more and more people. With the agreement of the Marrakesh Treaty, things are not getting any better. While the influx of non-Western fortune seekers increases gross domestic product by 0.6%, this is only a paper growth. This growth is paid for entirely with the stolen money from the Dutch taxpayer, not by the lucky seekers themselves, who generally come for more than they bring. It is not for nothing that social security has become the largest item of expenditure. Mr. Chairman. Pensioners in particular are screwed. Year after year they contribute to purchasing power. Not only the rising rents, rising health care, rising energy bills, more expensive messages and so on, but also through rigid accounting rules that mercilessly undermine their pension, while the total pension capital has doubled. And so a third of the elderly avoids care and ends up in social isolation. Well, they are not criminal asylum seekers who have been tried out from a detention centre, because they are given full care, a day program for entertainment, fun computer games, hate literature, martial arts so that they can optimally prepare to return to society and then terrorize defenceless citizens without limit. Mr. Chairman. In order to complete the drama, Draghi was officially the President of the ECB, but in reality the Italian terminator of our pensions and our savings introduced the negative interest rate. In doing so, he introduces a kind of European tax on his own accord, a solidarity levy. After we have been cheated on by the euro, negative interest rates sneak open the back door of our pensions and savings to channel our hard-earned money to weak European countries, such as Italy. This is your purest mafia practice. And that the Dutch have checked, Draghi doesn't give a shit. He said we should figure it out ourselves. While the sharked finance minister was able to save the KLM, the cabinet cannot save our pensions. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet wants to drag us into a CO-predict psychosis. It wants us to believe that if we do not reduce CO emissions very quickly, we will all be victims of climate change. The only person who makes climate victims is the government itself, with a false presentation of things. Adults are talked into a guilt complex and children are terrified. Mr. Pastor used to do that, so that people were willing to buy a indulgence, so that the soul was purified. Now you can buy off airplane shame, we have to drive electric, we have to eat less meat and preferably no meat at all, less dairy, no ice cream and no packages for free returns. Mr. Chairman. House prices are not only driven by mass immigration, but also by all kinds of sustainability rules. Isolation, HR boilers, okay, we've been doing this for years. But forced off the gas while surrounding countries subsidised to go to the gas is madness. The Dutch government wants to transport gas to everyone, but not to Dutch households. No, she'd rather send us back in time to the time before the coals. She now mercilessly chops down our CO-slobberas, sometimes oak trees over 100 years old, and then, together with billions of euros of tax money, mercilessly burns them off in the biomass plants. Part of the fauna, which flies in the air and swims in the sea is crushed or crazy quivered by uneconomic windmills. Fertile farmland is sacrificed to solar parks, it would all be good for the climate. Mr. Chairman. Efficient h-boilers need to clear the field for raging, flow-slurping heat exchangers that keep the whole neighborhood out of their sleep. That could be fun in the years to come. Homeowners already have concerns about the towering bill ahead, which can reach up to €100,000 per home. Thank you, Prime Minister. And not only thanks to Rutte, but also to VVD, CDA, D66, GroenLinks, ChristenUnion, Party for Animals and SGP, who even asked for the mandatory gas connection to be dropped in the new buildings. And eventually 50PLUS and the SP also went through the pump. These parties literally and figuratively put their supporters in the cold. Mr. Chairman. Despite a screaming shortage of homes, this government prefers to remove three homes from the gas than to build one new home. You'll just be that working man who's forced into the dayless shelter, or that older couple who kiss each other at night in the hallway good night, because the shelter doesn't have any provision for couples. While they still know the generation that brought the Netherlands back from the rubble, with only the Tientje van Lieftinck. But at least that was more than Rutte's fake thousand. And then you didn't see any economic migrants panting at the gate. Mr. Chairman. If you still have a bit of hope for your own home, the construction goes down, because the whole of the Netherlands is locked by suffocating nitrogen rules. This does not apply to the 40 million devouring renovations of an azc to accommodate 1,200 asylum seekers. These are asylum seekers, who then flow through when the first released homes are released. And if they don't get a status, they can go to the shelter for undocumented people at civilian mother Halsema. Or maybe they could ask a GroenLinkssenator to fill out their asylum application creatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u126	I'm interested in listening to the bullshit. I'm just using a term from my colleague. I would call it an argument myself. I am surprised to see how Mrs Faber, in the end, always manages to get to the idea that an asylum seeker did it with a wrong faith on every subject, from her-boil, nitrogen to the name of it. That's good, because it takes a lot of thinking. What is it in Mrs Faber's party that one is not so creative that one can think that problems have causes, sometimes even multiple causes? Does the PVV group really believe that we would not have all those problems you mentioned if we did not have asylum seekers in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u127	I think we had a lot less trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u128	You can say that again. I can also say that you have a North African look, but you don't have it yet. You can put it that way. I ask you a question, and Parliament's idea is that you answer that and not that you give back a you-bowl.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u129	I think I've given you an answer. It's just the facts. I can't help it if they keep building an azc, can I? This can be done with the present problem of nitrogen, but the rest of the construction is closed. That's just the facts. I'm not making it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u130	If we stop building that azc, then the nitrogen problem will be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u131	No, that didn't solve the problem. I'm just saying there are different ways of doing things. There is, however, some arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u132	Mr. Kox, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u133	My initial question remains: how does the PVV come up with the brilliant idea that whatever happens in the world, the foreigner has done it? Stay away from Feyenoord? That's gotta be what the foreigners are after. Nitrogen? Must be from an azc. At the PVV, which likes to say that you always have to doubt all scientific things, it is always the case: whatever the problem is, a foreigner has always done it. Isn't that too simple, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u134	I did not say at all that it is always the foreigner who causes the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u135	Look, that's profit!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u136	No, I didn't say that at all. You may hear it this way, everyone has their own world of experience. You have one, and I have one. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u137	Please continue your speech, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u138	In the past, the government has been very cleverly involved in the construction of the European patchwork of Natura 2000 sites. In order to keep nature on these terrains, the nitrogen has to go down drastically, with the result that the construction is shut down. Authorisations are no longer granted to companies. We need to slow down, or rather not at all. A large part of the farms need to be cleaned up. Meanwhile, the same government is filling our puddles with polluted European sludge and having producers of cheap fuel oil process chemical waste. This waste comes from all over the world and is then sprayed into the air by half of the world's marine fleet. This continues to this day, due to the lack of adequate regulation and lack of enforcement. In the cool country of Rutte, all this can be done. But our farmers must suffer. They're being exposed as some kind of environmental criminal. If you're unlucky, your company will just be occupied by brutal animal activists. As a farmer, you don't have enough on your mind to fill our pantry with top quality food. Meanwhile, the couch is breathing down your neck and the government is making you miserable with suffocating regulations. This government with CDA and Christian Union in its ranks wants to take half of the farmers, including their beautiful cattle, to the slaughter. Despite the agreement on the reform of pig farmers in North Brabant, which this cabinet presents the Climate Agreement with far-reaching consequences for farmers, the Minister for Agriculture claims to be very tough: as long as I am Minister of Agriculture, there will be no halving of livestock. Do you still believe it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u139	A little correction. The Christian Union has never argued for a halving of livestock, not even in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u140	Can I conclude, then, that the Christian Union is also going to advocate just keeping all these beautiful cattle and the farmers alive and that our farmers can farmers again? If you want to make this commitment, I think all the farmers in the country are very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u141	All farmers alive: all right, please! As far as livestock is concerned, of course, we must look closely at how farmers can earn a good living and pass on their farms to the new generation. That's a complicated task. I support the cabinet to come up with sensible measures for this and not to make any silly comments like halving or even crazier, because it makes a lot of farmers' families insecure, where it is not necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u142	Mrs Faber, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u143	I'm hearing a nuance, so she's starting to back down. The government prefers to fill farmers' fertile farmland with solar panels and windmills, which in turn drives up the energy bill. Let's go, another break in purchasing power. What a destruction of our beautiful farmland! What a destruction of our prosperity! It's for crying. Rutte doesn't want them to have it. He himself states that he cannot reassure the farmers and that the cabinet does not shy away from taboos. In plain language: I do what I do and I don't care about you. For example, the VVD becomes the sidecar of the left, green Netherlands and rumbles us into the socialist state of salvation, where there is no place for farmers, but for hundreds of thousands of happiness seekers. This has to stop. The borders must be closed, the illegals out, the double-national criminals must be taken away and turned off, so that we can breathe again. Why is there no discussion about population pressure and its disastrous consequences? The Prime Minister himself says not to shy away from taboo. I'd like a response. Why should we include hundreds of thousands of people who often hate our way of life and want to serve us in the name of Allah? It's the purest self-destruct! The Golden Age lies in the past and the poorhouse in the future. This government, the EU's errand boy, will continue until we are financially exhausted and culturally demolished. We should be ashamed of our sea heroes. For example, a former PvdA senator in her capacity as alderman in Eindhoven took the lead to transform the Witte de Withstraat into Barbarossastraat. She didn't pick the name herself. No, she spent it on the neighborhood residents. They chose Barbarossa, a Turkish, Islamic pirate who plundered ships and sold the passengers as slaves. Many slaves were traded on the largest slave market in the world, Istanbul. Others waited a gruesome fate in the slave pits of Morocco or elsewhere on the coasts of Barbary. Never heard an apology about it, which apparently all fit in with the context of that time. There is a jihad going on against the West and especially against all women. While the D66 Minister with emancipation in her portfolio is concerned about gender-neutral toys and all kinds of women's quotas, girls and women are sexually assaulted in the pool and semi-undressed Bushmen are sports girls. Instead of sending the Bushmen back to Verweggistan, the bushes are cut down. Across the country, the cabinet is doing well by releasing €52 million for the promotion of women's rights, but women are imprisoned, abused, sold, married and circumcised in their own countries. Femmes for Freedom reports that this is often accompanied by knowledge of school or doctor, or there you have them again the halal-certified police. For the record, these women are subject to Dutch law and not to Sharia. In the Netherlands, these cases are simply punishable. Why isn't there an intervention here? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. We hang ourselves by our own rules. Whether it is about reducing pensions, the so-called climate problem, or mass immigration. The borders are wide open, while our financial burden is only increasing. The government wants us to change our behavior on various fronts. Lighting the barbecue to grill a few carbonads is almost a crime. The only one left to grill is the Grillmeister himself. Meanwhile, halalkadavers are sold on the street and the rest of the population has to the worms or the soya beans. It would all be diversity, but for our culture there is no place anymore and Black Piet should be in the bag, linea recta back to Spain. Churches are destroyed, smeared with poop and burned down. Jews can barely go on the street with a yarmulke and for a while, then all women without headscarf can hardly go on the street. We are held responsible for all the misery in the world. Is it not an issue that other countries and cultures have simply failed? This cabinet, together with the EU and the UN, wants to reduce the differences by weakening us, but the failure of the other one remains. We do not want our beautiful land to be inhabited by the whole world. We do not want our free country to be occupied by Islam. We want to control our lives, both in front of and behind the front door. The PVV is not going to keep this cabinet in the saddle for a few crumbs from the government table. With us it is: borders close are close, the EU is from the EU and Islam is Islam. We continue to fight for our ideals, our freedom and our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u144	Thank you, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u145	I would just like to point out that my group is very uncomfortable with Mrs Faber's fact-free insulting bulldozer. I am not going to ask a question about that either, because that makes no sense. But I'd like you to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u146	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u147	Mr President, may I respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u148	Mrs Faber, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u149	Because, of course, a statement is being made. Mrs Bredenoord says "fact-free." What do you mean "fact-free"? Then what's wrong? Then can you tell me what's wrong? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u150	I don't think you're going to get an answer, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u151	Yeah, but that... Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u152	You're gonna have to do it with that. My predecessor said, "Tant piss." Yeah, I learned it all well in those years!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u153	While listening to Mrs Faber's speech, I had a strong impression that she did not agree with everything, but I tried to find out if there might be something in her view. Can I challenge Mrs Faber to just mention one thing she likes in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u154	Mrs Faber, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u155	Of course, I have to respond in a proper way for a while, because I was thinking, "Where is Mr. Schalk?" 'Cause you always show up when I'm talking and I've been waiting a little bit for you. What I love about this country is that we have at least a real opposition party in this country that doesn't go with Mr. Rutte and his associates. We also received some help from the Forum, because Mr Cliteur of course gave a fantastic maiden speech, very critical of Islam. We're a little tighter at the point of Islam. I admit that, but still, it's a start. Maybe Mr. Cliteur can still grow into a real kind of PVV guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u156	It's great that we heard something positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u157	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u158	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I would like to begin by congratulating those who made a maiden speech: Mr Cliteur, Mr Rosenmöller and Mrs Vos. I am, of course, looking forward to the forthcoming contributions by Mr Otten and Mr Gerbrandy, whom I congratulate in advance. Of course, my congratulations to Secretary of State Snel. I would like him to be at least as old as the SGP, of which we were able to celebrate a fine milestone today. I would also like to congratulate you on that. Mr President, then there are general considerations. We live in a prosperous country with good care, accessible education, full employment and a high level of security. On a global scale, the Netherlands is a small delta that thrives economically and where it is incredibly good life for many. Those who look around will find that there is much to be thankful for, not complacent but grateful, with full awareness that wealth gives a responsibility. We all feel this is exciting. We see Brexit developments and the consequences for European cooperation and we see geopolitical power relations shifting. In addition, there is a great question of whether economic growth can go hand in hand with enough space for nature, for biodiversity. Can it go hand in hand with good stewardship of this earth? Does our current way of life, our culture, offer enough connection and solidarity between young and old, poor and rich, healthy and sick? What kind of Netherlands will these children of State see in 30 years' time? Five trends are evident in the reports of the Social and Cultural Planning Agency: ageing, individualisation, urbanisation, climate change and biodiversity reduction. In the social state of the Netherlands all five are clearly substantiated. Behind these five trends lies a world of challenges, whether it is about affordability of care, pensions, education or tackling nitrogen, CO and the recovery of nature. For the summer, with the conclusion of the Climate Agreement, this cabinet has taken a good first step towards one of the greatest challenges of our time: climate change. We need to reduce our ecological footprint and take better care of creation. We've been living on the puff for too long, influencing the climate and making up the raw materials that the Earth offers us at a rapid rate. The Climate Agreement takes important first steps. It's the start; now the sequel. What does the Cabinet intend to achieve in any event during this period? How does it maintain the sense of urgency to actually combat the pollution of the earth? What will be the results of the coming cabinet years? When will the Prime Minister be satisfied? I'd like a clear insight. My group is therefore not concerned with correct accounting, but with measures that really lead to better care for creation. It is now really important to take concrete steps with broad support in society. How does the cabinet promote this broad support? How does the cabinet keep clear what exactly is the problem we are tackling, what is needed for it, who is to bring it up and, if possible, what is the social profit we are making? Those who read the SCP reports know that the challenge lies not only in meeting certain legal standards or treaty standards. No, it begins with confidence in the government, with clear measures that can be carried out by citizens and businesses. How does the government ensure that the problem and the solution remain a shared matter? What effects will people experience in the coming years? And I'm not just talking about the financial effects. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister about that. Mr. Chairman. What it is much less about is the trend of double ageing. Of course, this has been in the policy papers for many years, but the scale and consequences are then limited. The Netherlands will know more and more elderly people in the coming years. We're gonna look like Japan in terms of population composition. One in four inhabitants is 65-plus and the proportion of 80-plussers is increasing even faster. In addition to the wise implementation of the pension agreement, this requires much and much more. What kind of society do we want to be in 20 years' time? Is that a society where there is noticeable and palpable that we are grateful for the generations that built this land? What's it gonna take? And do we have enough of that in the picture? The Christian Union wants the government to be committed to growing up worthy, not only in care, not only in the housing market, but in the eyes of society as a whole. Ageing also has an impact on the tightness of the labour market, on education and social security, on the time, space and appreciation needed to take care of each other. Ageing is therefore something other than old age policy. The Christian Union Group asks the Cabinet for a clear vision and cabinet-wide policy that reflects this and which the various ministries involved are clearly involved in. I would like a concrete commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber, we check, among other things, by means of new laws, whether they are contrary to the Constitution. The focus will soon be on classical fundamental rights, freedoms. That's a big and important good. The fundamental rights that are much less mentioned are fundamental social rights, whereas those are the fundamental rights that are the issues I have just mentioned: promoting housing, public health, the environment and access to justice. These fundamental social rights are not the sweet sugar layer of public policy. No, they are a genuinely firm incentive for the government in making legislation and then policies. Then these assignments will be implemented in concrete terms. In all the good words about our Constitution, and when we say it is a living document, we should be able to make more reference to the incentive of fundamental social rights in the drafting and drafting of legislation. And we should also be more aware of that. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. For example, I refer to Article 18 of the Constitution. It says: "Everyone can be assisted in legal and administrative proceedings." Paragraph 2 states: "The law lays down rules on the granting of legal aid to people with disabilities." Now one can argue dryly and say: the laws and regulations are there. However, we have been discussing the legal aid that has been financed for many years now and many reports have shown that a change in the system is important and takes a long time, but it is not enough to alleviate the need. No additional funds have been released for 2020 either. The sustainability of the legal aid financed, and in particular the social legal profession, has been under too much pressure for too long. The Christian Union Group does not want to wait until the new system of 2024, of which not all the contours are yet clear. People with a small scholarship should have good access to justice in the intervening years, with legal assistance at level. That is real access to justice. I ask the cabinet to face up to what is needed in the coming years and to come up with on-speaking terms with the legal profession. If we can't solve this in years of high-end economics, when can we? I'd like an answer that's gonna tear this case apart. Mr. Chairman. I started this contribution with the many that we should be grateful for in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u160	I would like a clarification from Mrs Bikker on fundamental rights and the review, in particular on fundamental social rights. We have classical fundamental rights and we have fundamental social rights. I think it is a good idea for us to look at these fundamental social rights in terms of direct principals of state policy. But that's something other than allowing the judge to check it out. The moment you do that, you actually run out of the Chamber's budget and let your judges make all kinds of political decisions that belong in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u161	Mr Cliteur knows even better than I do, given his eminent state, that we have a prohibition of scrutiny, Article 120 Constitution. You can talk about that. The Remkes State Commission is doing the same, and I have thoughts about that, but that is not the point. I am concerned that we have a costly Constitution, of which we hardly even mention fundamental social rights at the time when, for example, there is housing policy; we are talking about care and we are talking about caring for the labour market. I think that this is a very clear statement of the role of the public authorities in these fundamental rights. It is not up to the courts to decide how far that government should go, nor is it in those fundamental rights. But it is up to us as guardians of our constitution to ensure that constitution remains a living document.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u162	Please reconsider your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started this contribution with the many things we are grateful for in the Netherlands and I think that the democratic rule of law can be found at the top of our list for each of us. At the same time, we find our state system so self-evident that there is insufficient consideration of the value of the maintenance needed by the democratic rule of law. The Christian Union Group welcomes the additional contribution to justice. That was badly needed, because there's overdue maintenance. Resources have also been announced for countering undermining. The events in recent months have underlined the importance of serious crime in the Netherlands. We support the government in its tough approach. The Netherlands must not be a narcostat. But in the meantime, she is the exporter of synthetic drugs and in too many places people are confronted with the nasty consequences of drug crime. This requires a firm, comprehensive and, above all, structural commitment. Both in terms of human strength and in terms of finance, we will not be able to solve it with a short blow. However, I get the impression from the budget that the extra commitment to undermining is all occasional money. The Christian Union Group advocates a structural commitment and asks the cabinet if it can deliver it. We would like to see more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u164	I think it is an extremely interesting part of a fine speech by Mrs Bikker. My question is whether there is any discussion with the Christian Union Group about the suggestion I made to think, particularly in this area, because it is such a crucial part of maintaining the rule of law, about a more consistent form of funding for those organisations of the rule of law, such as the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, justice and legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u165	First of all, thank you for the compliment. Yes, I strongly advocate the proper maintenance of our democratic rule of law. I think that in the past, in the austerity operations that were needed, it has been said all too easily: we are pulling one large cheese dish across all ministries without looking at the core tasks of the government. I'm talking about the Justice Department, but I'm also talking about the IRS. There are a number of core tasks in which the government must never fail and always be trustworthy. You can talk to me about that. At the same time, I say that, unlike previous Cabinets, this cabinet has drawn the wallet again for that recovery. So: yes, I want to talk about it and yes, I want to secure it more firmly, but no, it's not a blank check.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u166	That's not what I'm asking at this stage. I'm really interested in the serious conversation. It is actually a question of whether you can secure a form of constant funding for this crucial part of the rule of law so that you can say goodbye to what Chief Akerboom calls "jojo policy."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u167	That's the same question again. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u168	I have just said that there is certainly something to talk about with me. I can also imagine this following a new coalition formation and now being examined what useful handles can be used to set that up. So now we're gonna investigate these things and then we're gonna keep the good together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u169	Please reconsider your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. This millions note is on the last full year of government of the Rutte III cabinet. So it is also the year in which the cabinet can take important steps in implementing the government agreement. I would like to mention three who are very close to my group. Already under a previous cabinet, the Law on Prostitution and Combating Misdemeanours continued to stab the sex sector in this house. Since then, we have been waiting for an improved law, and it is urgently needed. This is also reflected in the reports of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings last week. I have understood in the informal consultation of the Secretary of State himself that the new law, as announced in the government agreement, has now gone into consultation. I'm really asking the Cabinet for an emergency. When do you want this law dealt with? The abuses are too great to wait for another round of elections and formation. I almost see it as a matter of honor that we are going to get it done in this round of Cabinets. The coalition agreement also talks about the broad approach to homelessness. Very good. But the figures show a worrying increase. It will require strong commitment from different directors to address the various underlying problems of debt, the lack of housing, work and good support. Can the Prime Minister promise that this will happen across the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, there has already been a lot of talk in this House and by my group about marginal pressure and the difference between one and two earners. What is really left of a wage increase that someone receives? The Council of State urges the Cabinet to continue to make real work of reducing marginal pressure and to make this clearer. What is the Cabinet going to do with this clear opinion from the Council of State, except that the answer is that it will continue to pay attention to it? You understand that my group is hoping for more. Mr. Chairman. I started this contribution with the question of whether the growth of economy and prosperity is sustainable in the long term. The problem of nitrogen determines us that we have missed it too easily for too long. We reap the fruits of previous choices. It will require time and sensible use of measures that actually have an effect on finding a solution to this knot, but also to avoid uncertainty where possible. It makes it clear that new policies must not be the power of economic progress, but the power of healthy creation and society. It is precisely if we want to give this country good and, if possible, even more flourishing to the next generations that that is the task. The group of the Christian Union prays for a blessing from our good God for you, the cabinet and all those in this country who seek the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u171	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u172	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate my fellow group chairmen on their maiden speech, the Secretary of State for his birthday, the halfway cabinet halfway through the term, I mean, it is not that bad either, and the Prime Minister that he started the tenth year of his prime minister's presidency. We were there together at the party it's just a reminder how it started with the CDA and, yes, the PVV. Then the Prime Minister switched to the Labour Party, then proposed to the Christian Union, the CDA and D66 and now he is sitting here in this Chamber, laughing as always, knowing that he will have to find new friends to complete his policy. I wonder whether the Prime Minister is looking for more or less permanent dating or whether he prefers the one-night stand. We'll see. Either way, Mr. President, today we are discussing the government's plans. We will decide later on on the separate budget chapters and the Tax Plan. If the government wants to make its law here, it will have to get a lot of groups with it. That has been the case for a long time and certainly applies in our new composition. Actually, Mr. Chairman, there's nothing wrong with that. After all, the First Chamber is not so much there to find the good, for that we have the Second Chamber, but to prevent the bad. For example, a wise predecessor of this Prime Minister said so in 1848. This must apply to every group: what is good can go on, what is bad must go on. Mr. Chairman. As always, the votes of my group are available for any proposal in line with our principles. Any proposal that protects or promotes human dignity, equality of people and solidarity between people can count on our support. Unfortunately, the rest of us have to do without it. Mr. Chairman. This time the Prime Minister did not only hear from the left that the neoliberal legitimacy of his "more market and less government" policy had its best time. We heard the group chairman of the CDA there saying that never before have so many parties distanced themselves from individualism and neoliberalism. Exactly, I thought. We heard the leader of the VVD there saying that the market is no longer the solution to every problem and that we should dare to think about whether employees should not share in the profits of large companies, as proposed by my party colleague Lilian Marijnissen. Well, well, well, well, well. We heard D66 in the Lower House pleading for a millionaire tax. Yeah, I told you. And we heard the CDA there finding that cutting off the housing corporations of the government has gone wrong on balance and that the care does not seem to lend itself to market forces. Look who's talking, I thought. Mr. Chairman. You understand how happy I am with that turn to the left. In any case, my party believes that the economic laws of capitalism should no longer determine the margins within which politics can operate. This is undemocratic, unfair and unwise. Socialists want to move on a compass that does not lead to profit for few, but to prosperity and well-being for all. But our prime minister is not a socialist. Is he therefore concerned about turning the political tide? How does it feel when your own troops dump the neoliberal market thinking that for years was the compass on which your cabinets were heading? On the other hand, what are you going to do other than go along with the tide if you want to continue as Prime Minister? This Prime Minister is very keen to do so, so the Prime Minister stops handing out money to the wealthy of them, rather with every fibre he thought it would be good for all of us. We do not hear him anymore about the dividend tax, he postpones a year's reduction in the tax on profits, he warns his multinational friends not to keep everything to himself and even supports the SP call to increase wages in large companies by 5%. It shouldn't get weirder, you'd almost think. But no matter how you turn it, the Prime Minister is also turning. And I like to see that. The question is, does it turn because it has to or does it turn because it wants to? We can do that, too. This Prime Minister, as has been said, is not a socialist but also a liberal can conclude that a significantly greater role for the community in general and the government in particular is inevitable in order to provide our population with sustainable better opportunities for a more secure future. And a liberal can also understand that it is not right that in our country the richest 10% now hold two thirds of the total wealth, and the poorest 10% have more debt than assets. In this connection, may I say to the Prime Minister that I am disappointed that his government has so far not been prepared to achieve a quantitative reduction in child poverty in our country, which is a great disgrace? Yesterday we received a new letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, for which I thank her, but which I also note is that, after three years of debate and two motions adopted in this Chamber, the government still does not want to do what this Chamber wants. I therefore propose that we now have a separate debate with the government on how to tackle child poverty. This Chamber is rightly reluctant to make any motions. That is precisely why the government must understand that adopted motions are serious. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn briefly to some important issues. With the decision to speed up the cessation of gas extraction in Groningen, the government is showing courage. Compliments. Last year I was allowed to award the SP-Rooe Reus Prize to the people of the Groninger Soil Movement, who lead the way for a safer living environment and justice for the people of Groningen. I know they are pleased with the government's decision, but they remain angry that their interests have been ignored for so long and that the demands of Shell and Exxon regarding gas extraction in Groningen have been given priority. We should never have put these multinationals on the buttons of national gas extraction, so that they could put their own interests above the safety of the Groningen people. Mr. Chairman. The government will also have to intervene in companies that continue to emit an irresponsible amount of CO. Dangerous global warming cannot be tackled effectively if we do not restrict the freedom of production of, above all, multinational companies. In particular, young people worldwide are calling for this kind of intervention by governments. Very good. Twenty multinationals worldwide are responsible for the emission of one third of all CO. They're making a profit for our well-being. Among them, Shell and Exxon. Recently we also know that the 50 largest oil groups in the world want to flood the market together in the coming years with 7 million barrels of extra oil a day, despite all the beautiful climate talks on that side. Among them, Shell and Exxon. Because Shell is a Dutch company, our government should call the group management a watchdog. And why should we allow Exxon to take advantage of our gas for another day if it continues to produce shamelessly greenhouse gas? Mr. Chairman. The production of too much nitrogen also requires strong intervention in production processes. Leaving this to the free play of social forces is not an option for us. Farmers, construction workers and residents are entitled to a government that acts clearly and decisively. So far, they've mainly seen a government sticking its head in the sand. There's gonna be big accidents. Concerns about future pension reductions are increasing, as is the understanding that full adherence to the calculation rate system is short-sighted. It is high time that the Minister of Social Affairs replaced the rigid accounting rate with a more realistic variant. Or is the government thinking about increasing the AOW to compensate for the reductions on the pension? Now that a political majority prefers to lose the loan system rather than being rich, because it puts students in debt and has adverse effects on the participation of young people in education, it would be politically courageous if this government acted upon it as soon as possible. The Economic and Social Council is considering an alternative. What does the Prime Minister know about that? Mr. Chairman. Protection of the international legal order is a constitutional task for every Dutch government. Accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights will strengthen that international legal order. Ten years after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, that promise must be fulfilled by now. It would be good if our government took the lead in this. The protection of an international legal order aimed at peace, security and progress for all increasingly clashes with the brutal use of economic and military power. Take Turkey's military aggression against the Kurds in Syria. Should we not suspend, I ask the government, an ally who defies international law as a member of NATO? And is it not time for an up-to-date global security architecture when NATO is raging and old agreements, such as the INF Treaty, are put aside by great powers? Mr. Chairman. "We are struggling worldwide with the negative effects of globalisation and new technologies, increasing inequality in society," says UN Secretary General Guterres. He points to global protests and wants more work to be done on fair globalisation, better social ties and the climate crisis. "With solidarity and smart policies, leaders can show that they understand "and show the path to a fairer world," he says. What does our government say to that? Are we in solidarity? Are we smart? Mr. Chairman. This Chamber wants to anchor our democratic rule of law in the Constitution, and that is good. But there are increasing concerns about the quality of both democracy and the rule of law. On democracy, we now have the opinion of the Parliamentary System Committee. We look forward to treating it. It is not good that the government still does not have a coherent response to the report, but that it is already firing off state-law blanks. Nor would an opinion of a state committee on the rule of law be inappropriate. Or should this Chamber perhaps carry out its own parliamentary inquiry? Here together we have repeatedly expressed concerns about the state of our rule of law, about the independence of the judiciary and about the apparent inability to put the national police in order and to tackle organised crime, as well as about the threat that the legal profession will no longer be available to people with little money, which is contrary to the wish of this Chamber to include the right to a fair trial in our Constitution. Does the Prime Minister share our concerns? And then what's his plan of action? Finally, Mr President. The budget as it stands is not ours; you already knew that. The Prime Minister knows, too. On the other hand, together with the GroenLinks groups and the Labour Party, we have put forward proposals leading to a better budget. In summary, the low VAT rate goes to 6% and the top rate of profit tax to 30% and there will be a higher bank tax, a millionaire tax for the largest assets and a tax reduction for small assets. Furthermore, the minimum wage goes up by 2.5%, the own risk is cut in half and there are higher salaries in education, care, police and social law. Plus: more money for local authorities, an investment fund for housing, the removal of the landlord's tax on additional construction, sustainability or rent reduction, a higher energy tax for large consumers and a lower tax for small consumers. Sure, that's not nothing, but it's pretty much something to do. It requires a shift of over 6 billion on a budget of over 300 billion. Can the Prime Minister, in the context of making friends, indicate to what extent he intends to be able to do things with our groups across the street? The more he meets us there, the greater the likelihood of support here in the decision-making process in December on the budget chapters and, in particular, on the Tax Plan. Mr. Chairman. Anyway, I am curious about the Prime Minister's response and his vision of how this country can move forward after ten years of Rutte. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u173	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u174	Thank you, Mr President. There are many ways this year during the APB we can talk about small talk. We can talk about the many barn fires, with 176,000 animals dying this year, under the most stressful conditions. Or about the lack of supervision and enforcement by the NVWA, allowing 300 problem farmers to systematically mistreat and neglect their animals for years without anyone interfering. Or that this year we had already used up Earth's reserves on 29 July and we are now in the red. Or the fact that in this country you can be a farmer better than a climate demonstrant if you want to count on an understanding, positive attitude by politicians, politicians and the press. In all the problems mentioned, small talk and small talk are part of the problem. Although the Minister of LNV says he knows no taboos in solving the nitrogen problem, the holy cow remains the elephant in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. On Princess Day, we saw an optimistic finance minister. The Dutch economy is still robust, he said. Of course, it is good news that the previous economic valley is behind us. However, the Millions note shows a very one-sided economic logic. As long as the GDP grows, the e.g. the Netherlands is doing well. One of the smallest paragraphs in the Millions Note was reserved for the climate: EUR 200 million has been earmarked by the Cabinet for our future, in addition to the amounts already committed. We read literally: "The Climate Agreement creates a sustainable Netherlands." Nothing could be further from the truth. We have only 15% of the biodiversity that we had at the beginning of the last century. The cabinet is remarkably laconic underneath. Despite the PAS crisis, despite the pfas crisis and despite climate change, the idea of "who lives, who cares." More than 50 years ago, there were the first signs that there is literally shit going on in livestock farming. We feed 100 million consumers in 140 countries with animal proteins produced in our country. We are the second exporter of agricultural products in the world. You can be proud of that, but you can also see the impossibility of it. The Prime Minister knows the problem. As early as 2009 group chairman Rutte in the House of Representatives said: "I have always had great difficulty with the bio-industry, with the accumulation of animals in a humane way. Animal welfare is very high for us on the wish list. You can always contact us for this." I would like to remind the Prime Minister of this commitment and call on it today, now that it is now clear that it is no longer just about animal welfare, but also about climate, nitrogen, biodiversity loss and an agricultural sector in which farmers are in massive decline at the race to the bottom. Seven farmers have to stop every day. Mr. Chairman. The PAS. What seemed to be Columbus' egg ten years ago, and a pearl of peasant cleverness from the tube of Diederik Samsom and Ger Koopmans, does not seem to stand up in court. As predicted by the PvdD, paper reality is now overtaken by real reality. Now there's panic in the tent. Expanding a stable, building a road, building a residential area near a Natura 2000 site; it is no longer possible. The nitrogen rules have been ignored for years, and now we're in trouble. Yesterday's reconstruction in the Volkskrant speaks volumes about this, as well as Yvonne Hofs' analysis on 19 October, in which the nitrogen crisis is described as one major déjà vu: an overview of 50 years of procrastination. There is no point in doubting the measurements of the RIVM. The Netherlands is the nitrogen champion of Europe. The fact is that 45% of that nitrogen comes from agriculture. On the Veluwe Knuckles in the nest break all their legs. The Dutch heath grasses and disappears. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet did what it always does in crisis situations: set up a committee to take a good look at it. No taboos: everything was negotiable, even the shrinkage of livestock. Well, anything but Schiphol and Lelystad. We're gonna have to come up with a ruse for that. The control towers are already ready at Lelystad Airport. The first traffic controllers are already being trained. The formula 1 in Zandvoort appears untouchable, because there is nothing more beautiful than "vroom" to hear on 3 May, says Minister Bruins. Despite the fact that the Netherlands is locked up, the opinions of the Remkes Committee are very cautious. Too careful. Remkes proposes to buy out the most polluting companies in vulnerable natural areas. That is a good start, but it does not guarantee that all polluting megas will be dealt with. The Party for Animals also disagrees with the advice to further invest in air scrubbers in stables, as pot-tight stables are fire-sensitive and unethical. The time is ripe for fewer megasthals and no more. Is the government prepared to include a drastic reduction in livestock as a policy instrument, especially now that one of the coalition parties mentions halving livestock as a reasonable starting point to solve these problems? I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Agriculture has been waiting for 20 years for a minister who doesn't stick with figures, but who dares to cut the buttons; a governer who listens to the advisory bodies that have been pointing out for years that the government's climate and nature goals can never be met if the Netherlands continues to breed and kill 650 million animals a year. This cabinet can subtract the patch at once by opting for a substantial shrinkage of the livestock. That doesn't mean we're going to have to take our animals to the slaughter house massively. The rate of circulation of our livestock is so high that you are already where you should be because of a breeding ban after a few months. Why do we not use the budget surplus for a warm clean-up of livestock farming? With an amount of around EUR 6 billion, we can halve the number of chickens and pigs in the Netherlands. The CO target and the necessary nitrogen reduction will be seen in this way. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to the possibilities of an involuntary shrinkage of livestock. Mr. Chairman. With all the attention paid to angry farmers, we would almost forget that there are also farmers who have been working for a long time to convert to animal-friendly, sustainable and plant-based farming. Is the Cabinet prepared to actively promote such initiatives? VVD and CDA cause serious problems for farmers by agreeing to free trade agreements such as Mercosur and CETA. My party is fighting hard against the Mercosur deal with Brazil, to prevent the Amazon forest from being hijacked further and cheap steak and poultry will flood the Dutch market at the expense of Dutch entrepreneurs and farmers, just as we saw earlier with Ukrainian puff chickens. Mercosur is oil on fire. Mr. Chairman. Back to the Millions note. The Netherlands is more than purchasing power and gross national product. It is time for a different view of the world, in which not economic growth is the main goal, but more nature, clean air, silence, leisure time and good health. Those are values that can't be expressed in money, but you don't miss them until you don't have them anymore. In all the decisions we make as a parliament, we have to take into account what we can afford. This applies not only in the financial sense, but also when we look at the effects on the well-being of humans, animals, nature and the environment. Is the Prime Minister prepared to look at the Invest-NL investment fund to be set up to rule out the fact that it will invest in projects that have a negative social or environmental impact? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a short question about SyRI, the System Risk Indication. Does the Cabinet share the view that terms such as "deprived neighbourhoods," "low income" and "problem neighbourhoods" as tools in SyRI's algorithms are based on a non-value-free system, and that it is time for an evaluation and review on that point? I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u175	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I now give the floor to Mr Otten for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u176	Mr. Chairman. The moment I decided to become politically active, I remember very well. That was in 2014, when the disastrous and completely predictable effects of the Kunduz agreement, combined with a government agreement of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, created by a quartet game led by informant Wouter Bos, began to be felt in society. How is it possible, I wondered, that at exactly the wrong time in the biggest financial crisis since World War II, politics is making exactly the wrong choices? The crisis was barely over yet, but politics decided to increase the burden on the middle class and to cut the disposable income in order to reduce the budget deficit as a madman. "Whatever it takes" seemed to be the motto of Prime Minister Rutte and Eurogroup president Dijsselbloem in those days. That this policy had enormous consequences for the daily lives of millions of Dutch people, was increased. Anything to make a living in Brussels. How is it possible, I thought, that our representatives in The Hague do not see what they are doing in society. The economy, partly due to the predictable psychological effects of these ill-thought-out measures, almost completely fell silent for a number of years and a second dip was a fact, as a result of this collective political mismanagement. This can no longer be done, something must be done about it, I think, and we urgently need new people in The Hague, with common sense, realism and decisiveness. And as we have seen, it turned out that many voters feel the same way. In the meantime, I'm getting a déjà vu. In fact, the Rutte cabinet is currently showing that it is once again creating major problems for our economy, our farmers, our builders and our people in education, in short, for almost everyone. I am referring, of course, to the problems with nitrogen and pfas. Dutch politics has designated 167 Natura 2000 sites. In addition to a number of larger, robust areas, these are especially many stamp areas, scattered all over the Netherlands, where sometimes landscapes are created that we do not naturally have in the Netherlands. And now we're stuck with the fried pears. A completely unrealistic and irrational policy, which cannot be combined with the activities of more than 17 million inhabitants of the Netherlands. And this number is still growing faster, because immigration policy is not being tackled vigorously. The consequences of this policy are disastrous, as was the case with Rutte II at the time. People lose their jobs quite unnecessarily, farmers get in the trouble unnecessarily and they are made impossible to work. Businesses will go bankrupt unnecessarily if we do not act quickly now. From the ritual mating dance performed by Mr Rosemüller and Mr Rutte this morning, we can conclude that GroenLinks and the VVD have finally fallen into each other's arms. Earlier this year, in the election campaign, I said that a vote on the VVD is a vote on GroenLinks. Only then I couldn't imagine how prophetic these words would be. In seven provinces the VVD rules together with GroenLinks and forms the climate coalitions. Yesterday I read in the Volkskrant a good reconstruction of the PAS problem, entitled: "The time bomb under the nitrogen file has been ticking for two years, but the Ministry didn't want to hear it." I quote from the Volkskrant: "One problem was that no one was really in charge of the PAS. The Ministry of Agriculture was formally'system responsible', but the fourteen other clients had their own powers. The provinces had to shape the restoration of nature, although no one could check whether they did. (...).' He was an administrative freak," says a person concerned." No wonder the Malieveld is filled with angry Dutch nowadays. The Malieveld as the new polder. My question to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture is therefore: what concrete measures are they going to take to deal with this administrative monstrosity quickly and decisively? The process of internal weakening that we are now experiencing must stop. It is high time to take the lead now and tackle the problem at the source. So back to the drawing board to rationalise the number of Natura 2000 sites and bring them back to a few dozen robust areas, so that farmers and construction get air back. If this requires the EU's cooperation, the Prime Minister will have to deal with it quickly in Brussels. The Netherlands pays billions annually to the EU and the Dutch contribution only goes up by more than 60%, according to reports. And the Netherlands already pays the most per capita to the EU. So we need to get something in return for that. So much for the PAS problem. However, there are many more things that need to be addressed quickly and decisively. What else needs to be done? And most importantly, how? It is now time for budgetary policy, now that monetary policy has been developed by the ECB's low interest rate policy. DNB President Knot also recently stated clearly in the House of Representatives that there is now room for burden relief and that the public debt is now almost too low to become too low, because it has already been brought down very far autonomously. He is therefore almost concerned that the level of public debt is falling too low. So we need to broaden budgetary policy now so that the burden relief can take place for citizens and businesses in the Netherlands, especially SMEs. We finance this by long-term borrowing on the capital market in order to bridge it, now that interest rates are zero to negative. The ECB's policy currently almost even gives money to the Netherlands, because of the negative interest rates. So what are we gonna do? First of all, the disposable income of the working and retired Dutch people must rise rapidly and drastically. These groups were presented by the Rutte cabinet with the account of the crisis. While the tax burden on large companies under the Rutte cabinet fell from 23% to 17%, the collective burden pressure increased from almost 35% to almost 40%. This increase in the burden burden has also reached workers and pensioners very asymmetrically. This must now be repaired quickly and effectively. Secondly, we want to reduce the burden on SMEs and the zzp'ers there are almost one millionzzp'ers in the Netherlands. We want to do this by maintaining the self-employed deduction, which is now being reduced by the Rutte cabinet. That costs about 2.5 billion. We want to finance this by deleting the plans of the investment fund Invest-NL by Wouter Bos, who wants to invest with tax money in the bras of Marlies Dekkers et cetera. What more do we want? We want less regulation and less bureaucracy, starting with the extension of the Law on pay-as-you-go obligation in the event of illness, which means that SMEs, especially the smaller SMEs, are no longer able to hire staff at all at the moment, and tackling the bureaucratic burden of the Improvement Act, which, in practice, appears to be mainly a bureaucratic deterioration. Again an example of study solutions that in practice are completely disastrous. We also want a well-functioning innovation environment for our society and economy. Look, for example, at the agricultural sector. The Dutch agricultural sector has a well-functioning innovation system and continues to innovate and improve, with the result that the Dutch farmer is one of the most productive in the world, with relatively the smallest environmental impact in the world, as was recently observed in a study by ABN AMRO. We, as political leaders, will have to promote together that our democracy can only move forward if we are also aware of economically responsible policies. In short, we must not go blindly behind ideologically driven models and agendas, as is the case with the climate agenda. For this, a huge sense of urgency is created. Imagine that in a few years' time it'll turn out that it's all gonna be okay with the climate changes, then you'd better get it over with quickly. This should be done in a much more well-considered way, with costs and benefits somewhat balanced. The Group Otten wants to give the middle class and SMEs, the engine of our economy, more space and more perspective, without constantly being affected by the government. In short, these hardworking people must be able to buy a house. So we need to be able to rebuild. People should not have to worry about capacity problems in education, good care for their parents or for themselves. We want to enter into cooperation with all those parties that are now taking a realistic stand. The process of internal weakening must make way for an innovative and decisive course that benefits all Dutch residents. It's time for realism, ratio and direction. Go for it is my message to the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u177	Thank you, Mr. Otten. If you stand still, I will speak to you for this was your maiden speech. Congratulations on this maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied economics and Dutch law at the University of Groningen. These two studies brought you directly together in your professional career. After your studies you started working as a lawyer in company law at Loeff Claeys Verbeke. Then you worked as a banker at Rabobank and Lehman Brothers, the first in Hong Kong and Amsterdam, the second in London, in the field of media and telecommunications. Well before the whole world met Lehman Brothers, during the financial crisis of 2008, you had already started for yourself. Since 2003 you have been the director of Ms2 Capital BV; you advise on mergers and acquisitions and give financial advice to start-ups in particular, with the slogan "accesselerate your start-up." The Forum for Democracy could be called your own start-up. Together with Thierry Baudet, you founded the think tank in 2015 and the party on 1 September 2016. Giving substance to your company slogan, you made a flying start together. In the Lower House elections, six months after the party was founded: two seats. At Provincial State elections in March of this year, Forum for Democracy ended with the largest three parties in all provinces. That profit translated into twelve seats in this Chamber. There was a lot of fuss in the party in the spring, to call it euphemistic, and this summer you chose to continue in the First Chamber with your own group, the Otten Group. Colleagues Rookmaker We have already heard her today, and De Vries have now joined you. Again a start-up and, to stay in the jargon, last Saturday followed a scale-up. You announced that the new party Group Otten, in short GO, was established. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u179	About your way of political business, you said in an interview, I quote: "in a constructive way, factually and in substance; I am of the business line," end quote. That is what you have officially started today, in this Chamber. Once again, welcome. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I have a domestic announcement. The committee meetings scheduled to start at 4.30 p.m. will start 45 minutes later, i.e. at 5.15 p.m. The new meeting hours can be found on the meeting app in ten minutes. The continuation of the APB, with the Prime Minister's first reply, will start at 7.15 p.m. after dinner break. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u180	Mr President, I shall begin with a personal word. Next week Monday 4 November 2019 it is 75 years since three German soldiers decided not to blow up the mill in the Brabant Drunen. All the people from Drunen who were hiding in the mill were saved in such a way. The three soldiers refused to follow the order to blow up the mill on the evening of 4 November. In the safe mind, the mill sheltered 93 civilians. Among those 95 were my grandparents, my father and mother, my younger sister Joan of 1 year and I, 2 years and 3 months old. I still remember staying in the mill. My younger sister Mega is watching in the stands this afternoon. Ms Geke van de Merwe-Wouters wrote a book about it in 2015 under the title Drunen escapes mass murder. This is the book that Mrs Geke van de Merwe wrote four years ago about the murder that fortunately did not take place in Drunen. This is the list of 93 people who wrote it down at the time, if they survive. It was supposed to be kept in a safe in the mill, and that happened later. Here are all 95 names, handwritten. I mention it here and now because I also want to dwell on the city hall murder in Heusden. In the basement of the town hall, more than 150 people thought they had a safe hiding place there. A few hours after our rescue by three German soldiers, other German soldiers blew up the town hall in Heusden on the night of 4 November, killing or killing 134 innocent civilians. With the raid in Putten, this is the biggest civilian murder in the Netherlands. Nothing can more accurately reflect the difference between life and death, but also between good and evil. I will be at the commemoration in Drunen on Sunday 3 November and again on 4 November at the annual quiet trip in Heusden. Mr. Chairman. It is an honour and pleasure for me today, on behalf of my group, as chairman of the political group, to be able to cross the lines with the cabinet during these general political discussions. There is a particular reason for this policy. Never before has a cabinet been so positive about citizens' own policies and income development. In recent years there has been criticism of the cabinet that the economy has recovered, but that the people in the country hardly noticed anything about it. But see, according to the cabinet, with the reduction in charges, almost everyone will be making a significant contribution next year. Purchasing power improvements of 2% and more adorn the Millions Note. Even the opposition became silent. Rarely did a cabinet, at least according to the media, meet such a positive opposition. How beautiful political life can sometimes be, Prime Minister and colleagues in the cabinet. But the General Reviews in the House of Representatives were not over yet or the first cracks in all this beautiful became visible. The discontent in the country is great, and I do not mean just the farmers on the Malieveld. It is quite unique that the employers' protest against government policy in our country is so widely supported. Never shown, not even during the Den Uyl cabinet I was in: employers at the Malieveld. The country and the economy are threatened with too much regulation and the beautiful purchasing power plates disappear like snow for the sun. It would be interesting to hear how the cabinet feels about this. Is there still so much optimism or is it time to look more realistic at the coming year? Does the cabinet intend to come forward with revised estimates this autumn? If we are adapting, then we can look at pensions equally, for eight million workers and three million pensioners. It is quite bizarre that the cabinet in the Millions note predicts an increase in income for pensioners, while pension funds are now threatening daily reductions of many percentages in the newspaper. I haven't heard much about it from colleagues today, but it's been front-page news every day for weeks. This will enable the projected increase in purchasing power for about four million pensioners per round to go into the trash. After the massive loss of purchasing power of 20% in recent years due to no indexing, this group simply has a significant fall in purchasing power. Reductions affect the overall income development of four million people. At the end of next month Minister Koolmees comes with a redeeming word, we understood from recent consultation with the Dutch Parliament. Of course, that's far too late. You can't promise beautiful things in September and then take two months to see if you can keep your promises. The Prime Minister has promised more things in the past that he could not deliver, but this is going very far. It is time for clear answers and not just a few moments later all kinds of excuses. People want to know now, don't let them dangle in great uncertainty. In short, my group would like to hear from the cabinet how it is looking at the current situation. Does the cabinet keep thinking, does the uncertainty remain among millions of Dutch people? Does the government consider the economic consequences of substantial reductions in pensions? In view of all the problems that exist abroad, is it wise to confront our country with a plethora of regulation for business and a dazzling pension problem that is also caused by far too strict regulation? Isn't the cabinet actually in the process of creating its own recession? Our own nationwide prophet of strict regulations, President Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank, recently came to the House of Representatives to explain that substantial reductions in pensions are inevitable. The rack's out. In itself this was not a new message, because this is a story that De Nederlandsche Bank has been proclaiming for years, helped by the rigid accounting rules of the cabinet. Often this kind of message is accompanied by support comments from experts who are often connected to De Nederlandsche Bank in one way or another. All this is known and much of the same. What was not the same, however, was the letter of no less than 60 prominent scientists and industry who were recently sent to the House of Representatives. A letter in which the cabinet is called upon to think very carefully about its own accounting rules. I counted in that group prominents a small 30 professors, 2 former directors of the Central Planning Bureau, 2 former deputy directors of the Central Planning Bureau, yes even 2 former members of the Executive Board of De Nederlandsche Bank and many other acquaintances from business, yes, also politics, and science. According to a comment in De Telegraaf, it was actually the first time that a group that is not directly associated with one of the parties in the pension discussion openly spoke out against cabinet policy. Of course there was a reaction from a number of other professors, but that was less than twenty and often known from previous comments. Apparently, the support for adaptation in science and business is much greater than the cabinet thinks. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet how it views this group of 60 experts' proposal to set up a committee in the short term to see how we can adapt the current accounting rules in a sensible way, especially in the light of the planned changes in our pension system, and whether we should not follow the European Commission's line much more and give room for a system that does indeed take into account achieved returns, which are very good, as many countries around us are doing. Countries with good systems. I'd like an answer from the cabinet. Perhaps the cabinet will then be able to answer the question of how we should actually proceed if we do not do so. If, after a long thought, Minister Koolmees likes a letter at the end of November, in which the cabinet actually fully adheres to the current accounting rules for pension funds, as agreed in June, what are we going to do? Are we going to explain to the pensioners that, despite the record returns of 15% to 20% of pension funds this year, we are going to cut pensions significantly? Because Mr. Knot asks and says? Because according to the rules of the Cabinet, pension funds must pretend not to make any returns over the next 50 years? I recently read a communication expert's statement that our pension system is being sold extremely badly by the cabinet. And that for a pension system that Mercer's largest global consultancy has re-appointed to be the best pension system in the world. So there is a lot to explain in the coming period. Who's gonna do that? Is the cabinet hiding behind the pension funds again, who have to solve it themselves, or is the cabinet coming with a package leaflet, Rutte's package leaflet, in which everything is explained? In which the Prime Minister says that the promised increase in purchasing power is not going to happen for millions of pensioners? That, unfortunately, this is another promise he can't live up to? That he doesn't listen to a lot of experts? That he doesn't feel like rethinking their proposal? I'm very curious to hear the Prime Minister's answers. Then I'll get to the kids. That may surprise the Prime Minister after the debate on the other side with Mr Krol, but he can learn. If the Prime Minister then responds, he may be able to comment on reports in the media about dramatic reductions in the build-up of pension entitlements for younger participants. The letter of the 60 prominent people also points out this very clearly. Because if we remember that new word well, Prime Minister, if we take account of the same accounting rules as for the commitments that are to be made now, then that premium for young people and workers will have to be very much increased. My group is therefore very concerned about the retirement of young people. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. The PensionPro trade journal has approached numerous pension funds about this. In their response, the funds surveyed indicate that young people's development needs to be significantly reduced. We are even literally talking about dramatic reductions in the construction of new pensions. Pension-building for young people is expected to reach a maximum of 50% of the average wage. Philips' pension fund even calculates this very precisely. Young people will soon receive pensions which may only be 30% of the final wage. Is the government going to explain this in a package leaflet in the hope that young people will continue to participate? In all honesty, I think the odds are very low. I do not expect young people to participate in a system that offers such low outcomes. I am curious to hear the reply of our always optimistic Prime Minister on these building problems for the younger pension participants. But I think we need a lot of optimism to sell to the young people a system that assumes 0% return over the next 50 years. Mr. Chairman. What to do? It seems particularly unwise for my group to make substantial reductions in pensions at the beginning of next year, if we are still in the middle of the pension debate. The opinion of my group would be that the cabinet should, in view of the forthcoming pension proposals, at least make way for the coming year. Not only for a few obvious large funds, think of ABP and Care and Wellness as well as for all pension funds that are currently affected by these particular circumstances. The two metal pension funds, with two million participants at the top, will be hit on 31 December, if the interest rate goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u181	Mr Van Rooijen, you are currently consuming all your speaking time for 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u182	Yeah, that was a personal word, too. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u183	Perhaps it is good to conclude, otherwise you will have no speaking time next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u184	Yeah, I've got 20, 10 seconds left. I was wondering what to do. So don't cut short for all the funds, including the metal funds, so that participants, young and old, can share in the increased prosperity in our country. Finally. Mr Rutte has often said that he wants to be Prime Minister for all Dutch. Well, for a prime minister for all Dutch people there is a fine task here: to lift the threatening discounts over the next year, to honour the purchasing power promises from the Millions note and to give our economy a little support and to clearly indicate where the cabinet is going now. My group believes that the cabinet will have to communicate this very clearly to the many citizens affected by this. Moreover, I look forward to the exchange of views with the Prime Minister this evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u186	Mr. Chairman. I see my time has been running for a few minutes. Let me begin by congratulating those who made a maiden speech and my respect for Mr Van Rooijen's personal speech. Mr. Chairman. What a blow this summer of the Catharijneconvent in Utrecht, with that special exhibition under the intriguing title "Bij ons in de biblebelt." The museum's website had an exciting text: "Who are the people of the bible, what are their dilemmas and where do their views come from? Come to the exhibition "Bij ons in de biblebelt" and discover the part of the Netherlands where the ideas of the sixties have not got much hold of. Never before have you come so close to the experience of this orthodox-Christian group." Well, Mr. Chairman, that sounded like something to me. So I also went to see what I actually look like. And sure enough, nice answers were given. Like the question of where their views come from. Very common, from the Bible. Let me mention a text, as a kind of motto for my contribution to these General Political Reviews, from Psalm 34. It says, "Distance from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it." Such a text is alive and well, even today! Just like those people from the bible. You can't catch a community like that in a museum. Nevertheless, it seems that the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior want the SGP in the museum, with a law that would change the election of the First Chamber so much that it is very likely. Can the Prime Minister take away this concern? After all, the State Committee advises in its report, which has not even been discussed in the two Chambers, not to change the election of the Upper Chamber. Why does the cabinet do exactly what the state committee advises? Mr. Chairman. I like to leave that museum behind me and move on to everyday reality, by naming and testing some themes for legality, feasibility and enforcement, coupled with the motto of deviating from evil, doing good, seeking peace and even chasing it. First, the legality. Of course, that's mostly about people and their rights. This is so important that soon the Week of Life will be organized again, with an explanation in a flyer delivered in every home in the Netherlands, and the Mars for Life, this time in the heart of Utrecht. As regards legality, I would like to begin by congratulating the Cabinet on the recently adopted Basic Registration Persons Act relating to the recording of data on children who died at the time of birth or the declaration. That was a nice example of "doing the right thing." More than 10,000 children are now registered, among others a child who was aborted, from Yara, a young woman who told her story to Tijs van de Brink, in the EO programme Nieuwlicht. She regretted the abortion, and she wanted recognition of her child's life. Touching. I thank the government, because this law recognises that abortion is not about removing a lump of cells, but about living, about a child, about a human being. This recognition leads to the following question. Can Minister Blok, or Minister Kaag, who recently fought for sexual rights and health care for women at the United Nations, now stand up for the rights of unborn people? Think of abortion practice up to nine months in Canada, but also countries like China and India, where gendercide abortion is committed because it concerns girls. Can the Prime Minister promise that this will be discussed internationally? Another question. The Prime Minister reported last year that Minister De Jonge of VWS is in the process of preventing repeated abortions. After all, the figures showed that a third of the 30,000 abortions per year are repeats. So mothers who have a child removed for a second, third or fourth time. The Prime Minister has said that this will gradually become apparent in the figures. My question is: are there any figures available to show whether this policy is having any effect? The end of life also demands attention. We see a sliding scale: first euthanasia for those who suffer unbearably, then for those who become dementia, then when you are done with life. The next step seems that euthanasia should be possible in children up to 12 years of age. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the cabinet wishes to "neighbourhoods of evil', also taking into account what is laid down in the coalition agreement? On the second point about the Senate, its feasibility, I would like to address a topic that affects us all, namely the climate. The SGP is also in favour of measures to reduce, where possible, the negative impact on our climate. Here, too, the task of "doing good." But that must be effective, feasible and affordable. The question is, is that going to happen? Recently eight initiators came here to defend the Climate Act. A Climate Act, at the heart of which is the State Monstrum of a percentage of the law that even the proposers admitted is not legally enforceable. How can we prevent the successive Cabinets from being held hostage by legislation with impossible percentages? And that without any financial coverage, while it's about a billion-dollar stake. What is the Prime Minister's opinion on the fact that an uncovered cheque has entered the law? How is that possible, when a clear subject such as the gap between one and two earners is not resolved? In the meantime, our country is closing by the legal procedures. The production of nitrogen literally and figuratively runs out of the PAS, with the result that construction stops, that thousands of jobs are at stake, that farmers are threatened in their survival, while they produce more sustainably than their colleagues abroad. We would prefer the farmers to 'hunt for peace' rather than to be forced to take action. And tomorrow, the next group will come and get her right away. How do we get out of this legal grip, I ask the Prime Minister. Executableness and enforcement are more or less intertwined. And we're not making it easy on ourselves. Where should I start? Should I start with emancipation policy? A law has recently been passed which stipulates that the distinction between men and women must no longer be made. No distinction in terms of gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. In the meantime, women in the top are being wagered. You can't do that anymore, can you? Or should I talk about the misguided return policy with regard to troublesome asylum seekers? Or what about the schools that are busy jumping for staff, or the care sector where the hands are missing from the bed? All important issues, but let me focus on the question of enforcement on security, i.e. the pursuit of peace. Think about the police and all kinds of emergency services. How can they maintain if there is a huge shortage of human resources? What is the government going to do about police stations that are under-humanized and where the water is on the lips? Security and the pursuit of peace are, of course, also matters of defence. Important steps have been taken, and congratulations for that. The question remains, however, how do we ensure that defence is kept to its NATO commitments, without the financial resources needed to do so? Why are we waiting for the NATO standard of 2% of our gross national product until 2024, when there is a lot of money left? Why not speed up our security? And what exactly is the purpose of 2024? Is it okay then, or is the timetable just starting? Actually, there are questions to be asked. Perhaps it is possible to set up a committee to answer all these questions. Last year I found that a committee was set up for every difficult issue. I asked for an overview, and the Prime Minister undertook to include it in the 2020 budget. In September, we received it, not through the Millions Note, so as not to unduly burden the budget items. So we have a good overview. Indeed, this is where the whole thing hangs: 196 committees are involved. My question is: has the administration of our country been transferred to committees, or is the government taking back control and is legislation coming to both Chambers of the States General? Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to stress that this cabinet is doing a lot of good things. And where the cabinet sometimes comes up with things that are not right, we as a Chamber can point not only to the government, but also to ourselves. That is why I call on both my colleagues in the First Chamber and the entire Cabinet to join forces and to take up the motto, presented from the Bible: Depart from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it. I mean, of course, peace with God, but also with each other. That is the peace I wish the Netherlands! Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u187	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Gerbrandy for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u188	Mr. Chairman. As one-man OSF, the Independent Senate Group, I would like to raise five points. It's a great pleasure to see the cabinet sitting there and meeting like this. My evenknee in the Lower House is rather quiet and the input of the independents may not sound every day, but now you have to pay attention. The one-man group: just not lonely. 33% of the Dutch vote for an independent political party. 3,200 council members in the municipal councils bring our democracy there in reality. Not a small number. In my fearful dreams I see before me that they are all going to vote for the OSF and that we are going to be the largest group here. Okay, it's still the future. Let's get down to In this context, I believe that the inequality in the subsidy of political parties should now be resolved as soon as possible. The Veling Commission and also the Remkes Commission and the VNG have said several times: go solve that now for the 33% that shape this democracy. The cabinet says that we are going to postpone it for another four years. I say it must be done now, before the next municipal elections. Those Political Parties Financing Act may be regulated by a provisional arrangement. Two: Election First Chamber. Remkes says don't go back to 1983. The cabinet has responded and says: we should actually do that. I'm telling you, don't do it. It's very detrimental to small parties like mine. The electoral threshold is actually doubled. Do we have an alternative? Yes, that's spreading the provincial elections over several years, so that they can no longer be hijacked by national politics, Mr. Rutte. Very serious. It's supposed to be about the county in provincial elections. A second point: financial problems in municipalities. Dear President and Cabinet, the water is on the lips of the congregations. I should know, I've worked in that for 20 years. It cannot be that the country's budget, the state budget, has a surplus and that the municipalities are almost pushed over the edge in a curate situation Article 12. In the case of decentralisation at the time Minister Bos has openly acknowledged that it was not only better to implement it by the first government, but it was also an important cut for the cabinet: minus 20%. Then they've handled it differently in Denmark. That transition costs money: there's money first and then it comes back. The cabinet has to deal with this. We still have to look at the system of stair-to-strap-off. Perhaps we should look into the tax area of municipalities. Can I have an answer later, a vision from you, Minister? Three: the Netherlands is doing well financially and economically, but are we in balance? The middle incomes are up 2.5%, fine, but the minimum is only half of it. And that, in our view, is irresistible. If you read the civilization of a country by the way it deals with the minima and the vulnerable, this government is on the wrong path. The public sector should also be given the opportunity to continue to function properly, in particular education, our knowledge-based economy, our future, our youth. People need to be motivated again to do their job in education. I think that the cabinet should do more to the care, it has been said: we are all getting older, and the police. The pensioners, it's just been explained very well, over 3 million, 4 million people who thought they were getting a little better. That interest rate, that "poor" rate, is a bad system. I didn't think of that. Listen to the 60 experts who have said something about this. Point 4: The Netherlands is a prosperous country. In Friesland we say: it bêste lân fan d'ierde. Then we talk mainly about Friesland, but the Netherlands is it bêste lân fan d'ierde. How did that happen? We were a seafaring nation. It has been mentioned before: the VOC, the Golden Age. At least we have a lot to thank for it. Two: the minerals we found here. Steenkolen in Limburg, gas in Groningen. And I'd like to talk to you about that. So we owe money to areas in this country that have brought about our prosperity. Therefore, problems such as shrinkage in the periphery of the Netherlands will have to be tackled vigorously. That's why repairing damage really needs to be picked up. Mr. Wiebes said we're gonna say goodbye to that gas now. We support that. That's powerful. And now he has to show what he's saying! The infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, one example is the Lely line. If you build the Betuwe line of gas money, it's your turn now. It's just one example, because I only have ten minutes, and there's four of them left. It's two things our country owes its prosperity. The third is agriculture. The Minister is in our midst, and I am pleased to see that. Agriculture is the world's leading figure. My father was a farmer and my grandfather was a farmer. We've been farmers since we were created, so to speak. This country is built by the farmers, the farmers. And now there are big problems. Every farmer knows, pay attention, every farmer knows that it cannot go on like this. The intensive farmer also knows that. That is why the helm has to change, and that is why I ask the cabinet and the minister to find a solution with the farmers in the short term. Not next week, you can't. If the problems of the PAS have been going on for five years, you can't solve it in five weeks. The farmers are going to help you, and then there is also a need to speak clearly in order to solve this problem. We support your circular agriculture, but it has to be with the people. If it doesn't work in the Netherlands, with his knowledge and resources, to find a new way, there's nowhere to go. I would like to instruct you, Mr President, but that has been said for a long time: go again to conquer the leading position of the Netherlands in agriculture. If that were to work in a sustainable way, we would once again be leading the world. The problems we now know here are global and we can solve them with our knowledge and resources. I wish you good luck with that. The final point, Mr President. The landlord's tax. I would also have liked to talk about basic income, about the United Nations and about NATO, but I still have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u189	And that includes your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u190	Oh, yeah. In 2013, the Rutte II cabinet seized the housing corporations. Obviously there was reason to do so, but that was a temporary measure. Ask Minister Kok what happened to that temporaryity. Three months' rent of people with the lowest incomes renting corporation homes goes to the Empire. Ladies and gentlemen, things have to change now. That temporaryity is coming off. I call on you to do so, and I have a motion ready to order the landlord's tax to be eliminated, so that the corporations can build good, sustainable and affordable homes again for the people they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u191	Now I'm actually late, because I thought as a nestor of this Chamber, I'd have to give our new colleague a hand. I wanted to use a trick by asking you to explain again what you want. Because that will not go away from your speaking time, but you will have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u192	That's why I spoke through. I saw it in you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u193	You explained it so quickly, I'm afraid I can't make that gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u195	This will help the housing corporations in the cabinet to overcome this housing shortage and to remove this pressure from the housing market. This also allows corporations to help your climate goals in the real estate sector, because these houses need to be built energy-neutrally. I say it a little unfriendly but clear, cabinet: that 1 billion in ten years I actually find a bit of a embarrassing cigar out of my own box. I've got the motion right here. It's the first time I've been here. I don't know exactly how it's going, but I'll run it by you. I'll put it right here. I conclude by saying: is the Netherlands in balance? Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a serious housing emergency has arisen in the Netherlands, partly because housing corporations have been subject to a landlord's tax since 2013; this landlord's tax was imposed at the time to alleviate the budget deficit;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that the situation is now completely different;]] [[that there is therefore no longer any reason to maintain this landlord's tax;]] [[that housing corporations can make a substantial contribution to building more good, sustainable and affordable houses for, in particular, those with lower incomes;]] [[the need for housing corporations to be able to resolve the government's housing shortage and climate objectives at the rate of EUR 1.7 billion a year;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the landlord's tax by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u196	Sorry. I'm going to read your motion first. This is how it goes, and then you can close up. I'm gonna cut your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u197	I'm gonna lock up. Is the Netherlands in balance? It could be better, but I think you should be able to do it if you want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u198	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Please stand still. Because I'm going to talk to you for a moment, because it was your maiden speech. Congratulations on that maiden speech, as the last group leader of today. Allow me to outline some of your background. You were trained as a teacher in biology, physics and chemistry. In that capacity, you stood in front of the classrooms in Rozenburg, Winterswijk, Drachten and Waskemeer. Geographically, only the South of the Netherlands is missing in that list. In 1998 you made the switch from the classroom to the town hall when you became alderman of the municipality of Wymbritseradiel on behalf of the Fryske Nasjonale Party. I've been practicing on it for a long time. When Wymbritseradiel became part of the new merged municipality of Súdwest-Fryslân in 2011, you became chairman of the municipal council of the FNP group. After two years as a council member for the FNP, you became the first mayor of FNP house in 2013, namely of the municipality of Achtkarspelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u199	The second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u200	Um... the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u201	I'll see if it's true, but it was the second one. Meanwhile, you are President-Commissioner of N.V. Fryslân Miljeu, President-Commissioner of Cooperative De Fryske Mienskip on Glass and Chairman of Freonen fan Fossylfrij Fryslân. For a non-Friesian decent tonguebreakers, by the way. As it befits a Frisian, bounces, skates and sails you like. In that last sport you can find regularly on stage. With your ship, the Sietse, you became champions in 2009.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u202	World champion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u203	World champion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u204	World Champion in Fryslân. And my peers immediately wonder if there would be a Heelke. Since June 11, you have been a member of the First Chamber on behalf of the Independent Senate Group. Since 1999, the OSF has continuously represented the regional noise in this Chamber. With your membership, that sound can continue. When you left the city council of Súdwest-Fryslân to become mayor of Achtkarspelen, you said: "Trust in the power of the citizen and remain reliable as a government." It's a motto you're taking to the First Chamber. Once again, welcome. Or better yet, wool bowl! Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Before suspending, I would like to inform you that this is the time for congratulations to all Members who have made their maiden speech today. That's what we've been waiting for all day. I would ask Mr Cliteur, Mr Rosenmöller, Mrs Vos, Mr Otten and Mr Gerbrandy to stand up for the rostrum, so that all the other Members can congratulate you, but only after I have done so first. Mr. Cliteur, stand up. I'm suspending the meeting and this break includes dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u205	The next item is the continuation of the General Political Reviews. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, of course, first of all, congratulations to all maiden speakers. A lot of questions have been asked. I would like to speak briefly, as I order my papers, and then, as soon as possible, I would like to reply to the questions and then do so on the basis of themes. I hope you recognize your question here and there. First of all, Mr President, your predecessor spoke at her farewell in June, at that time also on behalf of 43 other members of this Chamber, true words about the fact that the coalition has lost its majority in this house after the last First Parliament elections. She felt that this was not a problem, because it forced the cabinet to think through legislative proposals even more thoroughly and to motivate them as effectively as possible. Then we also thought: then we immediately catch her up to the cabinet, then she can prove it herself. She doesn't hear it, but er... Mrs Broekers, it was about you, but you can read it in the Acts!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u207	I'm working, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u208	Very good; you're working. Me too! Hahaha.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u209	Mr. Chairman. If one thing has become clear in these General Reviews, it is precisely that the content and strength of the argument still prevail here. That started with the contribution of the first speaker, Mr Cliteur, and that has continued. We will have to do our best in this respect. My conclusion after the first term of the Chamber is also that, if we want to get something done here, we need to motivate it well and that is not a race that has run in advance. The eulogy, by the way, was very positive, was said here and there, and "the Netherlands is doing so well." Yes, that is true on many points, but that speech also contained a profit warning, namely: where we stand well, we must also be alert. This applies to economic growth, which we are currently seeing flattened under the influence of international developments. But that also applies to public services and even to our pension system. We shall, of course, be discussing this again this evening. Another profit warning, which was also very clearly present in the speech of the throne, was about the fact that during the journey all kinds of problems can arise, with which you have to deal politically and where you have to remove bottlenecks. That's where we're in the middle of it, too. Nitrogen and pfas are of course the most visible subjects. I shall come back to that again on the basis of the various questions. Perhaps I could say to Mrs Vos that what she said about racism and discrimination has been taken from my heart and that I agree with her that we, as politicians, have the task of standards. That can happen in a debate if something is said about a woman in that debate, but that certainly also applies when it comes to this issue. What always annoys me is that I understand that, when large groups of people have come from outside the Netherlands to the Netherlands, that requires a country as a whole to deal with it. But if you don't give someone an internship because her name is Fatima, or you don't hire someone because his name is Muhammad, or you reject people's skin color, that's so fucking stupid. Apart from the fact that it's stupid, you're also doing yourself very short, because it doesn't lead to the good mix of people, man-woman, white-black, gay-hetero, which ultimately leads to better decisions. If you don't think so, you'll be stuck with all the clubs of white Dutch men from the early 40s and we now know where that takes us. For that reason it's unbelievable... Well, Mrs Van Engelshoven is sitting here and Mr Grapperhaus is older, but I would like to say this in my reply. But I take up the point that there is also a normative role for politics. The first issue I would like to address is economics and taxation. Furthermore, I come to purchasing power and burden development as a second block. The third is labour market, social security. Four, environment, climate. Five, safety. Six, international and defense. Seven, domestic government. Eight, take care. And nine, education. But I'll always tell you exactly what theme we're in. The first theme is therefore economics and taxation. There were quite a few questions about that. That also makes sense, because that subject belongs to the General Reviews. One of the first questions that has come back several times is: is there still cause for optimism? Isn't there a risk that expectations will have to be adjusted? I heard Mr Van Rooijen but also others about this. Very briefly, we must base ourselves on the estimates as they are. We know him. That is that the economy is growing by 1.8% this year and by 1.5% next year. We'll have to see if it stays that way. By the way, we are one of the fastest growing economies in this part of Europe, but this is also part of a country that is highly export driven and often comes out of the crisis a little slower and therefore continues to grow a little longer. So that in itself is not a very special one. What you do see is that the Dutch economy has been significantly diversified in recent years. For example, our dependence on the German economy, which was still very large ten years ago, has decreased and we have more of our own independent economic space. It is still strongly linked to Germany because of its exports and all other contacts, but economically speaking we are somewhat less dependent. When Germany sneezes, not all of the Netherlands has a cold. That's gotten less. Of course, we rely on the estimates of the Central Planning Bureau. That's all we've got. They're good. They can do that well, but, as has already been said in my introductory word and in the Throne speech, there are economic risks. I mentioned a few and add the Brexit to that. Then there was a question about the ESC opinion entitled Diversity in the summit. All advice from the ESC weighs heavily, but of course we are also looking for support for these measures. We are considering it right now. Before Christmas, we come up with a cabinet position. So I can't anticipate that right now, because then I'm going to tell you what I think. But then maybe I'll have another fight with flanks in this coalition. With four parties, I've learned, it's wise to say something when we agree. Then there was the question from the angle of D66 and CDA: how do you look at the long-term absence of interest? What does it actually mean for a society if you have low interest rates for that long or actually no interest? This is, of course, an important question, because this development has an impact on many policy areas. Wopke Hoekstra and Menno Snel, the rulers, have given a reflection on this Millions note. During the General Financial Reviews in the House of Representatives, we have also been promised to see if we can't explore that subject a little more broadly and in depth, so that's what we're going to do. The Minister will then come with a letter. I'll make sure he goes to the First Chamber, too. Perhaps it is also an opportunity to discuss it separately. But that letter's gonna be here anyway. I'll be right back with the effects on pensions. Specifically about low interest rates, Minister Koolmees van Sociale Zaken, at the request of the Dutch Parliament, has promised to have independent research conducted into long-term low or even negative interest rates on pension savings. He will also be asking the Central Planning Bureau to look into this issue in the near future. That will come back to Parliament in the near future, at least, if you wish, here as well. Then, of course, the question of our economy and our multinationals in particular, on which comments have been made. Mr Rosenmöller drew attention to the increase in wages. I also heard Mr Kox on this. I said this very simply. I think that if a very large company in the Netherlands gives the top man 10% or more raise, the staff should get half. Then I've kept it mild, because then we'll limit it to 5%. If the top man gets more than 10%, the staff will still get 5%. That would be my norm. Because I don't understand what those top men do with all that money. It's not even their own company. I don't understand why there should be such crazy high wage increases at the top of these big companies. At the moment we see that the contract wage increase in the Netherlands is slightly below 3%. That's not bad at all, because that's the highest level in ten years. But my comment was about the very large companies. I think they should actually raise between 4% and 5%, given the huge wage increases at the top. I would like to say that these very large companies are extremely important for the Netherlands. They make sure that the fair in Amsterdam is strong again. And because there is a strong stock exchange in Amsterdam, Amsterdam and its surroundings are again the places where other companies want to settle, possibly also to try to manifest themselves in the Netherlands via that stock exchange, at least if they are public limited companies. The fact that we have very large companies like Unilever, Shell, Philips and others in the Netherlands has huge spin-offs. They have brought much to our country and will bring much to our country in the future. They are important, for example for our innovation investments. 40% of all innovation in the Netherlands comes from Philips and former Philips companies such as ASML and NXP. Those are huge percentages. So let us never underestimate how incredibly important these companies are. But that's no reason to be a top man grabbing that you're getting more than 10% raise. By the way, I think 10% is a big deal. Well, that was my comment. I have tried to look for the debate on this, including through Pauw and other programmes, but it has not been possible. I'm going through with it, but that doesn't mean I don't care about those companies. They are of vital importance to the Netherlands. Furthermore, although I do not have to explain this here, we are naturally working to reduce income tax across a very broad front, to bring forward tax relief and to try to make a contribution as a government. Again, overall wage growth is considerable. It's really at the highest level in years. Then there's the investment fund. Later this year, we want to come up with a letter. Mr Wiebes, the Minister for Economic Affairs, will then lead the way in terms of the earning capacity of the Netherlands, i.e. where will the great opportunities lie in the future to further strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands. In addition, such a fund is being worked on. Wiebes and Hoekstra, therefore the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance, will come forward with further information at the beginning of next year. I can start philosophizing about that now, but I'd rather not do that until there's a cabinet position on it, in line with what I said earlier. We have said something about the type of investment we are talking about. That's also in the Millions Note. You talk about investments with added value compared to private investments. These are not primarily aimed at achieving the best possible financial return. Furthermore, the fund should clearly distinguish itself from existing public funds and funds, such as Invest-NL. These are therefore non-regular and non-structural investments with social added value. Then you can think about knowledge development, innovation and infrastructure. Those are the picket posts we hit. In it, the exceptional earning opportunities for the Netherlands must be developed. At the beginning of next year, financial design will also be further developed. So that's what we'll get back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u210	The Prime Minister has spoken on several occasions about the investment fund, including in the Lower House. My question is: is there a relationship between the investment fund and Invest-NL? If so, what is the relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u211	No, I don't think so. We do not want it to be in that water. When I say "investment fund," that's a working title. In fact, we want to ensure that we get a picture of the exceptional growth potential and then what that means in the financial sense, of course against the background of low interest rates. So exactly how we're going to shape that is still completely open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u212	Is it possible that the investment fund will be a subsidiary of Invest-NL? Or is there going to be something completely new and let the two investment funds compete with each other? That's a little weird, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u213	No, as I said, Invest-NL has a very specific function. I heard Mrs Faber and I also thought someone else said that we might as well lift it and use it for something else. That seems to me to be very unwise, because it has a very specific role to play. What we are discussing here is not the role of Invest-NL. Here we are talking very specifically about where there are exceptional opportunities for growth, indeed in a few areas that I have already mentioned, i.e. innovation, infrastructure and knowledge development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u214	Mrs Faber, the last on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u215	It's just a little bit about the structure. My question is again: is there a relationship between Invest-NL in the form of a subsidiary or is Invest-NL the investment fund? Is it gonna hang underneath? Is that relationship there, yes or no? Or is it really completely unconnected and is it not covered by the European InvestEU programme? Invest-NL will come under InvestEU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u216	I have said it literally a few times, but I would certainly like to repeat it once again: the fund must be of added value compared to existing public funds and funds, including Invest-NL. I would add 'and in relation to the use of general resources'. That means it's really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u217	I hear a lot of complicated detours and ifs and buts to make it not look like what we already have. I asked the government to consider the existing infrastructure in the shortest route of investing in the future. Of course, we have already invested in this with innovation platforms, the FES and future funds. That's one. The second is that I also make it clear from the Prime Minister's speech that it is still a while before the fund arrives, if any, in view of the fact that it is already there. Is the government also prepared to finance research with the occasional money that, for example, comes out of the Autumn Note this year? I'm sure investigators are very happy with the money that's left over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u218	Well, the Cabinet spends billions on investment in infrastructure, education and research. Here you are talking about whether there is a reasoning to develop on the basis of which you get extra money from the capital market, also against the background of low interest rates and the belief that you can then finance projects in the areas I mentioned. These can lead to an additional increase in our earning capacity and our ability to generate jobs, to generate future growth and prosperity. This is again important for maintaining our very high level of spending on social security and health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u219	I very much agree with that objective, but still the question is whether you need a separate fund. It remains to be seen whether it will be possible to invest in it as of tomorrow. We all know that there's gonna be a lot coming out of the Navy's note soon. We also know that at NWO a lot of applications are not being honored and that people in the first money stream would love to do some fundamental research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u220	I would also like to maintain the atmosphere between Mrs Vos and Mr Rosenmöller. As is well known, we have said at the General Reviews in the Lower House that we will take a priority look for the Autumn Note to see if it is possible to free up one-off money for matters such as undermining and education. That's how I put it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u221	Mrs. Fox, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u222	I understand that, but then my question remains as to whether, in next year's inquiry into the premises of that fund, you would also like to consider whether we can simply do so through the regular channels. I very much agree with the aim of establishing that fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u223	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I cannot promise here that we will, as a matter of priority, make additional funds available for the first research flow. Indeed, we have agreed with the other side of this Binnenhof to look very specifically at undermining and education because of the issues that are currently going on there. I would add that the issue of nitrogen has now become even more important as a subject. This also requires some investment here and there, possibly outside the existing resources. Fortunately, funds have already been earmarked for this purpose in the budget. So I can't promise yet. We are going to talk about the earning capacity and the design of the fund. "Funds" is a working title. That does not mean that it is necessarily a classic fund as we all see fit. The most classic fund is a fund where you put money in and where you get interest with which you will pay investments. Then, with the current interest rate, you have to put a lot of money in it before you can invest something. We have already said that it seems to be a less appropriate form. The question is how, because of the low interest rates, you can withdraw that money as well as possible from the market to make investments in the Dutch economy. Then, of course, you will always come to areas where I fully agree with Mrs Vos, as knowledge and education, but also infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u224	I would also like to talk a little more about the fund for the future. As far as we're concerned, that's the name. The Prime Minister says there will be a letter at the beginning of next year. I hope, however, that there will be clarity about the fund within this period of office. In fact, I hope that the debate on governance will not last as long as on who can name it. Can we make an agreement on this, for example, that next year we have really discussed the first proposals in concrete terms at this DPE, so that we are just really going to get to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u225	That would be my great preference. I cannot make a firm commitment to this, because there must be proposals that fall under what we all think you should spend that money on. I can think of a few, and so can Mrs. Bredenoord, I think. Let us do everything we can, Mrs Bredenoord too, to ensure that we have that clarity at the beginning of next year. Then we have a year before the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u226	I can certainly think of anything, even more so, I said, of course, in my contribution: make sure that a significant part of it does indeed go to science. You use terms like "knowledge development" and "innovation," but that term is not mentioned. Is there a reason or do you use different terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u227	No, I'm not. In the Millions note we mention knowledge development, innovation and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u228	Not science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u229	Innovation is science, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u230	No, that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u231	Oh, well, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u232	No, but the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u233	Knowledge development. Knowledge development is also science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u234	Mrs Bredenoord, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u235	This is a matter of principle. Look, innovation is also important, but that goes through Economic Affairs, and that serves other purposes. So I'd really like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u236	Yeah, okay. As far as I am concerned, as of tonight, the more fundamental research and development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u237	But you're afraid to take the name "science" in your mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u238	Yes, but science is also partly innovation. Science is research, is more fundamental research, and applied research is all science. In applied research, I'm already part of the innovation. Then I get into a fight with you, so I thought: then I'll make that distinction between more fundamental research and applied research. I think we're saying the same thing. You want to see where the odds are. Let me give you an example. I don't know if it's coming out, but I think it's free for a while; you can do that here. Quantum computing, artificial intelligence, certain related developments in the humanities. I come to another question from Mrs Bredenoord about the role of science and government and matters such as privacy and so on. These are all things where you have opportunities as the Netherlands. The field of biotechnology, where you're not sure if that's gonna pay off tomorrow. I can very well imagine that at some point there can be a case to look further in that direction. What you just need to avoid is that you're going to use the existing research money for other things. It must be "on top of." It should not be the case that existing research money is then spent on educational salaries, because that was not the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u239	Mrs. Bredenoord, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u240	That it should be on top of it, we totally agree. We'd like to mark that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u241	I think we're saying the same thing. I am not going to say that correctly, I am asking Wouter Koolmees, who sits next to me, and I have never been the intention in our internal discussion to scorch this on applied research alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u242	Just a very brief question about the reduction of charges and the investment fund. In fact, it exceeds the established frameworks and standards. Can I say, or should I note, that the salmon standard has been released?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u243	No, the salmon standard is definitely not released. What does happen, however, is that it is sometimes inevitable, under the climate agreement for example, to make a one-off framework correction. In the previous cabinet, we had to do that, I believe, in 2015. It's necessary every once in a while. This can also be done within the salmon system, which is not prohibited at all. But the main points of Zalm, which are that you're not going to cut back if you have any setbacks, unless you run through the 3% deficit, and use windfalls to speed up the debt relief, are completely standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u244	They stand up, but they are at least interpreted or filled out differently in this year, because at least a number of billions are being invested in these funds or in the relief of charges, which should normally be directed, for example, towards debt reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u245	In itself, the budgetary rules leave room for that, too, to ensure that... Look, of course, as a country, we have had a huge burden increase in the crisis. What you're doing right now is basically for the citizen. For the first time, we are going to pay less tax in this cabinet period than before the crisis. This is not the case for companies; they still have a heavy burden increase. But for the people in the country, the workers, it is a net relief. That space is in itself in the budgetary rules. Framework corrections can also be made, provided they are well-founded. This year, for example because of the issue of the Climate Agreement, such a framework correction is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u246	I have a question for the Prime Minister. How big is the investment fund going to be? I don't get the impression from this story that there's really been a lot of thinking about exactly where that money is being invested. I hear about knowledge and innovation, rather general concepts. How much money are we talking about here, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u247	I'm gonna go over the criticism first. No, that's right, but that's also why we're coming up with this letter later this year on the opportunities and opportunities to further strengthen our growth potential. That's Wiebes' letter. Early next year, the letter from Hoekstra and Wiebes will be about how to use the low interest rate. That is exactly why we want to do this very carefully. It's about big money. Although you might be able to lend that very favorably, it's still money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u248	How much?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u249	In the Millions note, we indicated that it could increase to many tens of billions over a very long period of time. Then you really talk about many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u250	In any case, I welcome the progressive insight in the cabinet that it is now time for budgetary policy and not monetary policy, as I mentioned in my maiden speech today. Because that doesn't work anymore, given the low interest rate. I am also pleased that the Cabinet recognises that it can now be financed with the low interest rate by not paying the public debt any further. What I am less pleased about is that you want to use this money for an investment fund, which does not give me a warm feeling that you know exactly what you want to do with it. The collective burden pressure has already risen to 40% under the Rutte cabinet. Instead of investing more money through the government now, I would really like to strongly advise you: indeed, go and borrow that money, because it costs nothing. You're even getting money. Do the same for a long time, because the money will be worth less in 20 years and you will pay less in return. Now use this to take concrete measures, for example to greatly increase the general tax rebate and the elderly discount. I've just come from a meeting with Secretary of State Snel on the Finance Committee. I have said to Mr Snel: I greatly appreciate your operational qualities. If you put everything on top of everything, when can you have adjusted the tax rebates? Mr Snel assured me that this could simply be introduced on 1 January, because tariff changes are very easy to achieve. I would therefore strongly advise you to use the low interest rates that we now have. Don't wait endlessly with letters and investment funds that you don't yet know what it's going to do, but just use it as of January 1st to reduce the burden for all working and retired Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u251	Mr. Otten likes to postulate himself as a right-wing VVD, but he is not at all. It's just a whole left-wing game. What Mr Otten is doing here is really taking a big risk with public finances. I really need to warn you about this. Of course, it's not like you can borrow because you have a low interest rate. Eventually, you still have to pay off the money. Let's say the interest rate is going to rise again at some point and you've substantially increased the public debt. If you have done this unwisely and if, as Mr Otten suggests now, you have also spent consumerly and structurally and not occasionally because that is of course what you talk about when you withdraw money from the market, once via a fund idea, then I think that is dangerous... That may be too harsh a term, but I find that dangerous in relation to public finances. So that doesn't testify to a right-wing VVD. He wouldn't do that. Neither does a right-wing CDA guy. It's okay to have established that. Moreover, this cabinet greatly reduces the burden, on a very broad front. We are right to do so, because we thought it was important, now that we could, to ensure that the burden increase resulting from the crisis was net inflow. In the meantime, this has been done in full and the burden increase has been turned into a reduction in charges compared to before the crisis. This applies to citizens, not businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u252	Finally, Mr Otten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u253	Your comment about that left and right VVD guy, I'll leave you to it. I just heard Mr Rutte talking about top salaries, and I thought I heard Prime Minister Kok talking 20 years ago. Speaking of left and right. But the point is that interest rates are now very low, even for long-term loans: for 20 years you can also borrow 0%. The odds that in 20 years' time that money will be worth as much as it is now, aren't very big. Inflation will indeed rise once and so will interest rates. So now use that to correct the bill you gave to the people for the crisis. That's when the economy kicks in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u254	Mr. Otten, not consummate, is it? That's very unwise, isn't it? I think it makes sense for you as a coalition to consider whether, because of the low interest rates, you can invest extra in exceptional growth opportunities for our economy. This is, of course, a one-off investment rather than a structural investment. You can't do that out of such a fund idea. That may well be multiannual, but in the end that is occasional in its nature. If you put that money into the structural reduction of income tax or other taxes, I say: we do, but from the normal budget. The Netherlands has a normal budget of 310, 320 billion and there is now room for relief. That's where we find each other. But I would really argue against doing so against the background of low interest rates. Because in the long term, you take very big risks with Dutch public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u255	On the previous point made by the Prime Minister when he said 'the top people of the multinationals are 10%', and the point he made in the past. That is, of course, a different language from the beginning of this cabinet period, when the Prime Minister really argued against any social flow in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. That cost 2 billion. Do you now, in 2019, think differently about that than a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u256	No. Why this cabinet, this coalition, thought it was important to abolish the dividend tax, which has failed spectacularly, in the end, I believe there were two people who wanted it, so after nine years I can say this job is derailed in all respects because I think it is a sensible measure. But I reassure Mr Rosenmöller: the cabinet does not intend to introduce the dividend tax again. But why did we ever introduce her? Because it was necessary to ensure that a number of companies, especially with a British-Dutch character, of which it is unique that they are there in an economy of the size of ours, stayed here. It is the largest company in Europe, Shell, and the second largest company on the London Stock Exchange, Unilever, but also companies that may want to come to Europe because of developments around Brexit. We wanted to make sure that you keep those companies here and get them. To that end, the cabinet, this coalition, considered it very important. We let go of that to come up with that dividend tax measure. That is completely unrelated to the income of those top men of these companies. That has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u257	I recognise the latter, as well as the fact that no one here will deny that multinationals play a particular role. You told Mr. Otten that he's portraying himself as a right-wing VVD. Of course, you will if you continue to argue for the abolition of the dividend tax. If the leader of the VVD on the other side argues in a note and explains again in the APB 'liberalism that works for people', can that be in line with the abolition of the dividend tax for multinationals? That is not 'liberalism that works for the multinationals', so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u258	No, you do not abolish the dividend tax for the top guys of the multinationals, you do so to ensure that these very big companies in the Netherlands, where a lot of people work, who are responsible for a lot of investment in the Dutch economy through their innovative power, stay here. I mentioned a company like Philips, including the former Philips companies, which accounts for 40% of the Dutch R&D. The sum of Shell and Unilever is 40% of the capitalised stock market value at the AEX in Amsterdam. As a result, the stock market is much larger than would fit the size of the Dutch economy, and as a result you attract other companies to the Netherlands who find it interesting to do their introductions in Amsterdam. This in turn leads to a great deal of additional employment. The only purpose I have is not those logos or those firms, the only purpose of me and the cabinet is employment and high-quality jobs. To guarantee that, liberalism, Christian democracy or confessionalism, which works for people, this coalition introduced that measure. That money does not end up in the pockets of the companies, which ends up in the hands of the shareholders. But that's what you do to prevent them from eventually leaving a relatively small economy like the Dutch way. That failed completely, the scratch couldn't be bigger. Then you have to kill the flag at some point. But if you're asking me if I think it's a sensible measure, I'm saying, yes, I still do. But we are not proposing to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u259	Last comment on this point, Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u260	I can understand that, and that reassures me. But if I hear you defend all of this here, shouldn't we just take into account that it will be on the VVD's election programme sometime, perhaps in a year's time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u261	Honestly, I don't think so. The VVD is not yet on its way to the absolute majority, so... And I don't think any other party still intends to support such a proposal. But you asked me if I thought it was a sensible proposal. Yeah, that's what I found and I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u262	Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u263	The conclusion is therefore that it is a good proposal from the Prime Minister's point of view and that it is probably not included in the VVD's electoral programme because others think it is a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u264	Well, I'm not gonna talk about an election program from the VVD that's still out there. But you asked me if I thought it was a good proposal. How does that relate to Dijkhoff, who says something about liberalism that works for people? Again, that goes for all the political parties in this coalition who want to do things for people. I believe that the Netherlands is currently at risk of leaving these very large companies, because we are not abolishing this dividend tax. But that's a risk we're taking. I hope it doesn't happen, we're trying to prevent it from happening on all sides. But it would be very bad for the Netherlands if they left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u265	The Prime Minister says he doesn't want to borrow. But where is he going to get those tens of billions for his investment fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u266	I have said that, against the background of low interest rates, it is a very logical idea to see what you can do to spend, if you borrow money, in a way that is not consumer, but focuses on strengthening the earning capacity of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u267	But then I can conclude that you're going to borrow money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u268	Yeah, I said that about five times. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u269	I would like to add my voice to what Paul Rosenmöller said about the new election programme of the VVD. That's gonna be exciting since the regular writer isn't gonna write about it anymore, I understand. 'Cause he's got another job to do right now. In my input, I asked for the following. I see movement in the coalition parties in the House of Representatives, I see movement in the Prime Minister, who is now making a number of proposals in his budget which were not his before, but they are now. That's good. Is the Prime Minister playing because he has to, or because he wants to? I commend his frankness that he says: I turn around because I have to, because if you ask me what I would like, I am still committed to abolishing the dividend tax and probably also to reducing the tax on profits. But that brings us a bit on unstable ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u270	Mr Kox is now claiming a lot of things that are not right, which I must detoxify first, as I believe is called in jargon. Look, I'm not in politics, and I don't believe anyone in this coalition, because I want to favor a particular interest, a particular organization, a particular company or a particular top man or top woman. I believe that we are all in politics because, from our political convictions, we are looking for the best way to organize society, in such a way that it leads to prosperity, to being there as a shield for the weak and to being there for people who do not make it. I am also thinking of good health care and good social security, but also of good jobs, a lot of innovation, etc. That...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u271	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u272	No, now I come to the question, because this was a bit to detox. Rendering the demand from this, it is therefore essential that you ensure that people can make progress, that those jobs are there, that there is a strong economy. I gave a speech a few years ago in which I said to the Fat I, a speech I believe five, six years ago. That is therefore a consistent line for me. I'm not there for any particular interest. I think it's very important that you have strong companies in a country, small and large companies, and people starting companies. Why is the Netherlands now less dependent on the German economy? Because we have received so many new, small, young companies, often also in the fur collar of those very large companies. So you also desperately need that interaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u273	The Prime Minister and I have known each other long enough. Thank you for making it clear once again that the present progress comes mainly from Eindhoven and Veldhoven, a place with which I am closely connected by birth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u274	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u275	It's good for those Amsterdammers to hear that sometimes. But I'm not saying the Prime Minister is there to help someone get a higher wage. I really don't believe that at all. I note that the Prime Minister, who has always said that vision is nothing, has been working from a very clear vision of society for ten years. This vision is: more market, less government and free play for businesses. That's not because he wants to favor a top man, but because he believes in all his fibers that this is the way to do it. Now that the political spectrum is shifting, I would like to refer to the General Reviews in the House of Representatives, the question is whether the Prime Minister is moving because he has no choice, or whether he is moving along because he has gained the insight that this is better at the moment. If that last insight is not there, then we still have a slightly unstable situation. I would like to make that quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u276	I don't know how the phrase would ever have come from me from "more market, less government." I think it's always the question where best to organize things. Very often that is in the market. What often also works very well are forms of market functioning, such as making quality differences transparent. When I was Secretary of State for Education, I was very opposed to marketing HBO or universities. However, I have made myself strong and we have taken steps to make the quality differences between one law school and another transparent: what kind of start-ups you get, what students think, what suppliers think, what the scientific returns are from such a faculty. They were very annoying about that. I said that these forms of market operation are very healthy. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is niet dat er een markt wordt geïntroduceerd op de universiteit, maar wel gewoon transparantie en openbaarheid.]] I don't think anything should go to the market at all. I am in favour of strong companies, because I believe that the best allocation of our means of production, capital and people, is through free enterprise production. I believe in that. I also believe that this creates an atmosphere in the country in which people take risks, try to move forward and create jobs. Besides a strong government, you need a strong market, with a very strong market master.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u277	Mr. Kox. Then I'm going to continue with block one of the nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u278	Finally, Mr President, on this subject. I thought I heard a rooster crow somewhere. You said you're really not from more market and less government, but I think friend and enemy have noticed that your cabinets' policies have led to more market and less government. We have just heard commendable words from the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that sometimes things have to be different. The question remains: is the Prime Minister moving away in his analysis of society, or does he say: if I could say so, did we just go further in the way we were doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u279	There are plenty of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u280	That is your right, but it is important for us to know what makes the Prime Minister move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u281	A stationary clock indicates the right time twice a day. You shouldn't want that. So I'm not arguing for that. In many areas there is progressive insight, but not in this respect. In this respect, it has always been my belief that a country needs strong entrepreneurship with small and large companies, and that a country needs a strong government that organises a number of essential framework conditions. We were in a crisis. We had to reverse 51 billion in terms of burden increase. I am glad that this increase in the burden on workers has now turned into a reduction in the burden by 2020. That's good news in itself. But for me, there is not the ideology behind the fact that by definition the government is bad and the market is good. Reagan said Washington is the problem, not the solution. I'm not one of them. Nor am I, like some in the SP circle perhaps, of a very large government that organizes everything. I don't believe in that either. You always have to look very pragmatically where you can do what's best. If that's the government, how do I make sure that quality differences are visible? I have often noticed that many sectors do not want that at all: the people who work there, but not the bosses. They find it very annoying to have to admit during a drink that they run the law faculty that came out of the ranking so badly. That's why they were against those rankings. They'd rather have a little fun with each other. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u282	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u283	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bredenoord asked about technological enterprises and regulation. She asked whether it should not be done at European level. In this respect, we see the need for regulation in a number of areas. In May, a letter was sent to the Court on competition and platforms. We advocate a European regulator for large platforms with a gatekeeper function. This type of discussion is therefore under way and the Dutch Government chooses to do so. We see European agreements on data as more effective, simply because the data economy has a very strong international character. I agree with Mrs Bredenoord on this point. You can look very specifically at the issue of artificial intelligence, algorithms and everything that gets away from it. I won't list all the letters we sent about this. Basically, the government has to set a number of frameworks. I've had my own conversations with companies recently. Secretary of State Emperor is also working intensively on this. We challenge companies to help with this. Those developments on AI, quantum computing and so on are going so fast that we should not think that as a government we are able to come up with all these frameworks ourselves. You have to interact with companies, where it is not, of course, corporateism. We have to decide as a policy in a direct dialogue with the Chambers, but you do need that input. That is the challenge we have met with companies like Microsoft, but also with other companies I have spoken to recently. I said help us, because if we want to exploit the benefits of AI socially, then we need to have some things sorted out. There have been a number of social concerns in this area that we are currently unable to see properly. If we don't take care of these things properly, it will lead to a decline in support. Mrs Bredenoord also asked about knowledge development. I think I've already answered that question during the interruption. We then discussed public investment and how it contributes to the entrepreneurial environment and to economic growth. With that, I think I have answered the questions in the area of economics and taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u284	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for your answer. I would like to ask a question for clarification. You say you have a responsibility together with companies. I'd like to hear more about how you feel about the role of the government. For example, someone uploads photos of their children on Facebook or Instagram. For the individual consumer, it is no longer possible to monitor what happens to those data. Is the photo stored? Is the photo being shared? Is the information used to further develop face recognition? You can't put this down to individual citizens anymore. As far as I'm concerned, as a government, you have to say that privacy is no longer enough. You actually have to impose positive obligations on the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u285	I'm going a long way with that. That's what our letter says. We sent three letters on this subject on 8 October. Among other things, it addresses the issue of public value and human rights. That's what this is about. However, uploading a photo is an even easier subject than the subjects AI, quantum computing and everything that gets away from it. I have to tell you, I haven't been able to get my hands around that. My assessment is for the time being that this is starting a transformation, a transformational development that may be greater than the introduction of the Internet itself. The developments on AI and quantum computing can be so enormous and have such a huge impact on the way we live and on our relationships to each other and to the government, that I do not yet know if we are able to create all those frameworks for privacy alone as a government. We have to challenge the companies to think with. They shouldn't sit back and say that's up to the government. I think it's part of their responsibility, too. In addition, it is our job, of you and me together, to draw conclusions without those companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u286	I totally agree with you on that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u287	Would you like to speak through the chairman, Mrs Bredenoord?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u288	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with the Prime Minister in that regard, but I do not think that the Netherlands should do so alone. I think we should do it internationally, at least at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u289	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u290	It would be good to think further about the responsibilities of this kind of technological enterprise. Take the example I mentioned earlier. Wrong information is knowingly distributed to specific groups via AI technology. It is therefore knowingly said that there will be elections on 17 February, while they will be on 19 February. I think it's important that you say you don't have a grip on it yet. That's actually the point I want to make. I think that the cabinet should have a very quick grip on this, because this is such an incredibly important issue that I would particularly like to encourage you to make this really urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u291	Sure, but that's what we're doing with the letter of October 8th. In that we have named those different elements. This debate is now also taking place with civil society organisations and with the Chamber. So I agree. One step further and you're in the fake news or you're already in the fake news. Of course, we've all seen it on TV recently. I saw Obama's little movie in a small circle a year ago where you think: hey, that's Obama; that's nice. He starts talking and eventually the worst lyrics come out, but it's all Obama. Then you think, "Well, wow!" Let's say one day before the election of one list-taker or another, one of those videos shows up in which that kind of diarrhea comes out of his mouth. That's totally fake, but it's so cleverly put together that everyone thinks it's real. That is a very big subject. So that's what you have to arm yourself against as a society. So I agree with that, but I am not going to say here that I already have the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u292	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u293	Even when you talk about this internationally, this was one of the themes at the last Bilderberg conference in Montreux. But they do feel that social responsibility, because this can be incredibly disruptive. But this also removes the support for all the positives of AI and there are, of course, very positive opportunities in this technological development. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the second issue would be the question of purchasing power and the development of burdens. In the Netherlands, of course, the question of the differences in income and income inequality is immediately addressed. I say to Mr Rosenmöller that, as we know, this is calculated on the basis of different income definitions. Primary household income is a definition of income that looks at household income before tax. The primary income consists of the remuneration for work, the result of the own enterprise and the proceeds of the assets. As far as primary income is concerned, it is true that there has been an increase in inequality in the Netherlands since the turn of the century. But that does not go on in an increasing inequality of disposable income, because the government has started to redistribute more to prevent that. The most commonly used definition of "income inequality" is that of disposable household income, so that part that remains after we give Father State his share. That definition is the most consistent with the income that people eventually experience in their wallets. On this basis, we are one of the few developed countries where income inequality is relatively low and not increasing. We also have a progressive tax system in the Netherlands, of course, and we have surcharges that are heavily redistributed. I therefore disagree with the conclusion that income inequality is increasing. There is more to it than the opposite. In the end, of course, it is not so much a question in the Netherlands. We are one of the most levelled countries in the world. The question is how do we ensure that everyone reports that the economy is now improving. Well, I'm happy to do that now. In Chile, by the way, you can see what happens when a relatively rich country is one of the countries with the greatest income inequality. Then you'll have a little more on the Malieveld than we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u294	Thank you for this response. The coalition agreement says: The Netherlands must not only progress in the statistics; the Dutch must also experience this themselves. That is also a bit of a resonance of what you yourself have said several times: people must experience that they are making progress as a result of the economic situation. The SCP says in The social state of the Netherlands, last month: that is not the case. That is the state of play in October 2019. Is it then concluded that government policy in this area has so far failed after two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u295	We've only had one round of relief. That was last January's round. You can see that people say that they don't experience enough in the wallet. It is there in real terms of course, but people don't experience it that way. Now we are seeing considerable increases in disposable income, for example for people around modal, one to one and a half times modal. In many cases, they improve more than 4%. This is, of course, a summation of all kinds of developments, but also of the fact that we brought forward a year later's reduction of charges and allowed the reduction of charges to continue next year. We are accelerating towards the two-disk system and we are seeing revenue rising from wage increases in companies and also in the government, where it is moving towards 3%. In that respect, my expectation is that people will experience more of it, but you can never make promises about it, because I can never determine what someone experiences or doesn't. But the transfers by the Central Planning Office of the expected increase in purchasing power are nevertheless figures that we have not seen in the recent past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u296	I think that's too easy. The coalition agreement is two years old. So you cannot say: we now have one round of load relief, etc. The coalition agreement is two years old. A passage in the coalition agreement is that the Dutch not only have to experience in the statistics but more in the wallet that they are making progress. And it's big business. You're keeping a technical story now. You can hold a cabinet to this, can't you? The question is whether we can get some kind of security through the cabinet or can expect that in the next social state of the Netherlands, which will be released for the APB of 2020 in the autumn, it says that government policy also leads people to experience that they are making progress. That is the promise you made in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u297	Would you like to speak through the chairman, Mr. Rosenmöller?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u298	I can't give guarantees about what anyone experiences personally, can I? I can say that I had a delicious Indian meal at Poentjak yesterday, but perhaps you don't like it there at all. That's a personal experience. What we can do is to do with all the things that are in the hands of the government: to stimulate the growth of public sector salaries in line with what is happening in companies and to reduce taxes. We are now seeing purchasing power increases at the Central Planning Office that we haven't seen in years. Or do they occur to that extent? Those aren't promises. They are predictions by the Central Planning Bureau on the basis of government policy and on the basis of what the Central Planning Bureau expects to work out on that basis from what is going to happen in the real economy. So I suspect that more people will experience it, but I can never guarantee what anyone is experiencing. That's very personal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u299	Mr. Rosenmöller, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u300	I find this strange. We have not mentioned expectations and experiences. You say in the coalition agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u301	Would you like to speak through the chairman, Mr. Rosenmöller?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u302	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u303	No, you keep talking about you, but I don't think you mean me by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u304	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u305	Oh, then I have to answer, too, but that doesn't fit in with my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u306	But just a little while, Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement states: The Dutch must also experience this for themselves. That's something you and your coalition have written down, Chairman. Yeah, well, after 16 years, you're gonna lose a lot of weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u307	What Mr Rutte's coalition has written down; you would have liked to say that. And that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u308	The question is this. The social state of the Netherlands says that this has not been achieved so far. You're not denying that either. When can we see that the cabinet is making this promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u309	Again, this is a bit of a semantic discussion, because I cannot give a guarantee on an individual level that everyone experiences the way things are. What I can say is that if we now have so much burden relief in crumbs in combination with the wage increases that are taking place in collective agreements, people will, of course, experience that very strongly on their pay slip. But I cannot guarantee that they will appreciate that as an experience that justifies the appreciation of that experience. I've had that experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u310	I'm just gonna take over the stick anyway, 'cause...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u311	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u312	The coalition also sometimes acts together, and so does the opposition. These are fine answers from the Prime Minister, but of course they don't add up. When the Social and Cultural Planning Agency says "experienced," Kim Putters doesn't mean Jantje or Pietje. Then that's an event to measure and quantify. I know that our Prime Minister lately, because of damage and shame, you become wise, I don't promise anything anymore, because they hang me up on my promises; so I'm just saying that it could. But that's not enough for a government. A government promises something in the coalition agreement. If you don't keep that promise, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm gonna tell you through the chairman, you're gonna have to deal with that. The government cannot say: we hoped it would happen this way and we did our best but it is only an effort. Governing is forward-looking, but ruling is also performance. If this isn't true, too... I didn't just ask for nothing if the Prime Minister does what he does because he has to because of the circumstances or because he wants to. The Prime Minister clearly does not want to say: yes, of course, in a year's time Kim Putters will write that they have improved; I promised. If we don't get that hard, the cabinet will rest on reasonably unstable ground. I told you before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u313	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u314	If that question were asked, my expectation is that Mr Putters will say that you could have written that down over the past year too, that people have actually improved in terms of reduced tax burden and increased income. I can't guarantee how people will personally appreciate that in their experience. Mr Kox asked if the cabinet would do what it had intended. As far as the burden development is concerned, so far, the cabinet has carried out all the plans it has. On top of that, additional burden relief is provided and the reduction of charges by 2021 to 2020 has been achieved, which accelerates us towards those two levels of taxation. This is a political wish from among others the CDA, but it was also in the electoral programs of other parties, which has found its reflection in the coalition agreement. Everything we've promised in that sense, we do. But Mr Rosenmöller's question was about how that would then turn out in the experience. But then I say, you're in the semantics of the word "experience." When Mr. Kox asks, "Do you do what you promise?" Then my answer is that we all do. We're doing more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u315	It is not about the personal experience of every Dutchman. You can indeed measure what the Dutch people experience. Jantje may find something quite different than Pietje, but an average comes out. I see a hesitation in this cabinet and certainly in this Prime Minister saying: my efforts must also lead to a result. We're gonna have to talk about child poverty. This Chamber has been debating this for three years and has already adopted two motions on it, which say: government, tell us how to quantitatively reduce child poverty. There too, the Prime Minister refuses to do so. He says "we'll do our best" and what comes out of there, we should see. That's a little too liberal, Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u316	In a quantitative sense, we do what we have intended, but the question of the word "experience" is a qualitative question. In the end, I cannot decide for people how they experience and appreciate the victorious work of the cabinet in that sense. That will, of course, be a choice of the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u317	Finally. Next year, when we read Kim Putters' report, it says: the Dutch, taken by the bank, have all made a lot of progress and that's how they experience it. Is that a deal we can make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u318	Because you never know what is happening economically, the CPB figures are not promises but pass on what the Central Planning Office expects to be the effects of government policy. Weird things can happen, but assuming ceteris paribus that no economic crazy things happen, I expect the Central Planning Bureau to quote just our mathematician, who does not work under our guidance but is independent that this leads to very substantial reliefs. I may assume that people will experience that, but of course I can never give that guarantee. It's a choice of people themselves about what they experience. We have a free country. Mr. Chairman. In the same context, Mr Knapen had a question about savings. I'm saying a few things about that, because he also mentioned a few things. Redempting the mortgage is a form of saving, but as we all know it serves another purpose. We have fairly high household debts and we want to try to reduce the risks for households at falling house prices. That is why we are also looking to reduce the overall mortgage debt of households compared to the value of the housing. This also prevents mortgages from getting underwater. Furthermore, the cabinet plans to reform box 3, so that savers are spared. Mr Knapen also mentioned ECB policy. The Cabinet is always watching to find something of that. I can only raise the eyebrows or let them know what I think, but I can never say that. I think it is very important that we keep the ECB independent. That is a debate I often have on the other side of Mr Omtzigt, where we always try to ask each other about what we really think. However, the main reason for low interest rates is structural at the moment. It is not so much the ECB's fault. All over the world, you're seeing low interest rates right now. The decline in inflation and expected inflation, the decline in potential growth and the change in the age structure of a population are all working through this. So it is not just ECB policy that causes low interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u319	In fact, I think that perhaps the ECB is contributing to this phenomenon of over-saving, which is indeed global. The cabinet could indeed do something about box 3. I understand that this will be done in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u320	I don't have this ready. I'm gonna take a look out of the way. Is that right? Yeah, that's right, in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u321	We now live in 2019. When we talk about this subject at the kitchen table, we ask ourselves various questions: what do I do? Save or save? Save and save at the same time? It might help if the cabinet sends a message that saving makes sense, by doing something about box 3. Why does that have to take another two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u322	I don't have that ready here. Then I'm gonna have to gamble. I'm sure that's in technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u323	Why don't you just say: we'll do that next year!?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u324	Again, because I'm not on sure footing if I can properly assess the technique. I think there are good reasons for this and this really has to do with the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u325	The Prime Minister doesn't know that. I'll brief him on what's going on, because I also asked Secretary of State Snel earlier this evening. He said: it is true that this cannot be done à la minute, because the banks have to adapt it in their software and that cannot be arranged in a few months. What can be arranged in a few months is changing the tax rebates. You yourself said: private debts are relatively high in the Netherlands. In a country like Italy, public debt is very high, but private debt is very low. With us, it's the other way around. That is indeed a dangerous trend, so you have to give people money to do something about it. I repeat my appeal, and that has nothing to do with left or right VVD: do something to reduce this collective burden and allow people to keep more disposable income at the end of the month. That's just possible. There's room. Klaas Knot explained this in detail. He even said that the public debt is likely to be too low. There will soon be insufficient assets for banks to use as collateral for lending. We shouldn't pay off the government debt anymore. It's 47% now and that's very...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u326	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u327	We're all doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u328	Why the Prime Minister doesn't deal with the tax rebates if he wants to reduce the debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u329	That's all in the package. We'll do anything. We also do the tax rebates. We have a whole package of reliefs in which the tax rebates are included. I don't understand the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u330	Then you have the fastest bane for the bug to get the economy going, especially now that it's going less well and for...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u331	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u332	One of the reasons why I expect people to experience that we are doing better is that we are giving such heavy reliefs, although I cannot guarantee that this is going to happen. We give this through the use of the entire organ to instruments, including the tax rebates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u333	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u334	Yes, Mr President, I hope that I can talk as long as Mr Kox and that you do not always turn my microphone shut when I try to ask. I would like to ask once again: look at the measures that are feasible in the short term and have a good effect in the context of tax relief in the field of tariffs. I would urge the cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u335	Next year, the top fare will go to 49.5% and we will clap the lower discs together. That's not for nothing. We all do that a year earlier than we planned. We see that it gives a very neat income picture to the best Dutch traditions. We don't level and we don't level, that's all a little bit the same. We always do that very neatly. We are already one of the most levelled countries in the world. We all do that very neatly. The same applies to the reduction of charges. I fully agree with Mr Otten. The relief is even very strong and goes in the direction of what the previous cabinet did in 2016 and what went through the Chamber at the end of 2015. She's heading for that size now. Returning to the question of the one- and two-earners, the answer has come up a bit. In the end, there is a choice as to the phasing out of the transferable tax rebate. That is a policy choice that has been made. On the other hand, in this coalition with parties who have made a big point in their electoral programme, we are trying to see what we can do to keep the ship afloat. The instruments for this are limited. We have taken measures to further restore that balance, because of the flat rate in the two-wheel system, for example, it is now less important whether the household income is earned by one or two persons. That helps. The additional relief in August was achieved a year earlier than the coalition agreement intended, which makes it possible to introduce these two discs already. We also tackle the extreme peaks in marginal pressure. The hard income limit in the rent allowance disappears. There will be an additional build-up path in the employment discount. And the phasing-out limit for couples in the child-related budget will be increased. If you had a purely liberal coalition, this image would look different, I think. You can see a typical compromise that also belongs to the Netherlands between confessional and liberal parties working together, but while the underlying engine of this is of course that reduction of that transferable tax rebate, I thought in twenty years' time it will continue to have its effect. That is also inevitable. There's a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u336	First of all, I would like to congratulate the government on all the measures that have at least brought about an increase in purchasing power, but that does not change the gap that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u337	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u338	I think the Prime Minister will confirm that, too. It would be great if, in a manner of speaking, this could also happen in the coming year. Perhaps it is a time to reverse the phasing-out of the general tax rebate, which was simply conceived in the last century.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u339	I understand that policy, political view, but of course two parties clash with two other parties in this coalition. You'll come to compromises. This leads, for example, also in the best Dutch polder tradition, to the fact that the average purchasing power development of one earner and two earners is now virtually the same. An earner with a moderate income now has even the most advantage from the measures taken by the cabinet; they are moving towards the 5% increase in purchasing power. We have agreed that we will continue to take measures before 2021 if the ratio between one and two earners becomes unbalanced. So that's what we're all really doing. Your neighbor's party and, of course, the CDA have an important part to play in this. Mr. Chairman. So far, I think, about purchasing power and burden development. Then I come to the subject of the labour market and social security. Yes, Mr Koolmees is getting alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u340	Is that block two or block three where we're going?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u341	That's block three. We're moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u342	We're going to three now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u343	Yes. It's the big blocks, I might add.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u344	It's going a little fast on three now. I had a specific question. I waited until the Prime Minister could answer that question. Everyone gets it better, only the middle incomes get it better than the lower incomes. That's de-leveling. Why doesn't the large group of people who work and do their best, get the same 2.5%? I'm not talking about an "experience" or anything, I'm just talking about a hard percentage, I'd rather spend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u345	The point is that in this category, the purchasing power of the lower incomes also includes the people with benefits. It is true that they are also improving, but a little less than the workers. The workers in that quartile at the bottom are about similar to those in the other quartiles. But in the lower quartile is of course also very dominant the group of people with benefits. It also rises, linked et cetera. But, by definition, they always have a somewhat less direct effect on wage increases than on workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u346	I find that by definition a bad attitude, because these people also have to go through time, have costs and are fully part of our society. So you continue to disagree with me that these people, including those entitled to benefits, are entitled to experience, no, simply to see that they are also progressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u347	That happens, that happens, just a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u348	Yeah, but for middle income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u349	They are slightly less advanced, but we see the following for the people with benefits. A. With Sweden, we are among the countries with the highest benefits in the world. So we do that very civilized and neatly. Two. These benefits will also increase in the coming years. But, of course, it has been the policies of different Cabinets to ensure that your work is sufficiently attractive as prosperity increases. In this way, you will ensure that there is sufficient difference between a benefit and a job, without the people with benefits having to go backwards. In fact, they're getting better too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u350	Finally, Mr Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u351	The difference is getting bigger. This is de-levelling. So one gets more advantage than the other. And that's my point. Then give them the same benefits. I don't think we're gonna agree, but you know my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u352	It's not de-levelling. It would be de-levelling if you took money from the bottom and gave it to the higher incomes. It's leveling when you take money from the high people and give it to the lower incomes. That's de-leveling and leveling. We don't do either. There's room now. Driven from my party, I say: we are okay with income differences getting smaller. My party is classically opposed to taking it away from higher incomes to give it to middle incomes and lower incomes. That's leveling. We both don't. Where the economy is growing and so you have an increasing prosperity for workers and benefit recipients, you try to get everyone to benefit in a decent way, but at the same time I find it very justifiable that the difference is getting bigger. Work must be rewarding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u353	I waited until the end of the story about purchasing power. I haven't heard from the Prime Minister about the purchasing power of pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u354	I now come to the subject of labour market and social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u355	But I want to ask a question about purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u356	No, but then I'm gonna talk about pensions and then everything comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u357	No, no, I'm not going to talk about pensions in this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u358	Oh, sorry. I thought... Mr Van Rooijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u359	Just a moment, Prime Minister. It's gonna be okay. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u360	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u361	Why would he think it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u362	We're gonna cut that apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u363	There is another form of de-levelling in the fiscal policy of this cabinet. Over the next three years, the burden on workers will now also be reduced by an additional 2.1 billion by increasing the reduction in labour costs, not fear, of €1,000. The employment discount will rise by €1,000 over the next three years. That's $2 billion. What happens for the elderly? They only receive the inflation correction on the elderly discount, which is €26 this year and is likely to be €26 or €30 over the next two years with the same inflation. This means that the old-age discount will rise to a maximum of €100 in three years, while it will increase by €1,000 for workers. This is a form of de-levelling: increasing the differences between workers and not more workers. So I am not talking about pension indexing and rebates, which makes things much worse, but that is all going to happen later on, but about fiscal policy and purchasing power. Can you confirm that the employment discount costs 2 billion over the next three years and the increase in the elderly discount this year is only €26? It's in the pieces, so all you have to do is say yes; no can be done. Do you recognise that this difference is so great and that that means that the purchasing power of the elderly is under pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u364	Mr Van Rooijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u365	Do you recognize that? All you have to do is say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u366	Mr Van Rooijen, I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u367	Mr Van Rooijen is taking one thing out now, but you have to look at the whole picture. Look at the whole picture, including the people with only AOW. Let's get it, or the people with a small supplementary pension. Look, the people with more supplementary pensions naturally show differences, also because of the returns of pension funds. We'll talk about that in a minute. But if you look at the whole income building, so also at the people with a slightly smaller pension or with only AOW, you can see that it is a neat factor in purchasing power development. So you have to show the whole picture and not light one thing out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u368	There is one thing the cabinet can praise, but that is also just an automatic inflation: the AOW is rising this year and next year...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u369	That's a hell of a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u370	...just come along, just like the minimum wage, to which it is linked. That's all fine. That's endogenous. I am talking about the fact that the cabinet exogene, above that, gives workers a reduction of €1,000 over three years, a great purchasing power impulse, and that there is only a minimal, endogenous, mandatory, small increase for the elderly discount. All you have to do is say yes to that. Then you should not bring up the AOW or the pension funds. That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u371	I don't think this is a fair discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u372	But do you acknowledge that that was a conscious choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u373	The conscious choice that we have made is that we think it is decent for the elderly to grow with us. And then you look at the whole thing. Then you have to look at the whole purchasing power picture, and that includes what the AOW does. Mr Van Rooijen is now taking out one measure, which he is going to look at in isolation. Yeah, that's how I like one. We are, of course, taking all kinds of measures in the tax package, in the discs, in the labour discount, in the old-age discount, in all kinds of areas. This ultimately leads to a balanced purchasing power picture, including for those with smaller pensions. You can see some different, different purchasing power figures here and there, of course, in the case of higher pensions, because there you can also see the effect of the returns of the funds. But certainly the people with a smaller pension or with AOW grow very decently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u374	Mr. Van Rooijen, the last at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u375	But I can't get an answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u376	No, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u377	I'm entitled to an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u378	You can ask a lot of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u379	I might as well not ask questions, because I just can't get an answer. It is true that the AOW gives an improvement, especially for small incomes. But you cannot say: because we raise the AOW... That is not an achievement, because that is just what the law says; it is linked to the minimum wage. Just acknowledge that in fiscal policy there is a major reduction in the burden on workers and not on the elderly. And that old people's discount is not there for rich elderly people, whose pensions are not indexed at all. This old age discount stops at €35,000, while the employment discount stops at €70,000 or €80,000 and is reduced much more slowly. So the old-age discount is kind of on the side. The reduction in labour costs is now 22 billion and the old-age discount is some 3 billion. That also indicates what this cabinet is doing, like the previous cabinet. Just admit that's a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u380	The strange thing about Mr Van Rooijen is that he is now taking one measure out of it and saying: 'now acknowledge sister and everything'. And then I have to start recognising what we're doing at measure level. It's just in the pieces. The question is, in the end, what is its effect? Because what we send out in this country are the purchasing power plates for the different groups. I'd say that's a lot of things, but that's the way we do it. This shows that, in the end, this creates a very balanced purchasing power picture. That's what you have to look at in the end, of course. You shouldn't just look at measure level and say: yes, they do and they don't; how about that? When it comes to the drives, of course, the elderly simply take full advantage of the relief. And in the end you see that people with only AOW or with a slightly smaller pension grow very decently along with the general picture. You have to see what the outcome is if you add all these measures together. We'll send for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u381	Mr. Van Rooijen, your fourth and final interruption at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u382	That's selective shopping. It's true that people with only...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u383	That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u384	...AOW and a small pension are lucky to improve a little bit. All the figures have shown this for years. That's thanks to the AOW. My point concerns in particular the modal pensioners with an income of €35,000 to €40,000. They then have €30,000 in pension next to the AOW. That $30,000 pension has been suspended for ten years. I'm not talking about discount. The pension is not indexed. Those people don't get a higher old discount either. People with a modal pension, i.e. a mobile retirement income, are entitled to a reduction in the burden equal in principle to that of workers. This is just tax age discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u385	In the disks, they take advantage. I think that the final result in terms of purchasing power is balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u386	I suggest we put a stop to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u387	Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u388	Let's give the Prime Minister a chance to make a few meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u389	And just when we're getting to pensions. What a good time!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u390	If we have a few meters, we can attack again. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u391	Mr Van Rooijen thinks: I will at least be there threateningly, near the interrupting microphone. Mr. Chairman. Then I will come to the issue of pensions, well-timed. Let me first say that I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that retirement should also be robust for the younger generations. He had a good point. This means that pension funds should not only pay the pensions of the people who are now retired, but also ensure that there is money for pensions in 50 years' time. That should be reserved for now. It is very difficult to determine what happens between now and 50 years in terms of life expectancy and the return of pension funds. There is great uncertainty about actual returns. I would like to mention the example of the ABP. This achieved a 2.7% return in 2015, 9.5% in 2016, 7.6% in 2017 and 2.3% in 2018. That shows how uncertain the returns are. That is why they are not suitable to determine how much euro you have to book today to pay a decent pension in 50 years' time. That's why we use the calculus rate. It is based on the return that pension funds should be able to achieve if they are making risk-free and safe investments. The interest rate has indeed fallen very sharply. We talked about it: you can see that the government sometimes benefits from it in government bonds. But here we all notice it in a negative sense. This means that pension funds need to reserve much more money for the future. Let me give you another example. It's a good thing to mention that here. Twenty years ago, a fund had to have €21 in cash for a pension of €100 twenty years later. Now such a fund must hold €91 in cash for that same pension of €100 over twenty years. The amount to be held in order to pay a pension of €100 over 20 years has thus increased from €21 to €91. In other words, saving has just become more expensive. In this way, the commitments of the Funds have undoubtedly increased. I can't make it prettier either. So you can't just say: let's just raise the arithmetic rate. That would mean handing out money before it's earned. This puts you at enormous risk with the pensions of younger generations, because that return is extremely uncertain. If the return is actually earned at that time, then a pension fund will also benefit from it. The assets of a pension fund then grows. If the buffers are in order, they can also pay you that return, for example by indexing pensions in part or in full. We agreed in the pension agreement that we would distribute more quickly and reduce pensions more quickly in the event of worse returns. Actually, that's the deal from the pension agreement. Currently, there are pension funds that can index. Other funds are just bad for it. They have no buffers and low levels of coverage. Their ability has often grown, but their coverage has fallen. As I said before, this is because savings have become more expensive for later. In contrast to the growing wealth, pension funds need to reserve more money for young people. Again, that is the example of that €91 and that €21 for €100 over twenty years. On balance, this is currently negative for many funds. That's why you have to look at pension contributions in relation to life expectancy. Fortunately, people live longer and longer, but for a long time pension contributions have not been adapted to this and employees have actually paid too little contribution. There's nothing these workers can do about that, but that's a fact. Ultimately, this is a problem of division between generations. That's what the Cabinet stands for now. I honestly say to Mr Van Rooijen and others that, unfortunately, there is no button that you can turn on, such as the interest rate, with which the problem would have been solved. Then you take big risks. As far as we are concerned, the risk-free calculation rate is the most objective measure. This ensures a balanced and fair distribution of total pension assets between all participants and also that pensions of young people and older people can continue to be paid, as Mr Van Rooijen advocates. The thing about technology. What we are doing now also knows Mr Van Rooijen, because we have of course already had the discussion in the House of Representatives. The Van Dijk motion of the Labour Party asks: look what you can do to avoid unnecessary discounts. Minister of Social Affairs Wouter Koolmees is working on that. "Unnecessary discounts" is, of course, a political formulation. We can joke about that, but I understand that wording. I think he was cleverly chosen. We're gonna watch that with each other. We are working on this and we hope to inform the Chambers about it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u392	Thank you for the answer, which of course I have heard regularly in the House of Representatives and also belong here since I came here. So it's not much news. New is that 60 prominent people who were not party to the debate on the adjustment of the interest rate have spoken out two or three weeks ago. They actually say: look at that risk-free interest rate, which is fixed, but can you also take into account returns? In other words, a kind of combination of a piece of market interest and a piece of return. They think that's prudent, and I agree. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take over the suggestion of those 60 prominent people to appoint a committee in the short term to see if, in addition to risk-free interest rates, you could take into account returns in the adapted accounting rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u393	No. I am prepared to implement the commitment that has also been made in the House of Representatives and which I repeat here: Koolmees is currently looking at how to avoid unnecessary discounts. I am prepared to do so, but I am not going to anticipate the instruments now. I'd like to warn you about two things. I think it's really dangerous to mess with the calculus rate. The second idea is that there is more possible because the total capital of pension funds has grown in this way. Yeah, that's right. Those assets have doubled, but the obligations have tripled. They're still about the same level, around 1,400 billion. So that's really a lack of confrontation, which I hear sometimes. I hear her not so much today from Mr Van Rooijen, but sometimes in other circles. I think we should really be careful about that. We look as creative as possible. There is, of course, already a softening in the pension agreement. Again, Koolmeen is now looking at what else can be done to avoid unnecessary discounts. He also talks about this with the Pension Federation, the social partners and supervisors. In doing so, we are going to look at how the differences between pension funds can actually have arisen. What are the possibilities of action to get out of there? He promised to come forward with a letter on this matter on 20 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u394	Mr Van Rooijen, your second interruption on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u395	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The 60 letterwriters said, "That's what I think we all agree on - that when they suggest you shouldn't have the primary aim of getting the discounts off the table. That's what they say explicitly in the letter. They say that we not only want a risk-free interest rate, but also include the returns, or part of the realised return. That is what all of Europe and actually the whole world is doing. My question is whether the Prime Minister will promise that that committee can be set up, to see if a combination of market interest rates and returns can be set up, as they literally say. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u396	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u397	I didn't play it like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u398	I'm not talking about a month's returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u399	I just gave the floor to the Prime Minister. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u400	Again, I have Mr. Van Rooijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u401	I have sometimes heard Mr Kox and Mr Rosenmöller ask the same question for three minutes. You interrupted me this afternoon. This is only the third time I've been standing here. You're interrupting me again. That's what you did to Mr. Otten. Apparently we keep small groups and newcomers small and let us talk about parties we can deal with endlessly. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u402	Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u403	I can sit down all night, because you're actually taking the word away from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u404	We've got previous...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u405	I'm gonna ask you a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u406	We agreed last week in the College of Seniors: short interruptions, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and two or up to three interruptions. That's what I apply to everyone here. Once or twice, there are four. We also agreed that the President should be addressed. Those minutes were approved today, in front of everyone. I'll do no less than try to hold you to that. You are now at your third interruption on this subject and I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u407	However, I do not understand why you allow Mr Kox and Mr Rosenmöller to speak for ten minutes and I do not yet have two minutes. I don't understand. Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to get an answer to my question to the Prime Minister, quite apart from the Secretary of State's letter. Those 60 prominent people know that as well, they are smart enough to know that, but yet they write that letter and simply ask if the cabinet is willing. It is a letter to the group chairmen, but with it also to the coalition and all parties to set up that committee in the short term, so to look at it, it is not that it has to be done whether there is a combination of market interest and return. After all, other countries only work with returns. We have the lowest calculus rate. I did come to surprise the Prime Minister, but not to surprise the young. This 0% rate of calculation means that contributions have to be increased by 40% or that the structure goes from 1.87% to 1.1%, which means that workers and young people will soon have a 50% middle wage pension and only 30% final wage pension. We must realise that this rate of calculation is the greatest disaster for the workers and young people. That's what the Prime Minister's running over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u408	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u409	Firstly, I interpret the letter of the 60 economists lightly different than Mr Van Rooijen does. All the input we get is weighed very seriously. So if 60 economists put something on paper, then we are looking very seriously at it. By chance, I spoke to one of those 60 people in Australia who was there for another activity, and then I immediately informed Mr Koolmees that a piece was coming. He said: I have already heard that; we are going to study this seriously, and we are going to include it as a building block in our consideration in the coming weeks, in order to come forward with this letter on 20 November. So that's part of that. However, Mr Van Rooijen is now asking me to introduce some kind of process intervention, a committee, to look very specifically at something that I am not getting out of that article by those 60 economists. I think that's way too detailed. So I don't want to go along with that. Again, the letter of that 60 is in point for our thinking, very serious input. However, I would like to warn you that we should not be too light on the issue of interest rates. Not that Mr Van Rooijen is saying that now, but I have heard that from his party. I still find that risky, because at the moment commitments and savings are about in balance. So it is a risk if you would say that you would artificially lower or raise the arithmetic rate. Again, I repeat that the letter of that 60 is natural input for our thinking. But I do not go so far as to set up a committee now to examine a conclusion drawn by Mr Van Rooijen from that letter, but which I am not taking directly from it. I don't want to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u410	I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen's speech and also with the 60 experts and economists, who argue very clearly why the rate of calculation is far too low. It is quite weedy that if you put the calculation rate to about zero, you will need €90 to meet your obligations. That's a pretty logical causal link. Any freshman economics student can see that. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Does he know what the interest rate is in the countries around us, such as Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg, Finland and the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u411	No. A summary of this has been sent to the Chamber, which is now being whispered to me, so Mr Van Rooijen can check that out. Maybe I can take a look at that overview for the second term. I don't know that by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u412	That is all 3% or higher. They are all based on what Mr Van Rooijen says and what the 60 experts also say, that we have to look at the real return. This is also higher than 3% in the Netherlands. You can pick out one bad year, but pension assets have been attracted enormously since the crisis, thanks to the shares raised by the low interest rate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u413	Exactly. That's what the story is all about. You can see that the shares are partly so high because the interest rate is so low. So watch what you're doing. That's really dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u414	But if these other countries can do it all by 3% or more, which would bring about a very important increase in purchasing power for pensioners, why can't they do it in the Netherlands, according to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u415	According to all the studies, we have the best pension system in the world. Those other countries have very different systems, with very different relationships between the first, second and third pillars, if there are any pillars. You can't just compare that. In the Netherlands, the returns are currently high, but on the other hand, the obligations are equally high. Secondly, the yields are partly so high because interest rates are so low. So what you're doing is what you're doing, and that's the danger, because that way you can't make a balance. But those returns are partly so high because the interest rate is so low. As a result, there are relatively high returns on shares, for example. Yeah, that's true. But the moment they're in balance in size, both of them around 1,400 billion, you're obviously at great risk. Again, the letter of that 60 is taken seriously. We did not put that letter aside immediately. I may be rigid, but Koolmies aren't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u416	Then I suggest we keep the interruptions to ourselves again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u417	One more question on this item on the agenda, which was about systemic risk inventory. That is a value-free system, I say to Mr Koffeman. That system shall operate on the basis of risk indicators that do not give an opinion on a person. No data on disadvantaged neighbourhoods are put into the system. The risk indicators are not based on them either. There's been a court hearing now. The court will rule on 29 January. So I do not want to say anything about it now, because the case is under the courts, but a first reaction to that point. Then I come to the next cup: environment and climate. Mrs Bikker asked what the cabinet wanted to achieve in terms of climate. We have, of course, concluded the climate agreement. All these appointments have been made now. We're going to turn them into policy. If I may mention a few milestones: the introduction of the law banning the production of electricity from coal, the introduction of a CO levy for industry from 2021, the introduction of the updated promotion of electric transport and the first pilots with a district-oriented approach. These are a few examples of what we really need to achieve in the coming months and two years. Of course, we get the annual intervals, also through the PBL, to see how we run. We have the monitoring system and the assurance cycle set out in the Climate Act. With regard to Urgenda, we are in the process of implementing the verdict, in conjunction with the measures contained in the climate agreement. However, I see that there is another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u418	Thank you to the Prime Minister for this little insight. I am particularly concerned that people should also see what we are doing and what this means. It sounds nice, but they're abstract legislative proposals for the citizen at home. It wants to know what is changing, what is better for society now and why we are making this effort. What are we going to see from the cabinet over the next two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u419	I do not have that in detail now, but if Mrs Bikker's point is to ensure that we as a cabinet show that goals are achievable in a way that society can experience, where we can show at the level of action as much as possible what this means in terms of the perspective of action, what changes and how we do it gradually. If I may say so, I would say that at least this is the objective we have with the various measures. That will, of course, remain somewhat more abstract when it comes to a CO levy for industry. But when you talk about stimulating electric transport or the neighborhood-oriented approach, of course, it becomes much more palpable. So that's where it gets easier to make that very visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u420	Thank you for this antwocord. I really want to challenge the Prime Minister to keep that in mind over the coming year. We should not just talk about achieving these fantastic agreements and what legal directives are being laid down. We must also show what the profit is for society and also for nature. Let us be honest about this, because it is also nice when new bird species come back. Then we do not have to be sad about increasing biodiversity. Let us be honest and show what the profit is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u421	Very much so. We say the same thing. On Urgenda, I would like to say that the cabinet is striving to achieve the task that lies ahead. We also continue to look actively at possible additional measures that meet the criteria. Of course, a whole package of measures has been taken. These measures are likely to result in a significant additional CO2 reduction in the short term. Soon the PBL will be reporting exactly where we are. Then I come to the Climate Act, but I see Mr Rosenmöller at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u422	Could I ask the Prime Minister for a performance obligation for 2020 on this point? Because that's the judgment on Urgenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u423	As I have said, the aim is and will continue to be to realize what lies ahead. We now have a package which we believe will bring about significant savings in the short term. We will soon find out exactly where we stand. In addition, all measures also contribute to combating climate change in the short term. Several measures also have a greater impact in the years after 2020 than in 2020, so they also contribute to this. We are also looking at this whole implementation in connection with the Climate Agreement, so the answer to Mr Rosenmöller's question is direct that it is our aim to achieve the task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u424	Mr President, if you will allow me, the aim is good, but since it is a court ruling to be implemented by 2020, I do not want an effort or an effort, but a real obligation to achieve results, so I want one step further from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u425	Yes, I understand that, but I'm sticking to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u426	Then I'm afraid you won't make it any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u427	Then the conclusion is that you are therefore seeking to enforce a judge's ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u428	No, that's your conclusion. No, I didn't say that. No, that's really your conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u429	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u430	Then there's the climate bill. Mr Schalk asked for this, but also others. What we want to achieve, as we know, is a 95% reduction in CO emissions by 2050. That is also what we need to do to stay in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. That is now also the European ambition. There are three other countries that are struggling, but I think we're gonna get out. The upcoming Cabinets were kept to the 49% target by 2030. The Climate Act is not an uncovered cheque; determines the goals, not the policy. All concrete costs are always taken into account in the policy. Is the cabinet prepared to encourage initiatives for sustainable agriculture and to find a solution with farmers in the area of circular agriculture? I would like to underline what the contributors to these questions have already said, namely that the Minister of LNV recently sent her vision of circular agriculture to Parliament, together with various other governments and parties, but certainly also with farmers. Work is being done on the transition to circular agriculture and the LNV vision indicates in several ways that the cabinet supports initiatives for sustainable agriculture, for example, look at the five experimental areas and the pilot projects for diversity. Work is also being carried out on new earning models and innovations, so that in the future our beautiful agricultural sector can continue to earn a good living. By the way, this was a question from the Party for Animals and OSF. Then Mr Knapen of the CDA asked how we could further promote the transition from fossil to sustainable. He says he supports that and that we should at least do what we have agreed with our partners in Europe in treaties. We also need to keep looking around. If you look at Germany, I think that there is now an impressive package of measures. They want a 55% reduction target for Germany by 2030. The Dutch government is aiming at 55% as a European target in 2030, as you know, but Germany has committed itself to a national target of 55% by 2030, including far-reaching choices regarding coal and the use of coal for electricity production. We have very intensive contact with the Germans on this point. We had a joint meeting of our two climate cabins, our ministerial committee and the German Klimakabinett, at the Catshuis on 22 August, which continued in Berlin on 2 October. You can also see that there is a lot of convergence in measures, but not in everything. At one point you see that the Germans do things differently, when it comes to expanding the Emissions Trading System to cars and built environments. The Netherlands looks at this differently, so there are also differences, but on many points we work very intensively with the Germans. And it has to be, because that filth doesn't stop in the air, because you can't build a wall there, so you have to do it together with the whole European space. In the case of coal-fired power stations, they are already in the process of phasing out a large part of the coal-fired power stations and are going to try to do the total phasing-out in 2035. They're going to make that final decision in 2032. In that sense, if you put it all side by side, there is not much difference between what the Netherlands and Germany do with the coal plants. The transition to a sustainable business requires government direction and coordination, said Mr Rosenmöller, and I agree with that. We have also tried to do this with the Climate Agreement, by involving everyone, in a way that is feasible and affordable and also possible for the household wallet, in which industry also makes a major contribution. With regard to nitrogen, we are at the heart of the problem, a very complex issue. It's not like you can fix this with a magic wand. I also had one of the employers on the phone yesterday. I said, you know, we can decide tomorrow to release all those construction projects, but when the judge shuts them down a day later, you still have nothing, so you really have to take it one step at a time. Then we look at thresholds, at what we can do sector-specificly, at what we can do in the direction of the discussions in the provinces on concrete projects, and at all the source measures that are necessary. The aim is to make sure that the damage is minimal and we restore the balance between nature on the one hand and the need to restart the construction on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u431	Mr. Kox, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u432	What, according to the Prime Minister, has actually gone wrong that we are in so much trouble now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u433	Well, there's been a court ruling that says that the PAS, so that programmatic approach, cannot, because apparently too little has actually been realized and too much has been parked away in the future. In this way, I shall briefly interpret the ruling of the Council of State at the end of May. That's what we have to relate to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u434	So we weren't prepared for that at all? Did that come like a thunderbolt in the clear sky? If so, does that lead to any assessment on the part of the government as to how something like this, which was apparently one of the possibilities, was totally surprising?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u435	Last November, I thought, another European statement was made that said: what you can do on your own, but you have to look very closely at the type of measures, so we had no indication that it would be so drastic, that is true. By the way, if Mr Kox asks if we are going to evaluate that, my experience is that we always evaluate everything in this country, so I assume this too, but I cannot see it now. We are mainly in the process of extinguishing the fire and not yet with the question of where the fire came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u436	Mr. Kox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u437	The issue was not undisputed. I remember the debate we had in this Chamber. A majority voted in favour, but comments were made. Comments were also made in other places. I find it so difficult to imagine that a government does not take into account that it can also go wrong. And if that's the case, then we have to learn something from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u438	I'll give you the previous answer. Once again, there was a statement by Europe from October to November last year, I say by heart, in which it was not said: it could not, but it could: take care of the justification and so on, so we have always assumed that this could be done. But the ruling of the Council of State is firm and you have to stop your building projects from getting started that are stuck a day later, so we really need to fix it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u439	I would ask the Prime Minister to take a step back after all. We're in a huge crisis. And then I keep hearing the Prime Minister say: yes, there was suddenly a court ruling, a ruling from the Council of State here and a ruling from the Council of State there. Where does he see the essence of the problem? Where exactly did it go wrong? Isn't it also a big problem that there are all kinds of judicial issues at the moment with far-reaching political consequences, where a few people's judicial colleges make judgments about cases that you say are typically political issues? Isn't there something fundamentally wrong with the whole system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u440	What the judge is doing is checking whether the government is doing what it intends to do. But Mr Cliteur is so much more expert on this point that I will stop replying immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u441	Thank you for the compliment, Prime Minister, but I would still like to insist. I do think that judgments should be respected when they are made, but you can see that we are in a situation where politics has to go after judgments all the time, including relatively political trials. Then perhaps we are dealing with a system error that we should consider in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u442	I am hesitating, because we're in the middle of a fire we're trying to put out. That is why I do not want to go into what has gone wrong here in the past. We have done this PAS with broad political support. Again, in my mind, in October or November we thought the direction was good, given the justification. Now we have the ruling of the Council of State. The government thinks it has made a certain commitment to society, of which the judge says: you do not live up to it. I don't know if that's a judge's mistake in advance. You're gonna have to look at that on a case-by-case basis. Politics must be autonomous. What you can always do is change the law again. But when it comes to nitrogen, you have to deal with the fact that we have European agreements. And frankly, the picture is that the Netherlands is one of the dirtiest countries in Europe in terms of nitrogen emissions. It is not that we now have a great track record here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u443	I welcome the Prime Minister's recognition that the Netherlands is one of the dirtiest countries in terms of nitrogen emissions. When the PAS was dealt with in the House of Representatives, my party colleague Esther Ouwehand asked: what is going to happen at the time the judge finds that is now going to happen? Then Ger Koopmans said in the Lower House: well, then our entrepreneurs have benefited from it for five years and so have we all with the economy. So it wasn't unexpected. It's like there's suddenly an unforeseen verdict from the Council of State. And the Prime Minister says there will be an evaluation, because everything is being evaluated in this country. De Volkskrant put in a major reconstruction yesterday, which the Minister for Agriculture simply said: that is not true. It was about the Minister of Agriculture and how it came about. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he intends to undertake that there will be a reconstruction with the government's vision on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u444	No, I'm not gonna promise that. We're just gonna put out the fire. I said, this country is evaluating everything, so I'm sure this is also the case. The Minister for Agriculture responded to yesterday's article in the Volkskrant on what would have happened in April 2018. She said that was not the case. With regard to the debate that Mr Koffeman is referring to between Members of Parliament, it is not for me to comment on this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u445	I understand you don't want that. Maybe you weren't even there. But it is true that the fire you are talking about is planned. That fire is hard to put out right now. It is therefore very good to learn from this. That's not a question of: we'll see, we'll evaluate it again. I would like the Prime Minister's undertaking that there will be an evaluation showing how it has come to this and what lessons we will learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u446	No, the promise is we're gonna put out the fire first. Then we'll take a closer look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u447	I have a question following Mr Koffeman's question on reconstruction in the Volkskrant. I also mentioned it in my earlier speech. It referred to the Ministry of Agriculture plus 14 other organisations which, according to the Volkskrant, were involved in "this administrative monstrosity." Can the Prime Minister tell us which 14 organizations were involved in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u448	No. Yesterday, the Minister for Agriculture responded in detail to that article, so I refer to that. Then Mr Koffeman asked another question about the reduction in livestock. We have already said: no taboos when it comes to addressing the problem of nitrogen. All sectors will have to contribute: car, sailing, flying, agriculture. But we have also said that farmers who want to go through must be able to go through. With regard to farmers who want to stop near a nature reserve, we can see if we can come to a deal with each other. A farmer may be asked to move. We can now see that there are a number of reforms under a subsidy scheme, for example in pig farming, in order to reduce the number of pigs. This has recently been authorised by the European Commission. This is an irrevocable end to pig-farming sites which cause odour nuisance in livestock-tight areas. This, of course, also contributes to reducing the problem of nitrogen. So you will probably see in the coming period that the livestock is not growing, but rather shrinking, although this is not a policy objective. The goal is to control the nitrogen problem. The goal is not a halving or anything. Again, we need a strong agricultural sector in the Netherlands. Farmers who want to go on must be able to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u449	I understand the Prime Minister's position. The point is that we are dealing with a kind of pig cycle, but different from the proverbial pig cycle. In 2001, Minister Brinkhorst said: we are going to make a warm recovery of pig farming and then we have solved the problem. But the problem wasn't solved. The problem keeps coming back. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to provide a policy instrument to reduce the number of animals, because we are slaughtering 650 million animals and because we are trying to feed 100 million consumers in 140 countries with animal proteins, which cannot be on a stamp like the Netherlands. The policy instrument I have asked for is different from: we are going to try to reduce nitrogen emissions. Because that can also be done via air scrubbers in megastals. But that doesn't help the animals, and that doesn't help all the policy instruments that the Netherlands needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u450	No, we're not prepared to do that. There are no such intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u451	May I remind the Prime Minister of his position as chairman of the VVD group in 2009 when he said, "I hate the bio-industry, pig stacking and the lack of animal welfare that results from it. You can always knock on my door for that"? What exactly did you mean by "knocking"? Is that a matter of knocking, but I'm not gonna open the door anyway? Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u452	If you knock, I always answer the door. That's the deal, and you know it. Then the coffee's ready. But if you were to knock on the door in this case, and you are actually knocking on the door now, then my answer to Mr Koffeman would be that I object if that were to happen, but fortunately we have good supervision of livestock farms that do not carry animal welfare as an important element in the balance sheet. I think that is very important for a civilised country. At the same time, I have no objection to large livestock farming in the Netherlands. In fact, that is part of a strong agricultural sector that represents 9% of our economy, in its entirety, with all its chain partners, with a lot of jobs, and which is also important for landscape management in the Netherlands. Unlike Mr Koffeman, my aim is not to reduce livestock. My goal is to solve the nitrogen problem. Agriculture will also have to make a contribution to this, but in a way that farmers who want to go through will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u453	Mr. Koffeman, the last one at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u454	The Prime Minister should know, as it has been indicated by a number of advisory bodies, that livestock farming costs more than social costs. In this sense, livestock farming does not contribute at all. So it would be nice if the Prime Minister wanted to reconsider whether we could and would like 650 million animals in a country with 17 million inhabitants. When he says that this makes a substantial contribution to the landscape, I agree with him, but in the reverse: it makes a substantial contribution to the decline of nature. All the government's advisory bodies say that. Why does the Prime Minister insist against better knowing that it makes a substantial positive contribution to the landscape?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u455	I have the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan to visit tomorrow. The only real topic on the agenda is how the Netherlands can help, for example through our Agricultural University in Wageningen, with further strengthening of the agricultural sector in Kazakhstan. Wherever I go in the world, the Netherlands is an example. In this country itself, we will always have to find the balance between all the interests we have here: our nature, our economy, the people, the animals, etc. And that's gotta be civilized. My ruling on the bio-industrie in 2009 was that I do not want to live in a country that deals with animals in a non-civilised way. Fortunately, there has been a lot of improvement over the past ten or fifteen years, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u456	Mr. Koffeman, do you have a short word? You've had a lot of interruptions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u457	Of such a country, the prime minister is the prime minister. There are 2.7 billion violations of the law in this country in the bio-industry. There are 300 problem farmers whose NVWA says they systematically abuse their animals. They sit with their hands in their hair and can't help it. Perhaps you'd like to take another look at that if you say you think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u458	I cannot go into specific cases at the moment. But of course it is impossible for us to accept that farmers do not comply with the law. The vast majority of them comply with the law. One of the most important manifestations of the demonstration in The Hague was also "Society see us! We are making a very big contribution to this country!" I would like to repeat this evening that we also see that they are making this contribution, that they are important to our economy and our capacity for innovation and that we are proud to have such a strong agricultural sector in the Netherlands. The asbestos roofs. We're gonna go from... That's the beauty of such a debate. That's the same cup, about climate and nature. There was a question from Mrs Jorritsma. A note has also been sent to this Chamber and the House of Representatives by the Secretary of State of IenW. At the heart of the matter is the need for a cooperation agreement before the end of the year. The creation of a fund from which loans can be granted is taken into account under the condition of sufficient participation by other governments and a closing business case. So this is very Dutch. Then there's the landlord's tax. "The grip in the greenhouse of the housing corporations" was called by Mr Gerbrandy. It has been agreed at the time of its introduction that there will be an increasing yield in the period 2013-2017. After that, there would be a constant rate. The 2016 review of the levies showed that the levy was to be levied by the sector and that there was still room to invest. That is, of course, very important. The rate has been reduced in recent years. A new tax reduction for the sustainability of housing has been introduced. Mr Gerbrandy also referred to this, but said that in his view it is not enough. But it's true that we do. So you're talking about space for new construction. A total of about 1 billion will be available over the next ten years, in addition to the additional housing impulse of 1 billion. The financial indicators of the sector show that the sector will have sufficient lending capacity to invest extra in the coming years. This is on top of the more than EUR 43 billion of planned plans that are in the books up to 2023. This is also reflected in the picture of the new indicative spending area housing corporations, the IBW, from 2019. This shows that investment capacity increased by 12.6 billion euros compared to 2018. I therefore advise against the motion that is being tabled. Moreover, it is not covered; that is, of course, also a serious matter. I don't think we're gonna agree on this point tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u459	That of the cover of this story I expected a little bit. I thought there was over 3.5 billion space left on the rich budget. I have called this "a hold in the greenhouse," because I think that people with a narrow scholarship, who usually live in social housing, should not have to pay for the shortage that existed in 2013. You say there's still room for investment. I say there can be much more investment if that landlord tax goes back. We do not agree on that. We'll see what this room thinks later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u460	That's what we're gonna wait and see. Once again, it is true, of course, that Mr Gerbrandy is right in saying that there is more investment capacity if you do not have him. But at least there is sufficient capacity. I have two answers to this point in relation to Mrs Vos. The cabinet cannot now make a commitment on the development of the levy, as it also depends on the development of the base. As I said, we are trying to implement tax reductions as we are implementing them at the moment, for example for the sake of sustainability. I just called that. An evaluation of the landlord's tax is also under way, which will be completed at the beginning of 2020. Then we'll look again at future changes. With regard to the income standard, I can report that the cabinet raises the income limit in the social housing sector for multi-person households to €42.000 and lowers it slightly to €35,000 for single-person households. This means that the people who are currently difficult to find an affordable rental house on the market, the low middle-income families, are eligible for a social housing corporation. At the same time, the chances of success for people with a lower income for a social housing are prevented from being put under pressure, as the potential target group remains broadly the same. This also fits in with the broader package of rental measures as announced by the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. That was the issue of environment and climate issues. I will now come to the chapter on security, if you will allow me. I'm gonna make room on this little cathedral. Several questions have been asked about safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u461	That's cup number?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u462	This is number five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u463	Ah, we're almost halfway there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u464	You wanted to go faster, didn't you? There's a total of nine. Then we're halfway there. You're right. Yes, a professor as chairman... Good. There have been a lot of discussions on legal aid. Perhaps I can say briefly, also in view of the time, that we want to speed up the reform of the system, as agreed in the coalition agreement. That is precisely what is so important because of the need for better compensation. The combination of measures taken creates room for better remuneration for lawyers working in the system. That transformation is now coming on steam, and in my opinion even comes on steam well. But a system review of this size is complex and requires care. Of course, we are also talking about vulnerable people, so this care is very important. During the General Political Reviews in the Lower House, the Jetten/Segers motion was adopted, from the parties D66 and the Christian Union on the other side of the Binnenhof, which asks to show where the need is highest. That is also what we are going to do within the budgetary framework. The coalition has agreed that the resources remaining due to a decline in additions will remain available for investment in the development of the new system. Then about the undermining. There was, of course, reference to the terrible events on the first day of the General Reviews. Apart from this terrible event and this murder, the fight against undermining is of great importance to this cabinet. Roll up, take it away and prevent it is the motto of the intensification on which Fred Grapperhaus, the minister of JenV, sent a piece to the House of Representatives on 18 October. I am not going to summarize the whole letter, but basically there is a very coherent package, looking at what we can do nationally, how we can map the criminal flows of money and what we can do to make society resilient to the poison of criminal money, threats, intimidation and liquidations. Of course, this is linked to the plan for dealing with money laundering, which had previously been sent to the House of Representatives, with the various measures in this area, so that this is also addressed. Structural and occasional funding is available for this. 100 million on occasion and 4 million on a structural basis to deal with organised undermining crime. As I said, we are looking, as promised to the House of Representatives, to see if there is room for one-off additional funding, in conjunction with the priority in the field of education. I should also like to mention the issue of nitrogen with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u465	In the light of the search for the Navy Note, I have asked the Prime Minister to reflect on whether it is too short a blow if money would occasionally become available, where this undermining is so comprehensive and visible in so many places. We can talk about Amsterdam, and that has often happened here today, but Brabant also has his share. We can't make it with an occasional contribution, it's my big fear. Can the Prime Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u466	The political commitment to the General Reviews in the Lower House was occasional. The Autumn note does not lend itself to structural matters either. What we need to look closely together is what can now be done occasionally and what is further needed, also in the light of the budget that we need to draw up for 2021. So I can't comment on that now. But the political agreement is that we are now at first looking at a kick-start of such a program along an occasional route. I am not saying that what Mrs Bikker says is not true. But it's in the decision-making process at a different time. I can't make any promises about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u467	I'm glad what I'm saying is true; otherwise I wouldn't have said it. But there is also, if we do that kick-start in the fine words of the Prime Minister that I like to see what the sequel is. If the kickstart is delivered, then also let me know how the fuel is going to get into the engine from now on. I understand that you cannot do that with figures and structural commitments at the moment, but you can see what the next steps are, including in financial policy. Then it is not structural, but we do have insight into what it might become structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u468	That transcends my pay grade for tonight. I understand what Mrs Bikker is saying, but that seems to me to be part of the debate on this letter. I try in all honesty to meet the expectations. At least we are talking about occasional money and not structural money, which does not make it impossible to make choices in the budget again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u469	That letter is in front of the House of Representatives. It is possible that we will talk about this in the Justice budget, but that is not yet certain. In this Chamber, it is not necessarily customary for us to deal with budgets. That is precisely why I am making this point with emphasis. I hope that the Prime Minister has understood me very well and that we do not need a policy debate or anything like that on this point, but that we provide structuralally what society needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u470	The ambition of this minister and the cabinet is to ensure, regardless of the structural or occasional flow of money, that we, as a society and cabinet, address this issue in a structural way. But it is not open to me to give structural money tonight. But when Mrs. Bikker says "listen, you have to do everything you can to keep it from running in the gravel bin after a kickstart," we naturally agree on that. That's not what you want, because then it didn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u471	May I invite the Prime Minister to comment on what I said about this cultural problem this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u472	I'm just getting ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u473	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u474	The problem of tolerance and lack of enforcement: question 15 by Mr Cliteur. But Mr Knapen also referred to this issue. Several mayors, I can say to Mr Cliteur and Mr Knapen, have in recent years questioned the sustainability of the cannabis tolerance policy. That's why we're doing an experiment to see if legalized deliveries to coffee shops are possible, so no longer the dwarfs, the leprechauns. That is also what was agreed in the coalition agreement. A legislative proposal will be discussed in the Chamber next week. It is quite clear: for drugs other than cannabis, there is no question of a tolerance policy. They won't be tolerated. However, the normalization of drug use is a matter of great concern to the cabinet. The Minister of Justice and Security recently emphasised this in his letter on the broad offensive against undermining organised crime. On this point, the Secretary of State of the United States also separated a drug prevention letter to the Chamber and informed the Chamber of how we intend to prevent the normalization of drug use. Five new measures have been announced, including a legislative amendment whereby we can ban at once many dangerous new psychoactive substances, designer drugs. The Minister of Justice and Security will work with the Secretary of State of VWS to see if additional efforts are needed. That at that point. Then we have been asked: can a broad independent committee be set up to look in the longer term at funding for organisations involved in the rule of law? In response to this, we are currently seeing substantial and multiannual investments in the police force. Wherever we can, we adapt the funding system to provide more stability. Think, for example, of the new system of financing justice. Ultimately, this is about good and consistent decision-making, as far as possible on the basis of forecasting models. A broad, independent committee does not seem to me to have any added value at this time, but this is a matter that we will have to keep each other focused in the debate. Then there is the question of force in the police. There is considerable investment in the police: expansion of the operational formation by more than 1,100 FTEs. Moreover, recruitment is a major challenge because of the tight labour market, but fortunately the police seem to be able to do so so so far. At the same time, many operational people will retire from the police force in the near future and people will need to be replaced. At the same time, the number of operational staff will also increase, so there is certainly a temporary risk of pressure on employability. I don't want to trivialize that. Eventually, in the Netherlands, there will always be a lot of demand for the use of police. We are one of the safest countries in the world. The lesson is that demand will always be greater than the supply you can make. We are in the process of expanding the police, and of course we would like to do so even faster. Then there's the question of female circumcision. This is, of course, a criminal offence in the Netherlands. It is reprehensible, but unfortunately the phenomenon also takes place in the Netherlands. As soon as there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have the opportunity to use means of investigation. It is then up to the Public Prosecutor to determine whether it is appropriate to proceed to prosecution. It is true that in recent years an integrated approach to girls' circumcisions has been put in place. Then on the point of jihadist terrorism. It is clear that its approach is of the utmost importance for this cabinet and for society as a whole. I often say: we cannot guarantee that nothing ever goes wrong, but we can guarantee that we will do everything we can to prevent it. The approach is broad: enforcement, prosecution, administrative approach, prevention, national and international. Unfortunately, we have recently had to see the commitment in practice. I refer to the incident at Amsterdam Centraal and the attack in Utrecht. Fortunately, all the terrible facts have been extremely effective, attackers have been caught quickly and suspects are also prosecuted and actually convicted for crimes for terrorist purposes. On this point, I can say that the Global Compact for Migration is precisely aimed at strengthening international cooperation and not at hindering it, but at improving international cooperation. With regard to Syria and the situation there, I would like to point out that, as described in the letter of 15 October 2019 to the House of Representatives, we are generally very concerned about the consequences of the Turkish operation in Northern Syria. This concerns, among other things, the security of detention camps and thus the increased risk of escapes by extravagants and others. For Salafistic education, as soon as there is a suspicion of a criminal offence, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have the opportunity to use means of investigation. It is then up to the D.A. to determine whether it is appropriate to proceed to prosecution in a specific case. Everyone, from the publisher of school books to the educational institution to every provider of extracurricular activities, has to comply with the law. We talked about legal aid. That answers the questions about safety. I come to the chapter on international and defence, while my esteemed colleague from Agriculture, whom I have just praised for her fantastic work, has messed up my whole pile. I say to Mr Knapen: yes, in a rapidly changing world, with unpredictability from America and the bizarre fact of Brexit "I hate it from every angle," I have said a few times on British television, it is important that an open economy such as the Dutch, a small country with high prosperity, remains embedded in strong international structures, such as NATO and the European Union. But we also need to ensure that these structures continue to function properly: the reform of the EU, the reform of the UN, the reform of the WTO. Indeed, I always choose, dancing as much as possible with those who send others on the dance floor, to see if you can get the energy in the right direction. If there is major criticism from partners, such as America, of the functioning of these multilateral organisations, then we need to see how we can further strengthen those multilateral organisations with them. I also agree with Mr Knapen that the embedding in our immediate surroundings is very important. The energy we invest in relations with France, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, but also England, if it were from the European Union, remains of the utmost importance. Within Europe, after 400 years of foreign policy, aimed at preventing the British, the French and the Germans from agreeing too quickly, we will now have to pursue a different foreign policy. Europe will become more etatistic, less free trade and more internationally oriented, with Britain leaving. That is why the Netherlands invests in the relationship with a number of countries in Europe, in the Scandinavian and Baltic regions, but also with Slovenia, Ireland, Austria and through the Benelux countries, to ensure that the European Union's international and trade-oriented perspective remains present. Finally, it is very important that the European Union has a projection on the world stage, which the EU can act with authority. You can see that this is complicated, because countries such as France and Germany always attach great importance to their own international policies. That is all right, but that sometimes makes it difficult for Europe to become the world's largest trading bloc, and we have a huge dominant position if we want to use that dominant position and do so sub-optimally, to put it mildly. After all, we in Europe are dealing with very large Member States, which are pursuing their own policies. Finally, NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy, including Article 5, including our contribution. I can endorse Mr Knapen's whole speech, but in the words I have chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u475	Mr. Otten was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u476	Mr. Knapen can go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u477	Yeah, maybe because I was reacting to Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u478	Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u479	Yeah, for a second. It is a sort of automation: NATO is crucial as a cornerstone. That's something we've been saying to each other a number of times every year since 1949. For the concrete threats of this part of the world, of the Netherlands, of our environment, you don't really think about NATO so quickly anymore. For example, the risk of large flows of refugees from the Middle East or Africa, and the risk of major terrorist threats from the same region, is in fact very little for NATO and the United States. I understand that from an American perspective. We are now dependent on Erdogan and Putin, with a country with a GDP the size of Spain. That's what we're gonna let happen. We will have to do something about this with partners other than the United States in order to defend our interests and values. Do you agree, or do you say: no, NATO is the beginning and end of our lives in an international world?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u480	NATO is the most powerful military alliance in world history. NATO's umbrella is of paramount importance and America has a crucial contribution, not only from its historical interest, through World War II, but also from a forward defense argument for America itself, to prevent this part of the world from coming under Russian influence. But the answer is and-and, because Mr Knapen outlines developments that I see as well, developments where NATO is not automatically the first approach route to solve a problem. I also understood his plea for a strong embedding in immediate neighbouring countries within Europe. In my speech in Zurich in February and recently in Australia, I tried to draw attention to the importance that Europe is projecting on the world stage, with the authority and effectiveness that this entails, which is not possible at the moment. We do not use our foreign political instruments enough over a broad front. As a result, we do not play a sufficient role in the Middle East. It is true that Russia has the Benelux economy combined with the three Benelux countries. Look at all the damage it can do with that little bit of money. That means that we have to do the other things as well as NATO. But given Russia's enormous military power, also in relation to Europe, NATO remains very important. For me, it's en-and. You have to do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u481	I have a question about the EU. I just heard the Prime Minister about the EU. If we can believe the messages, the Dutch EU contribution will go up by many billions. Can the Prime Minister confirm that? Exactly how many billion would it be, and by when do we have to pay it, according to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u482	Those messages don't add up. This would happen if a proposal from the European Commission were accepted. The Dutch contribution would increase considerably, but the Netherlands is opposed to the European Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u483	The Netherlands is already one of the largest net contributors to the EU per capita.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u484	I always say the "net-toast" payer is us. But we're gonna get a lot out of it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u485	So you are telling us that you are going to make a very strong effort to stop this increase for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u486	It is a Commission proposal, but it must all be unanimous, and we are therefore working together with a group of countries, the 'frugal' countries, the economical countries: the Danes, the Austrians, the Swedes, the Germans, the Dutch. I see Mr Knapen looking tormented, because this brings back memories of the previous discussion on the seven-year budget, which he and I have been working on, in a different role. It's back now. And again, of course, the Commission is trying to say, just as it did then, that away with these discounts, it is trying to spend more money. This is going to be an unparalleled debate in Europe. That really gets very complicated, but it has to be unanimous and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u487	Mr Otten, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u488	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Prime Minister saying that this must be done unanimously. He's against it. Can I conclude from this that he is going to veto this on behalf of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u489	I think that is another weak statement that I do not understand, because then we are again in the veto. I believe that we should try to reach a consensus that is acceptable to the Netherlands. That will be the rejection of the Commission's proposal. We are in the club that says: let the budget rise by 1% of national income. Of course, he's just going up with the bnp. That's the spirit. It's linked to the BP. That is also provided in our books. But the Commission now wants to increase more than 1%. The Commission also wants to get rid of the discounts. We don't want either of them. We also want to reform. There needs to be more money for innovation and more money for infrastructure projects, which will strengthen Europe's projection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u490	Mr Otten, the fourth and final interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u491	Are you going to veto it or not veto it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u492	Yes, but that gives the impression again as if we are on our own. We have five countries, so we don't have to veto. We work with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u493	Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u494	I'm not gonna veto if I don't have to, no. I'm trying to get out in a way we want. But I always find the veto to be such a weak end. Then you've already thrown the head in the lap and said, "We can't do it." Let us rely on the strength of our arguments for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u495	I wanted to return to what the Prime Minister said about NATO, including Turkey. Turkey's military invasion in Syria has rightly and rightly condemned the Dutch Government. But when I hear the Prime Minister say that NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy, including Article 5, I have a clear question for the Prime Minister. What would that have meant if Turkey's invasion of Syria had led to a military response from Syria to Turkey? Should Article 5 have been applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u496	You don't know that. That's a like-dan question. That depends on so many circumstances. Article 5 is more than... Here it is also an attack caused by Turkey. Yeah, you can't just answer that. This is really a like-dan question I can't answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u497	But perhaps you should have answered him, because if it had happened, NATO should have made a decision. Then you cannot say: that depends on everything. You said, including Article 5. Article 5 was the cornerstone:...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u498	This is so theoretical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u499	...an attack on one is an attack on all. This is where we have been dealing for the first time, I think, with a clear violation of international law by a Member State. Should Article 5 have been applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u500	Yeah, but you really can't answer that. First of all, it is highly unlikely that Syria would have been able to invade Turkey with its military power. That seems extremely theoretical to me. So that's not happening. So the Russians should be involved. Then we're in all kinds of scenarios that you really can't say in a general sense: whether or not we're in Article 5. You just can't answer that, because there's a whole history, like it is. So that's impossible to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u501	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u502	Finally, Mr President. With the nitrogen, the government was surprised, but we couldn't be surprised here. I find it remarkable that the Prime Minister says 'you can't say anything about that', because I know that colleagues of his in Europe and in NATO have said something about it, namely that according to them Article 5 would not have been applicable in this case. We cannot think about this when the case arises, so that seems to me to be part of the safety strategy of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u503	Yes, but it is also an interest not to speculate openly on Article 5. I do not think that is in Dutch interest. So it's very theoretical. But I also think it is risky for Article 5, in general terms, to go and have a look at it together in the First Chamber on Tuesday evening, in a theoretical case, while the text of Article 5 may be of vital importance for the Netherlands in certain situations. So let's not get into this speculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u504	Mr. Kox, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u505	I do object, however, to the Prime Minister's saying that we should now talk about Article 5 at a quarter to ten. The Prime Minister brought it in. He said: NATO is the cornerstone, including Article 5. You didn't say that for nothing. The case occurred with Turkey, it could occur, we were at the brink of something very annoying. If the Prime Minister says "we haven't thought about it, because we think it's theoretical," I think it's very lean. I hope that our Minister for Defence and our Minister for Foreign Affairs have thought a little further on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u506	I'm not saying we don't think. What I'm saying is that you can't just speculate about it, because it affects an essential importance for the Netherlands. This is one of the parts of our post-war... Then you really talk about a cornerstone. The self-evidentness of the article on a possible Russian attack on this part of Europe and the self-evidentness of American aid in that case have contributed significantly to stability in this part of the world. That is why you are asking the impossible if you are asking to speculate about it in public now. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of sexual rights and health care for women. Can the rights of unborn people also be defended, early on, Mr Schalk? The Dutch international policy on sexual and reproductive health and rights, in which freedom of choice and women's rights are of course at the heart, I should like to stress that.. is in line with national policy in this area. This is also exhorted by Blok and Kaag, the two rulers. These include access to contraception, sexual education, mother and child care and access to safe abortion in cases where a pregnant woman or an unintentional pregnant woman considers herself to be in an emergency situation. The aim of Dutch abortion policy is to balance two values: the right of women to help with unwanted pregnancy and the protection of unborn life. The Netherlands rejects gender selection from the perspective of women's rights and gender equality. With regard to the reports on Taghi, I can only say that there is a criminal investigation into this issue and that speculation is not going to help this case. I won't. I thought that Mr Grapperhaus also answered questions about this in the House of Representatives this afternoon along this line. This is now being discussed in places where it is not possible to speculate about it now in a parliamentary debate. As Pakistan openly burns the Dutch flag, Pakistan should at least be accountable, Mr Cliteur asked. Since August 2018, as far as we know, there have been no protests against the Netherlands in Pakistan, including this flag burning. Discussions were held in August and September 2018 by the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the protests in Pakistan and the concerns of the Dutch cabinet about the threat to the Netherlands. Mr Blok has done so with his Pakistani colleague. He transferred those concerns back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u507	The Prime Minister went through his answers very quickly that had to do with abortion. I had asked if Minister Blok or Minister Kaag could call for international attention to particular situations surrounding abortion. I mentioned the gendercide and Canada, where you can have abortions for up to nine months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u508	As I said, we reject gender selection, precisely from the point of view of women's rights and gender equality. The policy as we promote it internationally is in line with national policy. Our international policy on this issue is fully in line with national policies, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, freedom of choice and women's rights. That would be my answer to that question. I cannot now deal with specific cases such as Canada, India and China. He mentioned a few concrete cases. I cannot address all these countries here in a plenary debate. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u509	I understand very well that the Prime Minister cannot address these countries. I mentioned them as examples. The Prime Minister's response to the gender cide is clear. I assume that means that this will be discussed at international level, for example at the United Nations. I'd love to hear that back. With regard to the example of Canada, there is a different policy than here in the Netherlands, because there you can just abort up to nine months. That's just a matter between doctor and woman. That is a special situation, I know that, but when we talk about all kinds of rights and take Dutch policy as a starting point, these are two sharp examples of something that could be raised. It would seem particularly good if we were to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u510	I cannot go into countries in a plenary debate. I can't do that. All I can do is outline what our policies are and what we're focusing on. Of course, Blok and Kaag carry out this policy in all relevant bodies. If that's the question: absolutely. I hear Mr Schalk's concerns about these countries very well. I take it seriously too, but I cannot now respond to it on a country-by-country basis. That would not be accepted in international diplomatic relations either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u511	May I continue on that matter of Pakistan? The Prime Minister pointed out that the Dutch flag may not have recently been burned in Pakistan, but Junaid I. is currently on trial. He's being sued for threatening Geert Wilders. He has already indicated in several sessions before that that he assumes that he is a national hero in Pakistan. There are also many figures, religious and more secular figures in Pakistan, including a sportsman, who offer money to send murderers on the road. One's on trial today. Then the least you could do is contact the ambassador of Pakistan to ask what that really is and: can you not even stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u512	Surely I don't have to explain to Mr Cliteur that I can't comment on an ongoing trial? It's on all the websites today. Mr Cliteur referred to an ongoing trial. I can't. More generally, as far as Pakistan is concerned, there has been good contact between the two foreign ministers. There the Dutch concerns about the threat have been transferred to the Netherlands. If it is necessary again in the future, we will do so, but I cannot go into this specific matter now, nor can I say what steps the Netherlands is taking. That's gonna affect an ongoing trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u513	That argument is being put forward on this issue all the time. We do not ask the Prime Minister to give a ruling on any punishment or that sort of thing. We are talking about prosecution policy. The prosecution policy is the ultimate responsibility of the Minister of Justice and thus of the Cabinet. Those are political decisions. The Public Prosecutor may or may not prosecute. That's just a political issue. You can't say that's under the judge now. So we are not asking a politician to take a judge, but we are asking for a ruling on the desirability of certain prosecutions. That seems perfectly possible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u514	I do not suppose that Mr Cliteur here seriously expects the Dutch cabinet to intervene with the public prosecutor in concrete cases? That's very unusual. If what the D.A. does doesn't like, then we as legislators have to look at the law. There's no reason for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u515	Mr. Cliteur, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u516	There can just be a lead to prosecution. That possibility is just legal. In the end, the Minister of Justice is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u517	It is, after all, exceptional that this happens. I believe that this happened 15 years ago for the last time. That's not something we do every day. Then there is the question of Mr Schalk's 2% standard. We are in the process of increasing defence expenditure step by step. I know Mr Schalk doesn't think it's going fast enough. Maybe we agree on that, but that's more personal. We're just really dealing with a problem here. Even if you had more support for spending more money on Defense, you'd be at the pace of buying material and with the absorption capacity of the armed forces to bring people in. There really are limits to that too. It's not just that if you decide to spend another few billion, you can spend that money right away. It appears to be rather complicated to get the existing increases spent. They are very substantial, because I am talking about the structural investments of 1.5 billion, with an occasional amount of 160 million on the basis of the Spring Note. But the 2014 Van der Staaij motion remains our anchor on this point. It provides that, as part of the integrated decision-making process, we will always consider whether, naturally in balance with other social issues, as stated in the Defence Paper, we can take steps to increase further to that 2%. We've already made great strides. This is what we will try to do in the near future. That will undoubtedly be another big part of the next cabinet formation, I expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u518	I've noticed that commitment. I'm also glad there's always money coming in. 2024 has been mentioned. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether it is at level in 2024 or whether we want to move towards the level in 2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u519	I can only make a party political statement about this as a VVD, but that's not how I stand here. This cabinet takes these steps in line with the Welsh Pledge and the motion Van der Staaij, both from 2014. That's how we take the steps. I can't go any further than it's been decided. The aim is to continue to look in line with the Van der Staaij motion and to take account of other policy priorities, whether it is possible to add to the Defence budget during this cabinet period as well. This possibility is therefore open, depending on the development of public finances and further prioritisation. But I expect this will not be enough to reach 2% in 2021. Furthermore, the Welsh Pledge also calls for a direction towards 2%. So it's not literally 2%, it's moving to 2%. I expect that this will really be a major discussion point in the next cabinet formation. It's still good for 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u520	It's a years' journey, deployed in 2014. A Climate Act has recently been dealt with here, putting a percentage in the law. I almost wondered if it was not wise to put something in the law about that 2%, so that we fly it in the same way. Then they don't turn out to be uncovered cheques, and then we're gonna stick to a next cabinet too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u521	The Climate Act mentions not amounts, but a target for CO emissions in 2030 and 2050. The Climate Act does not deal with measures and costs. This would, of course, be a direct claim to the state budget. Then there is the plea that I have also heard, I believe from Mr Kox, to consider whether Turkey should be suspended from NATO because of the situation in Northern Syria. I agree that we condemn the raid. Blok also managed to get that conviction and a de facto arms embargo to Turkey, when I thought it would not work on Monday morning, when I spoke to him just before the Foreign Affairs Council. I think that a suspension of Turkey from NATO is extremely unwise, with all the reasons that go with it. This would remove a vital pillar under NATO and one of the most important partners in the security and defence of that eastern flank. So that's really not something we should do. So yes, address and tackle hard, but we really need Turkey in NATO for our security. That's the point of international defense. Now we come to the national administration. In this context, it discussed, among other things, the major issues relating to implementation. What are we doing about the policy and implementation capacity? Mr Rosenmöller and others referred to this, but especially Mr Rosenmöller. The Throne speech also goes into this of course and stresses the importance of this, because this is the place where people in the country meet the government. There are no quick solutions to the problems of implementation, I say here. We are particularly committed to this in the Cabinet so that improvements can be made quickly in the places where it is most urgent. That is broad in the government and, by the way, does not depend on the people in the execution, absolutely not. If there are problems in implementation, my perception is that this is almost always the case because we, the politicians, have made it too complex. It's not the quality of the people who work there. Whether it's the Tax Office, DUO, the NVWA or the CBR, good people work. I'd like to say that again. There are major issues about how we shape legislation and about legality and quality of implementation. We're looking at that integrally right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u522	It's certainly not the people, it's politics. I agree with the Prime Minister. If we are dealing with legislation here, how can we be sure that it is also enforceable? There are execution tests incorporated in laws, but somehow they do not work and there is insufficient capacity to actually implement what we are aiming for. This reduces the confidence that citizens should have in the government as implementing agents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u523	Absolutely. Agreed. The fact that these execution tests do not always prevent the misery is also true. So this is what we're looking at. I don't have the answer, not yet. What we want to do is to ensure that there is a cabinet approach and a whole work agenda this year. We'll send them to both chambers this year. In any case, all these issues will be described in turn, not yet resolving everything, because it is too big for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u524	I think it's too late to discuss it all. That will not be the case in this term of the General Reviews. It is also quite important for the Prime Minister to say: I do not really have the answer to the shared analysis that political ambitions that fall into legislation cannot actually be properly implemented. That's a hell of a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u525	Well, I didn't say that. I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u526	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u527	Yes, but you gave me my words. But I didn't want to put it that way. Look, the CBR, the IRS, DUO or NVWA are working awfully hard to deal with problems. My perception is that it is never really the people who work there, but the complexity that we, as politicians, have often caused. Mr Rosenmöller pointed out one aspect which is very relevant: if we then make policy, is it feasible? And is the way we test that right now the right way? That's one of the things that's being looked at right now. Only now I have no answer, otherwise we do not have to look at it, then I would have given that answer now. But it's so complex and you have to go through it as well and try to address a number of common features that arise as a problem in the implementation in this way, without solving the specific issues that arise in the individual services.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u528	Finally, Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u529	What can we expect from the cabinet in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u530	This year the cabinet approach will come up with a working agenda, in which we will, as it may be, settle the matter, but above all lay it down. That will also lead to debate. Our ambition is to control this step by step. This has been a great point in the Throne speech for a reason. I don't think the citizen is the government's client. We are all that government, with 17 million people. I always hate that customer supplier idea. I've never seen anything like that. But as a human being, you have to deal with that government. If you're involved, you're not a government client, you're just a citizen knocking on his government door. Then things have to be predictable, and of a certain level and quality. You can't always get what you want, but at least you want to understand what's going on. On Thursday, I will be able to attend a working conference of the Ombudsman, where I will ask a lot of questions to a lot of people from the implementation and ombudsmen world about how to make sure that you, as a government, are in good contact with the people. That is, of course, very often through those implementing organisations. Some things are very simple: if you can, call and don't send a letter. And when you send a letter, make sure it's readable. Those are the simplest things, which also turn out to be very difficult. However, when it comes to deeper issues such as regulations and their feasibility, we will have to look at them in a really fundamental way. I come to an issue on which several questions have been asked. I am very reluctant to go into that now. That is the issue of the First Chamber in relation to the electoral process, so the idea is that we go back to 1983. That was one of the suggestions of the Remkes Committee. I understand very well that there are MPs, including Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Schalk, who say: but that also affects the electorate. Those effects can have it, which depends very much on the design. I can imagine that parties who currently do not expect to triple over the next few years wonder what that means. I can now go into this in detail. The cabinet has taken a position on this, which of course still has to be fully discussed in the Lower House and in the Upper House. I can also imagine that on that occasion it will be cut in great detail. I would just like to point out that Remkes has given an opinion on this and that we should then seize that opportunity. We have only taken a first step in the legislative process. Mrs Jorritsma also appointed the right to return. We are going to talk about this further, because no decision has yet been taken on it. I heard very well what she said about it, namely that she is sending it back immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u531	Perhaps I should clarify my question. We know that the internet consulation surrounding the election of the First Chamber ended on 9 October and that there is still a consultation at the IPO and such. Can I ask the Prime Minister to then stop the process and not go to the Council of State with an opinion and go into the further legislative process until the final report of the State Committee on Parliamentary System has been discussed in both chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u532	That's actually a crazy question. Is it not better, then, to achieve the same objective, that Mr Schalk simply arranges for this Chamber to have a debate on that committee? Otherwise, we will have to stop our process. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Waarom zouden we?]] It's not going that fast. We still have to decide on this consultation, then it must lead to a legislative proposal, which will indeed have to be submitted to the Council of State for advice, which will always take months. But wouldn't it be better if, where that concern exists, this Chamber itself had a conversation with the Minister of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u533	In any case, I am very concerned in this Chamber about the fact that one single issue has apparently been raised with great speed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, and that is about the elections of the First Chamber. If this is the way to do so, I am afraid that it will be very easy and very quickly able to go to a legislative proposal. My specific question is whether the Prime Minister can promise that that process will be stopped and that we will first discuss the report in both Chambers. We are very much prepared to do so, we are waiting for that, but the first reading from the cabinet has only arrived at us, the second is scheduled for mid-December this year. In the meantime, we are doing one aspect, just one aspect that the state committee has advised not to do, but we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u534	Again, I'm not necessarily married to any particular proposal. These are imaginable proposals. The First Chamber serves here in the co-legislator role. One co-legislator is now asking the other co-legislator not to take up his role as co-legislator. We are not rushing in this area, I can say right away. Isn't it more practical to pay attention to this quickly? Surely we can have a debate here with each other, you and the Minister, about the proposals as they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u535	Mr. Schalk, last remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u536	That's exactly what we've wanted here, but we feel like we're going through that right now, with one bill. I understand that you cannot make that commitment, which means that I will at least propose to the Chamber in the second term to ask for that commitment from you, but by means of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u537	I think we're in agreement. I don't want to rush anything either. But I find it complicated in traffic that the Chamber asks the Cabinet not to take its own role in preparing a legislative proposal against which the Chamber can then say no. I understand that Mr Schalk says: do it all in the right order. I get that. So let me ask the government if they want to understand themselves with BZK. I cannot quite see if anything goes wrong if I say yes to Mr Schalk's question to take a moment. I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u538	Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u539	To be honest, I don't think a motion would help a lot. Because that would be a motion to the cabinet not to take on its own role. Just let me see what's going on. Perhaps the AZ administration will be able to give an answer in this period; then Mr Schalk will know what the situation is. Maybe that's even better. I've still got some stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u540	Let's see if there's a motion at all. Then there will be a second term from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u541	There's gonna be one. But maybe I can answer that in this term, Mr. Schalk. I'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u542	Can the President-in-Office of the Council have the official question as to whether it is indeed true that this Chamber, I think in the previous General Reviews, has said: we want to deal with the forthcoming report of the State Commission, but we want an appreciation of the Cabinet? To which the cabinet has said: of course we are going to give it. Problem is, he's not coming. It is now scheduled for November/December. But can we at least agree that this appreciation from the government comes as soon as possible? Then we are men and women enough to have a debate on this with the government and the state committee in the near future. I'm just asking an informative question. If AZ is still working, did we agree to this or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u543	What we agreed on, you know, I don't have to ask the officials. But let's get to the trial. The cabinet has its own room to ultimately respond to the advice of the Remkes Committee. That also calls for political weighting and so on. I do not quite understand, in the traffic between cabinet and chamber, why the First Chamber makes itself so dependent on the timing of the cabinet. If there were a majority in favour, couldn't you decide to refer the report yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u544	Mr Schalk, on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u545	Mr. Chairman. Let's get to the order of things. In this Chamber a few years ago a possible state committee was requested. That was taken over by the House of Representatives and then it was taken over by the government. That is a nice three-stage rocket, in which we have all said that it would be good to keep the parliamentary system under review. That's one. That report was then published and only a first reaction from the cabinet and the commitment that the second part of the cabinet's response will come in December. Then it seems very common to me to say: okay, we are talking about the wide-ranging operation of the parliamentary system, let's get it together and see what the report has produced. Then we can see what measures are needed for the future. Now there is one aspect that has been excluded that affects this Chamber, which has sparked the debate. This Chamber has the feeling that it has been a sort of haste, perhaps motivated by political reality after the previous elections. Maybe that's not true at all, but that's what it looks like. The request from me is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u546	It's obvious! Your question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u547	...don't do it this hasty way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u548	Mr. Schalk, may I point out your second term later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u549	This question was clear to me. I get it, too. I don't think it's a weird question at all. Mr Schalk says: wait with the legislation until that further appreciation arrives in December. I said I'd have BZK check whether I'm going through a terrible idea if I say yes to that now. I don't have that ready right now. I think it is nice that I should check with colleagues if I can see anything if I promise Schalk to wait until December and then come up with the bill. I'd like to check that out. Mr Kox asked another question. He asked about the timing. He said you'd have the second half of the reaction, too. I also support the idea that we should do this in December. So I also think that the answer is the best one. That's another theme. I believe that this is the subject of legislation over the three-year period, at least the three-year elections, so that you have six-year term. That is Mr Schalk's question. I think Mr Kox's question is broader. He asks when the First Chamber can talk about the Remkes report. Then it helps to have the whole reaction of the cabinet. That's how I understand his question. I agree that it is obvious to do so if the cabinet published the second half of the response in December. That makes sense to me. In my view, that leaves Mr Schalk's point for now. I'm gonna see if I can answer his question in this period. Then he'll know if we need a motion. From now on, I'm gonna take it a little slower. No, that's a joke. Mr Gerbrandy asked about the inequality in subsidies for political parties. It was announced in writing on 28 October that the proposal for the law would contain rules on transparency in the financing of decentralised political parties. These apply to both local and provincial departments of national parties as well as to local and provincial parties. No decision has yet been taken as to whether or not local political parties receive subsidies. This will be discussed in the further preparation. I can't anticipate that. I've listened very carefully, but it hasn't been decided yet. I fully understand the principled approach which Mr Gerbrandy refers to. I can sympathise with them, but I cannot anticipate the decision-making process. I'm gonna have to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u550	But I read that you wanted to postpone the decision, didn't I? That the decision isn't there yet, I get it. But what lives in my mind is that it is postponed for four years, because it needs to be dealt with only by the law political parties. Then I said: go do so with the Financing Act political parties, the Wfpp that now applies. We can arrange that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u551	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u552	You don't have a decision now. I have asked you to take a decision on it shortly, in one and a half years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u553	I'll take note of that. I can't see that. I know a lot, but now we're so deep in BZK, I don't know if that's true anymore. If Mr Gerbrandy says this in all conscience, it is already settled. I don't have to check that anymore, because you say it is. Then that's true, isn't it? On your authority, then! Then there is the question of municipal funding. That's the problem of stairs, stairs down. How do you ensure that funding breathes as much as possible? I'd like to say a few things about that. We are in the process of re-evaluating the whole standardisation system. Stability is also being considered. We hope to know more about it next spring. Then we will see what it means for the standardisation of the funds as of 2022. That's a process going on. Since this is still the case, it has been agreed that, in the meantime, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance, the fund managers, in consultation with VNG and IPO, will see what is needed for 2020 and 2021 to take measures to prevent or mitigate fluctuations in the accres. The intention is to put forward proposals for this before the end of the year. Mr Kox asked how we could involve opposition groups across the street in the decision-making process on the budget chapters and the tax plan 2020. We are striving for broad support, my answer would be. Has our country's administration been transferred to committees? Mr Schalk had a strong visual image. I thought: what keeps showing up there, but it turned out to be a list of committees, of which he had apparently typed out his input on the other side. That's how I understood it. It looked like one of those books from the pianola. I was a little freaked out too. I would almost be tempted to set up a committee for it, but we're not going to do that. I want to make it clear that, as far as I am concerned, the situation is that we govern and that you control. Together we make laws and advise the advisory board. It is true that it can sometimes help to get those advice. Take one of those nitrogen issues. I'm very happy that Remkes is there again, but now in the role of nitrogen advisor.... helps us with a number of experts to pull the knot out. That's what you need sometimes. If Mr Schalk's point is 'beware that the direction is not given out of his hands', I agree with that. We'll watch for that. Then there are the issues of kicking people out of office who don't implement the law. Everyone must abide by the law and everyone must carry out their duties with integrity. An arrangement whereby the government removes political ministers from office when they make choices in the enforcement that interfere with normal accountability relationships, so when they make certain choices that we do not like, that is really not possible. That would really damage the accountability of our decentralised unitary state. It also ignores the fact that it is inevitable that difficult choices are constantly made. I really shouldn't recommend that motion. Mrs Bikker asked for a reflection on the importance of fundamental social rights in the drafting and drafting of legislation. As Mrs Bikker says, these fundamental rights are not a sugar layer. They are essential to public policy. I agree with her. It extends policy-making in many areas of public trade, such as housing, social security, health care and education. These rights have been taken into account in the drafting of legislation since the time of policy conception. In addition, the concept of legislation is reviewed by BZK in the fundamental rights test. This is reflected in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u554	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u555	Just in response to Mrs Bikker on the importance of fundamental social rights. I very much agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u556	However, I would like to return to the motion on the expulsion of political officials if they do not implement the law or do not wish to enforce it. This is a nice example of what I said in 2016 during my contribution from the APB: so the empty VVD cry "no Dutch, no benefit" can go into the trash. That was then about the language requirement linked to the welfare bill. So, what's going on? It's not being enforced. There are 36,300 people in welfare who aren't able to speak the language. Of these, only 150 have been cut on their benefits. So I really want to say that we continue to muddle through weak policies. If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister says, "I'm not gonna do anything about it, because I can't do that." So we're all gonna tolerate that. This country's gonna be out of control if we're all in the movies like this, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u557	It's a matter for the city council to address the alderman's social affairs on that, isn't it? Surely that is not something we can resolve nationwide by firing an alderman of social affairs or a mayor from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u558	I think the mayor's been appointed, and I think we can do something about this. We can certainly do something about those aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u559	The dismissal of a mayor... Yes, it has been appointed by the Crown, but of course you talk about article 61b of the Municipal Law; we know that. That's very exceptional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u560	Mrs Faber, for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u561	But it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u562	It's okay, yeah, yeah. Article 61b, but that is, of course, very exceptional. Of course, that never happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u563	Yeah, everything just doesn't have to be everything. I have heard the Prime Minister give good answers on fundamental social rights, but I also felt that we should bring these fundamental social rights and the Constitution back to life. Yes, I know that everything is somewhere embedded in the procedures and is controlled, but I would like it to be so nice if we were to take it more firmly from the cabinet, but also in our role as co-legislator, and that we really show what these fundamental social rights mean. Social fundamental rights will then be given the right body. The Prime Minister referred earlier to the relationship between the market and the government: a strong government where necessary, so only where necessary. So I really call on the cabinet to show the Constitution that way and to make it look better in our beautiful country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u564	I agree. I also agree that we should do so in the legislative process, and that we should make this visible in the discussions, wherever relevant. I very much agree with that. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked about care. I see Mr De Jonge sitting up; pay attention to what I am going to promise. An important issue is, of course, the question of the labour market in care. Fortunately, we see that more people opt for a job in care, but we are not there yet. We also need to ensure that we keep employees for care and that they work differently. It also focuses on stimulating digital developments. In addition, we make innovations much more known through campaigns, such as the Care of Nu campaign. We will also continue to focus on recruiting people and working longer for people who work part-time, but we will also invest significantly more in supporting the employees. Additional money will also be made available, including for wage developments in the care sector. I mention the extra 1.7 billion available in 2019 for social partners to make good agreements in collective agreements, but also the Work in Care Action Programme and the 420 million for training for new employees. All these issues are very important in order to solve this issue. As a result, there is, of course, also the question of affordability. I think we're all proud of our system. We have made wide-ranging agreements in health care from patients to ggz, community care, medical specialists and general practitioners about the right care in the right place. How can we increase quality, reduce regulatory pressure, address labour market problems and also manage cost increases? We will continue to do so with the parties involved, also with cooperation across areas. With regard to a more fundamental rethink of this type of problem, also in conjunction with each other, the cabinet has announced that this was also stated in the Throne speech that we will come forward with further proposals before the summer of 2020. Mr. Chairman. Yes, it is undesirable if the combination of study and the expectations of the social environment, but also work for young people, for example, leads to, as it has been formulated, turning upside down by stacking this type of problem. Mrs Bredenoord drew attention to this. Young people must be given sufficient opportunities to build a good life. They must be sufficiently equipped to develop, to build an independent existence. When there are concerns about current and future young people and when there are concerns about access to education, issues such as the start-up of the labour market, affordable housing and the ability to start a family, the cabinet takes this very seriously. On the initiative of Gert-Jan Segers of the Christian Union, I myself had a few conversations with the "generation-Y" in which we talked about this type of problem. That was "can I just sum it up like that?" Oh, that's so cute. My first reaction was, guys, aren't we overreacting? But after two hours of talking, I thought, "Wow, what an incredible amount of attention comes to these people." It's not an exaggeration. At the school where I myself teach, I can honestly see what we now expect in final exams. That is right, because we have to set high standards, but I still have to see who has completed a gymnasium course here and is able to take a HAVO 5 exam at a school right now, because that is a little bit heavier than what you and I had 20 years or 30 years ago. This means that education is better, but that also means that the expectations we have of young people have increased enormously. That also has effects. In this accumulation, this is something that I cannot say other than that we need to be aware of, that we need to realise that with each other and that we need to take action where necessary. It's true that there's been a lot of money in youth care. In April, the results of the in-depth research received young people. This shows that more children than foreseen receive youth assistance. To meet municipalities, the government has allocated more than 1 billion extra for youth aid for the period 2019 to 2021. For 2019, 400 million has been added to the Municipal Fund. It has also been agreed to use a total of 20 million to position the Youth Authority in order to prevent the risk of care continuity, but also to have the opportunity to provide temporary liquidity support, which may be important. Rich and local authorities have concluded that, in addition to extra money, the organisation of youth aid should also be looked at. That's what administrative agreements have been made. The Minister for Health and the Minister for Legal Protection will inform the House before the Youth Legislative Consultation on 18 November. That is the point. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bikker asked about the broad approach to homelessness. You can see a sharp increase there in recent years. This can only be addressed with an integrated approach: living, financial security of existence, debt approach, training, guidance to work, care and guidance. All these aspects are important. On 17 September, Secretary of State Blokhuis of VWS informed the Chamber that we are coming up with an additional plan to reduce the number of homeless people in the coming years. We do this together with other, often also local parties. This can only be integral and this can only be done step by step. We need to get this under control. This has been done a great deal before, under the Cabinets-Balkenende, but you can see that these numbers are now increasing again. That is not acceptable. Then the bill Regulating prostitution and combating abuses in the sex sector. That is until mid-December in consultation. Afterwards the reactions of the consultation will be processed and the bill will go to the Council of State. The idea now is that the bill will be presented to the Lower House at the end of the first quarter or in the second quarter of 2020. That's the current planning. Mrs Bikker also asked for a broad exploration of the double ageing population and its impact on society as a whole. I think that's a fair question. I think it is important to look not only at the ageing population but also at other future developments. That is also what we are doing with the Exploratory Population 2050, the implementation of the Dijkhoff motion, by the way cum suis, in the House of Representatives. That motion asked to consider the possible consequences of demographic developments. We do this with planning agencies, the RIVM, the CBS, but also the Demographic Institute as captain. That happens in two phases. In the first phase, the available knowledge is identified and a coherent picture is drawn up in the second phase. This exploration also provides a knowledge base on which politics and policies can base themselves in the development of proactive policy interventions. Mrs Bredenoord and others, but above all Mrs Bredenoord, also drew attention to the issue of the last phase of life. I think that this is one of the many dilemmas in which ethical aspects play a very important role. In the coalition agreement it was agreed to stimulate social dialogue for some medical-ethical themes. Then it's about what we can and don't want to do with embryos, such as adjusting DNA, but also about the last phase of life. The specific question here is to respond to the dialogue on the last phase of life, in which three issues are discussed in conjunction: dignified ageing, the scope and application of current euthanasia legislation and the issue of completed life, which is obviously a very intimate and precarious subject. It has been chosen to conduct the conversations in a small circle, in the intimacy and confidentiality of almost literally the living room, then to broaden them to larger groups such as community centers and eventually to ensure that they are brought together in a larger final meeting. The idea is that it will take place before the summer. In addition, the VWS Minister has launched a campaign on palliative care. Part of this is to help people to have a timely conversation about their needs in the final phase of life. I think that we are trying to give adequate consideration to dialogue in society on this delicate issue. An even more delicate issue, if possible, is euthanasia in children, especially in children between the ages of 1 and 12. Mr Schalk drew attention to this. The Minister of VWS sent the Medical Decisions report on the end of children's lives to the Chamber in September. This research has highlighted the bottlenecks in care around the end of life in this extremely sensitive phase of life. The Court will discuss it with the researchers so that they can explain the results and recommendations. This is also in line with the medical ethics review framework set out in the government agreement, which takes into account the medical and scientific necessity, ethical reflection, social dialogue and political reflection. A response to the research will also be formulated on the basis of consultation with the researchers and taking into account the review framework. It is now planned that the response will be sent for the general consultation on Medical Ethics, which will take place on 4 December. The reaction will then be sent to the Lower House at the end of November, with of course a copy to the Upper Chamber. Then there is the question of preventing repeated abortions. We also discussed this last year in the debate at the General Reviews. The figures for 2018 will be presented at the end of the year. The cabinet uses two approaches to reduce the number of repeated terminations of pregnancy. Firstly, by removing financial barriers to long-term contraception for women at risk of repeated unintended pregnancy and who are themselves insufficiently financially effective. Secondly, by strengthening aftercare after an abortion, in particular by general practitioners. In 2019, field parties are working on tightening up the guide for general practitioners in the event of an unintentional pregnancy. That's already done, I just heard. Its implementation will take place in 2020. Then the placement of long-term contraception in abortion clinics will also be compensated. It is still too early to see the effects of this policy and the figures of the number of abortions, but the aim is quite clear on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the questions that have been asked about education. Starting with the demand for workload in higher education. Is the cabinet prepared to give a boost to the current proposals on recognition and appreciation, so that the social impact of education can be better addressed? A system that is less competitive and more cooperative is being developed. The Minister of Education, Ingrid van Engelshoven, has already brought out a number of things about this. This will also come back as a thread in the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education and Research which will be presented at the end of this year. The workload experienced by scientists is caused by well-known issues such as overtime and flexible contracts, but here also, of course, by the application pressure and the issue of educational tasks, and sometimes by the undervalue of these teaching tasks. At the same time, you also see a huge increase in the number of students. A whole range of measures are now being taken to reduce this workload. NWO also helps to reduce the application pressure. In order to ensure less flexible contracts, agreements have been made in the collective agreement. The path of recognition and appreciation of the various parties in higher education and science is also supported by the cabinet. Then there is Mrs Jorritsma's question about the targeted increase in salaries in education. We see that part-time teachers who are going to work more are also making an important contribution to reducing the shortage of teachers. That's absolutely true. If you could extend the current average working week in primary education of 28 hours over the next 4 years by half an hour, that would add 760 fte. It is therefore important for employers to make it possible for their staff to work more if they so wish and to encourage it. This is due to government investments in the coming years for everyone to pay more wages. Depending on the family situation, one day more work in education will bring about 4% to 12% more in the coming years than it is now, so you can see that this is actually starting to come back. We will send part-time part-time work to the Chamber around the Christmas holidays. A policy package for different views on part-time work will therefore be presented. The study also looked at measures that could make more hours of work more attractive. Questions about the loan were put by Mrs Bredenoord and Mr Kox. It has, of course, been introduced recently. The idea is well known: more money to higher education It was not a cut in income support and less. So away from the principle that the butcher at the corner pays for the study of a lawyer. We didn't go ice cream in one night, it's also known. Students who really need it still get an additional scholarship. The reimbursement conditions have been made more social: the monthly charges have fallen and the reimbursement can now be spread over 35 years. I sometimes say to students: if you don't find a job after college, you're not going to pay off anything until very little, and after so many years, that residual debt will eventually be waived. It's up to carrying capacity, and depending on the income, you're gonna pay off. I continue to think it's a logical choice that you invest in your own education in this way. It is well known that there are differences of opinion in the cabinet, but this is the line we have drawn together in the formation. Then there is the question of receiving an overview of how loan system revenues will go to higher education from 2020. 90% go directly to the institutions and quality agreements have been made for the period 2019 to 2024, in which the LSVb, the National Student Union, as well as the Interstedelijk Studenten Overleg have played a major role in reaching the agreement on these quality agreements. Mr Rosenmöller and Mrs Vos have asked questions about the shortage of teachers in basic education. That is a problem that we have also discussed in detail at the General Reviews in the House of Representatives. I mentioned there, and this evening too, that we are looking to find occasional money for resolving urgent issues in the context of the Navy's note. Apart from that, this problem has not been resolved from today to tomorrow. I have already spoken for a while, in response to Mrs Jorritsma's question, about the measures we are already working on. I would also like to mention the budget for side-intruders and re-enterers. We make sure that all applications can be honored. In the coalition agreement, 700 million were made structurally available for higher salaries and less workload. The investment of 270 million for salaries has also made a major contribution to making teacher's profession more attractive in primary education. They have improved 9.5% over the last two years. A further 333 million will be available from this school year to reduce the workload of teachers. That still amounts to 430 million in structural terms. Then money has become available for the wage adjustment in primary education, 285 million, as part of the collective bargaining process under way. And again, we want to see what we can do on occasion in the Autumn paper for 2020. We are also seeing a number of positive developments, in particular an increase in the number of side-instromers. Much more education support staff has been added. In the coming period, too, the joint approach remains essential in order to provide sufficient teachers in the short term. In the end, that remains the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u565	Then I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a few more questions. I hear a lot of money. But do I hear right now that this government believes that teachers in primary education and in secondary special education should earn as much as teachers in secondary education? Is that what all the sums you mention are aimed at? Are they gonna fix that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u566	No, I don't think we made a statement of principle on that, Mr. Slob and I. What we have tried to do is to close the gap between primary and secondary education, i.e. between p.o. and vo. But I do not think we have made the basic statement that they deserve the same. However, I would like to say here that people who teach children up to 12 years of age are doing an extremely crucial phase in a life, incredibly important work. But it is not the case that we have made a statement of principle on the equalization of salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u567	However, that question is quite important, very important. Do you think teachers in primary education should be paid less than teachers in secondary education? And why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u568	We want to reduce this pay gap, but we are not in advance opposed to the fact that there are differences across the whole education building between the different types of education. That is not a matter of principle. Only we think it makes sense that we are trying to narrow that pay gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u569	One of the main causes of the shortage of teachers, especially in primary education and secondary special education, is precisely that there is such a difference. One of the reasons why we have so few men in primary education is precisely that difference: you cannot be a breadwinner with such a salary. The question we have asked, like other parties, is whether we can eliminate that difference. And more importantly, with occasional money, we are not going to solve a structural problem. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u570	Guess a cop can't be a breadwinner either. That sounds crazy to me. I don't think so. Those salaries go up by 9.5%, but the statement that you could not be a breadwinner in primary education is just too short for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u571	Mrs. Fox, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u572	That question is not too short for many teachers. This is a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u573	I would also like everyone to have more money, but, of course, we have to make choices in scarcity and I think that we are doing so in a balanced way. Mr. Chairman. What action plan does the Cabinet have to achieve the internationally agreed Lisbon objectives in the field of science and in the field of research and development? I am now looking closely at the chairman; this is touching him. The Netherlands has set a target for R&D expenditure of 2,5% of GDP in 2020. We were 1.99% of GDP in 2017, and since then, we have been investing up to 400 million more in structural terms. We want to keep an eye on the 2.5% target. And so we keep an eye on all kinds of objectives. In the field of defence, in this field, we are constantly keeping sight of objectives. But we're taking a big step, with $400 million to rebuild it. It's 1.99% now. I would like to answer one more question, for which I shall return to Mr Schalk. That question was about the constitutional proposal. In the meantime, I have been informed, and after consultation with BZK, the advice is that I stick to the timetable as we have communicated it. There are three proposals for consultation. They go to the Council of State after consultation through the Cabinet. The Minister of BZK is available to the First Chamber for consultation, anytime. We really want to stick to our own part in the process here. The government's up to it now, and then it's gonna be dealt with here. And I hear very well that it will not only be able to count on cheers here. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions, unless someone jumps up very angry and says: you've only been talking for three and a half hours and you haven't answered my question. There she is!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u574	Mrs. Faber. Don't be angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u575	I'm not mad, you know, because you can always answer the question. In my speech I had a bit about the problem of nitrogen, and I made a link with the population pressure and its disastrous consequences. Why is this not the subject of discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u576	I have outlined that, on the basis of the Dijkhoff motion from the House of Representatives, we are looking at the demographic development of the Netherlands between now and 2050. I answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u577	That is a bit short, of course, an answer from one sentence. Of course, this has a lot of consequences, because we keep going on and on. The migration balance was on average 100,000 per year over the last two years. And since your arrival, there has been a population growth of 400,000 people. It just can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u578	But of course you have to see what's in that number. One of the things we look very closely at, for example, is the example of the flow of refugees. Are we going to ensure that people who have no business here get out of here as soon as possible, and that the Netherlands continues to receive from the point of view of civilisation people who are really dependent on protection, provided in manageable numbers? That's that piece. That's the flow of refugees. But there is also, of course, a huge inter-European migration, which is simply necessary to ensure that the work continues here. Those are not people who take root here, but they are people who make a big contribution to our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u579	Mrs Faber, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u580	Now it's just pure, sec, the numbers: how many people can the Netherlands handle? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u581	This is looked at from the perspective of the research. This is due to the motion for a resolution by Mr Dijkhoff and others. Further worked out, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u582	The Prime Minister asked if there were any questions left. There is one more specific question I have asked about the Lelyline. I said that we actually owe money to those areas. I meant, of course, Groningen, to which we have ever earned more than EUR 400 billion. There's some trouble out there. That Lelyline is of paramount importance to the north, to Groningen. I understand that even an investigation into that Lelyline has been refused, but I wanted to hear from you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u583	I haven't found him now, so I'm gonna... Second term? Second term, I hear from my officials. So it's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u584	The Prime Minister asks if any questions remain to be answered. I would like to ask him a question for his second term. I see the Prime Minister feeling constantly with his hand in his pocket from my new seat. You have to do something with your hands, but it gives me the impression that the Prime Minister is constantly thinking: is everything I had still in there, or did I by mistake give something away to this Chamber? I haven't actually been able to notice a substantial donation to this Chamber, while the Prime Minister says he is urgently looking for support. Did the Prime Minister have the idea that you could get support if you came empty-handed and left with full pockets? Then it's not gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u585	The whole problem is those bags were empty and are empty. There's just no money; we're just in debt. We are also looking, of course, at how we can build bridges when dealing with all kinds of legislation here. I do not regard the General Reviews here as the moment to suddenly make great movements. I haven't done that in recent years, and I don't think that's the time. In my view, this is the time to talk about what we need to do and what are the major issues that are going to be dealt with in more detail in the near future. That's what we're doing here, and I think we're doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u586	The Prime Minister said: "And now I come to Mr Kox's questions, because he had a number of proposals, also on behalf of other left-wing parties. Well, we're looking for support. Next point." That's 18 votes in this Chamber. For a cabinet that doesn't get to half the number of seats here, that's an attractive portion of votes, I'd say. If then the Prime Minister's only comment is 'we are looking for support; next subject', then that does not seem to me to be the fastest way to make friends in this Chamber and get majorities. In your second term, therefore, you will have to state what you have to offer us. Indeed, we are talking about it even further, but with a cabinet that asks for support but ultimately can't give anything because we only have debts, as the Prime Minister says, it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u587	Then I have a different interpretation of the purpose of this debate. I do not think that this is meant to be the case here, as in the market. I believe that we are trying to taste each other's kidneys about what the essential principles of policy are, and how they are viewed from different political formations. That will have to be further deepened in debates on policies and budgets as they come. Then we'll really take advantage of everything we've heard here. These are all building blocks for what we can then discuss more specifically in the debate. I am not going to make promises here suddenly, or say: there will be an extra billion for sister, or half a billion for such. I can't do that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u588	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm glad we finally got to the kidneys after 12 and a half hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u589	Yeah, I tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u590	The order is as follows. We are now going to the second term of the Chamber. Then we get the government's second term. Then we get a suspension and then we get the votes. My first question to Members is whether there is a need for a suspension. Or can we go straight to the second term of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u591	I would continue with the second term and then suspend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u592	Fine. That was my question. We're gonna suspend the vote anyway. The question is whether we should be suspended now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u593	I wonder which votes you are referring to. Are the motions tabled today being put to the vote? Or are they normally put to the vote next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u594	In the General Political Reviews it is customary that the motions are put directly to the vote, the same evening. Before that, we are going to suspend considerably so that you can talk about this in the group. Then we will vote, unless you say as a Chamber: we do not need a vote tonight. Then we can do it next week. I suggest we go first to the second term of the Chamber. If there is no need for a suspension now, I give the floor to Mr Cliteur for his second term. I would point out, in accordance with previous agreements, that the remaining time you have reserved for yourself in the second term on the clock will appear in front of you. The request is whether you want to stick to that time. Again, you have asked me to stick to it if necessary. Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u595	All I see is a sad zero minutes left. Oh, it's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u596	It's not going to be much more, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u597	I'm disappointed, but okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I talked about the state. In the remaining four and a half minutes, I would like to say a few words about the criminal challenge and the terrorist challenge for the State. For example, the murder of lawyer Derk Wiersum is also a challenge for the rule of law. Why? Because legal aid by a lawyer is essential to the self-limitation of a state. When lawyers are no longer willing or able to defend key witnesses, the state automatically loses its constitutional character. Then people will say: that must never happen. We say that in choir, of course, but who would advise his daughter or son to take on this job if the state itself was unable to resist the criminal challenge? Jawed S.'s attack at the Amsterdam Central Station, as well as Wiersum's murder, was an attack on the rule of law. Why? Because violent victims such as S. have managed to get even the most secure Dutchman, Mr Wilders, to refrain from organising his protest to defend the freedom of criticism. My question: isn't that similar to the situation where we can't find a lawyer who wants to defend a key witness? Should this not give us as the First Chamber as guardian of the rule of law to think? Now we're not just failing. We are failing, in a way, European. We may fail globally. Denmark, France, the United States of America: they have all actually tried to uphold freedom of expression, against the jihadist terrorism that is trying to suppress that freedom. They did not succeed. That is, in a sense, not only an attack on individuals, but also an attack on principles. It is an attack, in our case, on Article 7 of the Dutch Constitution, which guarantees the freedom of printing press, and on Article 10 of the ECHR, on freedom of expression. They have in a way become dead letters. At least, on all these points, the jihadist martyrs have drawn the longest conclusion. Why? Because they are willing to die for the abolition of Article 7 of the Constitution, but we are not in favour of maintaining it. What I think we need is a resilient rule of law. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with me. Let me make a few suggestions. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that freedom of expression is under pressure and that we should defend it more strictly? That's question one. Secondly, does the Prime Minister agree with me that such an approach is not appropriate and that those who have provoked the wrath of the jihadists are likely to end up in an enormous security regime for the rest of their lives? The third question: does the Prime Minister share the view that it is ironic that this attack on freedom of expression was followed by a new attack by the European Commission, which is now trying to turn online platforms into self-censorship? I would like to hear the Government's answer to these questions, and I would like to repeat in particular what was discussed this afternoon in the exchange of views with Mr Bredenoord. Can the Prime Minister explain why websites such as ThePostOnline, The Daily Standard and GeenStijl are classified as junk sites, where links such as De Correspondent and Joop.nl are not addressed? We believe that this is a gross attack on diversity. We believe that the government should not take sides in this discussion. That seems to be happening now. I would particularly appreciate it if the Prime Minister could also shed light on these questions about the functioning of the Dutch rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u598	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. I call Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gee, I've got a lot of time left. I'll try not to use it entirely. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply. We did it again and it's getting late again. I would like to say a few more words on a few issues. Thank you again for lighting up a little bit of the veil about the fund that is being considered. I understand that it will in any case be a public fund, which could finance one-off investments in important areas that are good for the economy. Exactly what that is, we hear at a later moment. It reminds me a little of the Infrastructure Fund we used to have. This was financed by natural gas revenues. This new fund is financed by loans. Hm. That means, in my opinion, that it becomes even more important. I would like to hear the Prime Minister make a commitment that it will be very important to make a good law on this, with very firm criteria. My experience with that previous fund was precisely that at the end of the journey everything turned out to be an important investment. Unfortunately, that is not always true. That was my first point. Secondly, I would like to make a comment on a subject that I have not mentioned myself, but which has been discussed extensively in the debate. That's the landlord's tax. That is not a temporary levy, it is a structural levy. As far as I am concerned, it does not need to be abolished, if only because I am sure that the corporations still have a very good financial position. There's no way they're building because there's no money. They're not building because there are no locations. At the moment there is an additional problem, but it is mainly about the locations. That is the problematic issue. As far as I am concerned, this does not need to be given the first priority. In addition, we must then indicate cover in how we intend to finance it. That's not about a small amount. On the Remkes committee: I did not say anything about a bill on return law, but about a draft law proposing a unified meeting to finalise constitutional changes. As far as I'm concerned, you can throw that in the trash. In due course, I would like to hear others say so, if we are ever going to have a debate on the proposals themselves. In addition, I assume that we can decide for ourselves what to do when. To be honest, I think it's a little pretentious when we say that the House of Representatives shouldn't do anything about a bill. Suppose that there is now an interest in the House of Representatives to deal with one of the draft laws which are now in consultation, then it should do so in particular. I find it rather pretentious when we say: none of this can yet be done; just wait until everything is there. We could have had a debate in this First Chamber for a long time, but we have always said that we will not do so until after the House of Representatives has discussed it. I'm fine with it. I also think it is good to have the debate on this for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u600	A small correction perhaps towards Mrs Jorritsma. Perhaps she did not attend all the committee meetings, but in my humble opinion we not only said that we should wait for them, but also said that we should also wait for the second letter from the cabinet, which includes the appreciation. We very much wanted to have a conversation with the authors of the report. A number of other steps have therefore been taken which may be important in achieving a good balance and which must also be seen in conjunction with the report as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u601	What I am trying to say is that we are going to table motions here in which we say that the cabinet should now stop preparing legislation and that the House of Representatives should not say anything about it at all. That's not the way it's supposed to be with the House of Representatives. I find it a little strange that we should say: stop taking this legislation further until the Second and the First Chamber have discussed it. I find that a little weird and rather pretentious on our part. The Lower House must decide for itself what it wants to take into consideration, just as the Cabinet must decide whether it wants to send something in advance. I don't think that's a good idea, not a good idea. I would also say: wait until there has been a conversation. The other side of the coin is that the first appreciation has been there for a long time. So we too are not very fast together. Then there is a comment about the staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek. I didn't say anything about that in my term. I always find it a bit difficult, because I have been chairman of the Association of Dutch Municipalities, so I have a history there. At the same time, I continue to find it very unpleasant that the cuts for the municipalities are always being made when the stairs are down. But if more money can be spent, then the cabinet fails to spend the money. That's why the accres go down. So perhaps we should reconsider whether we should not look more closely at the budget rather than the account. That would make the lives of the municipalities much simpler. If you take that into account in advance, I do not think it is so complicated, because that was what you were counting on at the beginning of the financial year. Finally. I welcome the commitment on part-time and part-time IBO. I understand very well that in some parts of men's and women's lives there is a need for shorter work. But it's gradually becoming a disease in the Netherlands.It's also a Dutch disease.It's also a Dutch disease that boys but especially girls immediately after their education, without having any care to do, already opt for part-time work. That's not good. It is also not good for the appreciation of the work itself. I think the status of a profession is affected when a lot of people in that profession work part-time. This applies not only to education, but also to care. So I hope that the ibo will speak some wise words about that and that we can think of ways to seduce people to work a little more hours. This solves the personnel problem in a completely different but probably simpler way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u602	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. Mr Rosenmöller has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u603	Mr. Chairman. Of course, a heartfelt word of thanks to the Prime Minister for his first-term response. I would like to make four comments in three minutes. If you realize I'm speaking a little fast, that's why. My first comment. I listened with interest to the Prime Minister's plea for a strong market, a strong market leader and a strong government. He acted like he'd felt that way for 20 years. Forgive me for interpreting this in such a way that this is a somewhat more modern view of liberalism in 2019. I think that is a gain, because I myself spoke in my first term of office about the need to look at the government again. The latter also affects my second comment. As I said in the first term, the government must be a good enforcer. The Prime Minister said that the cabinet will come later this year with a cabinet agenda when it comes to implementing organisations. We will, of course, be waiting for that. For me, one of the conclusions of this debate and the work that has been done in this context in recent months is that we must be incredibly aware of the importance of proper implementation, which must be linked to the laws that we adopt here. That is what the citizens can expect from us. We're gonna have the whole discussion about the Environment Act. Some predict a new crisis in the implementation of that law. I'll put that on the table with my colleagues, too. My third comment. I had two interrupt debates which I did not think were enough, namely in a game of words. First of all... The government has included a phrase in the coalition agreement which states that, in addition to all these statistics, people must also experience it themselves. That is a view of the cabinet. Then I would like to know how we can hold the cabinet to the fact that this objective is being achieved. Then we should not end up in a semantic discussion. Secondly, the debate on Urgenda. There's a legal verdict. Then I think that the cabinet should say straight to the Chamber: we are carrying it out. Then it should not say: we strive for it. This is not an effort obligation, it is an obligation to achieve results. My final comment. At the end of a debate, one wonders what the harvest of that debate is. For us, the purpose of such a debate is twofold. Firstly, a confrontation of ideas, views and views on the 2020 policy. Secondly, I say to the Prime Minister that there are groups here that want to achieve something in such a debate. And I haven't been able to do that so far. The Prime Minister did not give a positive response to a point that our group had to make in the first term. This concerns the issue of the establishment of an independent committee, following, among other things, a remark made by Chief Constable Akerboom. He said that we cannot maintain the rule of law if we do not opt for more constant funding. On that point, I'm filing a fairly wide-ranging motion. The President shall: Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Bikker, Mr Bredenoord, Mr Vos, Mr Knapen, Mr Koffeman and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent cabinet periods, the organisations serving the rule of law, namely the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, have been confronted with varying policies and funding;]] [[believes that our rule of law benefits from a long-term vision and continuity of funding;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into the possibilities and conditions under which such continuity can be better ensured and the rule of law strengthened sustainably, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u604	I thank Mr Rosenmöller and give the floor to Mr Knapen, who has one minute left of his original speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u605	Mr. Chairman. To begin with, many thanks to the Prime Minister for the detailed answer to the questions. One point is sticking with me. I do not think this point can be resolved tonight, but I would like to give it to you for the follow-up. We have asked ourselves, among other things, whether, when it comes to combating drugs, we are not actually asking agents to maintain a standard that is no longer shared by parts of the population. During the Prime Minister's reply, I was reminded of a book that came out about twenty years ago under the title: The Poachy State. This is a major sociological/cultural/social problem, which the Prime Minister answered with two solutions: a letter from Minister Grapperhaus, which will shortly be sent, and a letter from the Secretary of State of VWS, which will also be sent shortly. In fact, that is what this is all about: that we do not replace enthusiasm with bureaucracy. The opposite should be the case. Besides, I think my time is up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u606	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. Then I'll go to Mrs. Fox. It has been skilful and has four minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u607	Mr. Chairman. So we're going to file a motion. No, we won't. I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for his introductory remarks on what I said about racism. I am very pleased that the government wants to set a standard and that the Prime Minister wants to be there for all Dutch, no matter where they were born or what they look like. I think that's a very important statement. Thank you. We did not agree on education, because we differ fundamentally on how to assess teachers in primary, secondary and secondary education. If you look at Finland, where people line up to take a university course and then have to do tests to be able to teach, then the profession or the course teacher is highly respected and the children receive the very best education they deserve. There are no delays and there is no shortage of teachers. That's where they understand exactly how the market works. In this case, the labour market works fairly purely. The main reason why there are so few men in primary education and opt for a full-time job in primary education is because they earn so much less than in other subjects and so much less than in secondary education. That is why my question and the plea of colleagues in this Chamber to eliminate that difference in order to work towards it. I understand that this cannot be done at once, but please admit that you are going to work on this in a structural manner. We are about to have a motion on this, which I will give to the President. I would like to say one thing about the landlord's tax, because there was a bit of uncertainty about that. It was a crisis measure that was taken to get money in the crisis we were in then. That's about 1.7 billion a year. The Prime Minister has just said that it will help if housing corporations have more money. In this respect, our group supports the motion that Mr Gerbrandy will be tabling shortly on reducing the landlord levy by more than the 100 million that is now being added annually. With the increase in the WOZ value of all these houses, the housing corporations notice very little of the reduction in the landlord's tax. Mr President, I can make you happy. I have a minute and a half left and I'm not giving it to anyone else, but we're just going home a minute and a half earlier. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Kox, Mr Koffeman and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas each child should be able to count on a good teacher for the class;]] [[noting that the growing shortage of teachers is a threat to equal opportunities in education;]] [[considers that the work of teachers in primary and secondary special and secondary education is equally important;]] [[calls on the Government to add structural funds to the Education budget in order to align wages in primary and special secondary education with secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u608	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the detailed answer to our questions. I have drawn attention to a number of pressing issues for the future. Firstly, we asked the Prime Minister about the position of young people and the problem of stacking. You have recognized this problem with great care, but what are you going to do? My group would like to hear a little more and a little more concrete about this. Secondly, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply on the broad package of measures taken by the Cabinet to reduce the workload in higher education. Furthermore, you indicate that you are keeping an eye on 2.5% of gross national product investment in science, but the Lisbon target is 3%, so you are actually saying that you are not going to make it. The question is whether you are prepared, including with the fund, to make it in the long term. I'd like another comment. Thirdly, I asked the Prime Minister to release money from the fund, specifically for science. There were some circular movements about knowledge-raising and innovation, but in the end the Prime Minister and I seemed to be in line, namely that the fund should focus on innovation, knowledge-raising and science. If you share this lecture, it will be completely right and satisfied. Fourthly, in response to questions about when the investment fund will start, I have heard from the Prime Minister that we are going to discuss the first proposals of the fund at the next General Political Reviews in the First Chamber. I immediately took it on for my input in 2020. I'll remind you. You know right away what I'm going to talk about. Fifthly, I have urged the Prime Minister to make real haste with a digital civil rights agenda. Yes, it must also be drawn up in conjunction with technological companies, but the government really has a great role to play here to safeguard state-of-the-art values. I think you've acknowledged that, too. Sixthly, I asked for attention to be paid to the sustainability of our health care and staff shortages. You have indicated that extra money is available for the collective agreement, for the attractiveness of work in care. I look forward to the further, more fundamental proposals on the sustainability of care for the summer of 2020 with great interest. Finally, the Prime Minister has indicated that the cabinet will be presenting a letter in December on whether and if so, which parts of the ESC's opinion on women will be taken over by the cabinet at the top. You indicated that there are still some flanks to connect in the cabinet and that you did not want to give your own opinion here, but I am actually very interested in your own opinion, so feel free and give it to me in a moment. If it were stated in that letter of December that no parts of the ESC opinion, in particular on quotas, would be taken on board, that would be extremely disappointing. Mr President, I will conclude my second term with the last 9 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u609	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I understand that Mrs Faber is abandoning her 21 seconds. Then we go to Mrs. Bikker for her remaining two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u610	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his ever cheerful and comprehensive response. My group's question as to how economic growth and care for creation and society can relate to each other in a sustainable way will remain an exciting issue for this cabinet, but also for the Cabinets below. It is precisely for this reason that we believe it is important that the implementation of the Climate Agreement should really look at broad support, make it visible where we make the profits and also ensure that we do so in the long term with society as a whole. Secretary of State Snel's birthday. There was someone's birthday on this day and that was Abraham Kuyper. He said, "Reigning is something other than administering." I believe that it is precisely in these issues that it is important to make that support stand out and make it visible. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment to involve the dual ageing of the population in the implementation of the Dijkhoff motion. I ask him to send the results from the government to the Supreme Court as well. With regard to fundamental social rights, I have asked for them to live more firmly in the treatment of legislation and with emphasis on access to justice, and I am referring to the legal aid that has been financed. That's where it cracks and squeaks for the social attorney. I have not seen the Prime Minister make any substantial commitments for the period up to 2024 that the social lawyer can maintain, except that he highlights the bottlenecks and looks at what is possible within the budgetary framework. But I think we've been doing that for a long time. This is a serious concern of my group. If we cannot solve this in years of high-conjunction, especially with a view to a sustainable system from 2024, then it will never work. So I really ask the cabinet to make the ambition that it has to live up to and to talk to the lawyer who has now left the table. Mr President, my final point. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his commitment to a genuine cabinet-wide approach to homelessness. The Prime Minister has said that this is unacceptable. There is a great deal of ambition to change this. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u611	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I'll look at Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u612	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his three and a half hours of reply. But Jan Schaefer would say: can you live in it? I have to say that this is very difficult in this case. I like to keep lists of what is given to this Chamber by the Cabinet, but I think the counter is at zero. That is not the way to find support for a cabinet that is in a minority situation in the Second and First Chambers. If the Prime Minister is not prepared to do more, then I wish him much strength in finding majorities for his policy. It is not just kidney tasting that the President knows all about..... but it is also here, as Mr Rosenmöller said, to see what the outcome of a debate is. If the Prime Minister's reaction to the proposals of three left-wing opposition parties is to seek support, that is too little and I am disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u613	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u614	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands consumes as if we would have 3.6 globes at our disposal, which is not the case, I say abound. The Prime Minister doesn't seem comprehensible for moderation on that point. He agrees that we are the dirtiest little boy in the class in the field of nitrogen, but he wants to continue with the slaughter of 650 million animals in the bio-industry after a short and miserable life. The Remkes Committee has briefly stated that "not everything can be done," but that message does not seem to be spent on the cabinet. Until Kazakhstan, they are interested in taking over our mistakes from the present and past in the bio-industry. And they also want to consume there as if they have several globes at their disposal. That's rubbing in the stain and exporting the problems we have here elsewhere. That's not a good plan. For that reason, the next motion. Could time be stopped for a moment, Mr. Chairman? The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kox, Mr Rosenmöller and Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Natura 2000 sites are seriously affected by excessive nitrogen depositions;]] [[Whereas shrinking livestock is an effective measure to protect nature from nitrogen, but is not yet part of the instruments of nitrogen reduction policy;]] [[calls on the government to include a shrinkage of livestock as a policy instrument in the nitrogen reduction policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u615	Mr. Chairman. Today, de Volkskrant opened with the news that we in the Netherlands are raising the forests of Estonia and the United States in our coal plants with billions of subsidies as a destructive way of greenwashing and waste of taxpayers' money. Brown current leading to far-reaching deforestation. Irresponsiblely expensive, irresponsiblely destructive. We need to stop this. That's why the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Gerkens, Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Cliteur proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that next year, the Cabinet has allocated EUR 11.4 billion of subsidy to biomass power plants;]] [[noting that biomass in power plants leads to large-scale deforestation and biodiversity loss and poses a threat to food security;]] [[noting that the climate gains of wood-fired biomass in energy production are negligible;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to all planned subsidies for wood-fired biomass plants as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u616	Mr. Chairman. SyRI is the opaque translation of personal data from government databases without adequate parliamentary control. We read today that the cabinet says that ethnic profiling is not allowed by the Tax Administration, but that is exactly what SyRI does, among other things. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Kox, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Rosenmöller proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the System Risk Indication (SyRI) tool is a large-scale linking of citizens' personal data from government databases;]] [[noting that citizens who, according to SyRI, meet a risk profile end up in a database for two years without being informed thereof;]] [[whereas personal data should only be processed in a targeted manner;]] [[Whereas the data are not used in a targeted manner;]] [[Whereas the SyRI studies have so far produced little results;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an evaluation of the deployment, effectiveness and legality of SyRI and to share the results with both Chambers within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u617	Mr. Chairman. I've got two minutes left. I'd like to take it with me next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u618	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Then I'm going to see Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u619	Mr. Chairman. Earlier today, I called on the cabinet to realism, ratio and direction. Unfortunately, in the reply of the Prime Minister this evening, I have not been able to hear much action and direction. The only thing the Prime Minister consistently excels in in terms of effectiveness and direction is increasing the collective burden burden to almost 40% by now. In this respect, he has already surpassed the Den Uyl cabinet, which wanted to achieve nice things for left-wing people; he has made up for it on the left. Unfortunately, too little effort and direction are being found in the nitrogen crisis and in the handling of the burden reduction. Unfortunately, I have to add, I did not really get the warm feeling that the Prime Minister in Brussels is going to take the fist to prevent a higher Dutch contribution to the EU. That is why we are tabling three motions this evening, which are also supported by a number of other parties: two on the nitrogen crisis and one on the reduction of charges. I will now hand those motions over to the chairman. The President shall: Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Rookmaker, Mr Cliteur, Mr Schalk and Mr Diederik van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the nitrogen crisis is causing serious damage to the Dutch economy, in particular to the agricultural sector and the construction sector;]] [[Whereas the main cause of the nitrogen crisis lies in the fact that far too many relatively small Natura 2000 sites have been designated, 167 sites;]] [[Whereas the solution to the nitrogen crisis must be found in the rationalisation of the designated Natura 2000 sites, with the aim of achieving a significantly smaller number but more robust Natura 2000 sites, in order to manage the nitrogen crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake such a rationalisation of Natura 2000 sites in the short term and, if necessary, to invite the European Union to cooperate in this rationalisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Otten, Mr Rookmaker and Mr De Vries proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the progress of the PAS crisis is very worrying;]] [[that there is a clear lack of plan B in the case of a worst case scenario;]] [[that ongoing construction projects are blocked by legal procedures of private individuals, the European Union or other interested parties;]] [[noting that, where appropriate, the Dutch authorities interpret their own legal area too widely;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up as soon as possible an exhaustive list of similar risks currently facing the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Otten, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Rookmaker and Mr De Vries proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that collective burden pressures have increased sharply in recent years to almost 40%;]] [[the need in the short term to significantly reduce the burden on workers and pensioners;]] [[that the Secretary of State for Finance indicates that a short-term adjustment of the general tax rebate and the elderly discount can be achieved and can take effect as of 1 January 2020, and that the President of De Nederlandsche Bank indicates that there is financial scope for reduction of charges;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of significantly reducing the burden on workers and the elderly by 1 January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-H]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-I]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u620	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. That debate will certainly continue in the near future, hopefully in this Chamber again soon. I note that the Prime Minister is not prepared to set up a Audit Board. I also note that, in my view, the Prime Minister did not read the letter properly, but because of the time I will leave it alone. It'll turn out to be. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion to raise the old-age discount. The President shall: Members Van Rooijen, Baay-Timmerman, Otten, Rookmaker, De Vries, Faber-van de Klashorst and Cliteur propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the employment reduction is to be increased by around €1,000 in the next three years, with a budget of €2.15 billion;]] [[whereas the elderly discount is only increased by the table correction factor, leading to a maximum increase in that discount of around €100 over the next three years;]] [[calls on the government to substantially increase the elderly discount over the next three years and to spread the reduction over a longer period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u621	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Prime Minister for his manner of reply. Respect for the way he did it with verve. We have not agreed on all the issues. We didn't expect that, of course. I'll leave a few themes to rest. They will certainly come back to the General Financial Reviews, such as the salmon standard, questions about earners, the Climate Law and the 2% standard for NATO. I think I'll come back to that. It was very nice that the Prime Minister indicated that the Dutch policy on abortion, which I am not happy with, is the starting point for international relations. In any case, that gives me the feeling that the Foreign Ministers and/or Foreign Trade Ministers are going to say something about this in the right places. I understand very well that the Prime Minister did not want to mention certain countries that he would like to criticise. We'll have an impact assessment from Minister De Jonge in a while, I hope. I understand that there are no figures yet for 2019. They're coming. Perhaps the Minister can give an explanation as to whether he is already seeing effects. The last topic I would like to discuss is the situation surrounding the suspension of the legislative process of the First Chamber election. The Prime Minister says he is not in a hurry, but the Minister for the Interior has indicated that he will continue with the timetable and that he intends to submit that proposal to the Council of State for its opinion this year. Furthermore, the cabinet aims to complete the first reading during this cabinet period. That's why I'm filing this motion. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Otten, Mr Koffeman, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Vos, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at the request of the First and Second Chambers, the Government has set up the State Committee on Parliamentary System;]] [[Whereas this State Commission has presented the final report "Low thresholds, high dikes," but this final report has not yet been discussed in both Chambers of the States General;]] [[Considering that on 3 September 2019 the Ministries of General Affairs and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations submitted a proposal for constitutional amendment in consultation concerning the term of office of the members of the First Chamber and the second reading of the constitutional revision;]] [[whereas, in its final report, the State Committee has advised that the elections of the Supreme Court should not be adjusted;]] [[Whereas it is also necessary to develop changes to a parliamentary system in the broad coherence of the final report, including in order to assess the precise consequences;]] [[calls on the Government to complete the consultation process already under way and then to wait for further steps, both in the request for an opinion from the Council of State and in the further legislative process, at least until the debate on the final report of the State Commission has taken place in both chambers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u622	My final remark is that, of course, I wish the cabinet a heartfelt strength and God's blessing, even for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u623	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, I am going to Mr Gerbrandy. With him too, I see a zero on the counter, but here too we show flexibility. Mr. Gerbrandy, I'll give you one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u624	Thank you, Mr President. I also appreciate the Prime Minister and the Cabinet for this discussion and the answers they are trying to give. Stand still the Lelyline. I would like to thank you for your commitment to resolve the inequality in the subsidy of political parties as soon as possible. The motion I announced did not advise you, but in the meantime I have adapted it to get a little more support in this Chamber. I'm handing over that motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u625	So this motion replaces your original motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u626	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u627	The Gerbrandy motion (, letter) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the existence of a serious housing emergency situation in the Netherlands, partly because housing corporations and private landlords have been subject to a landlord's tax since 2013;]] [[that this landlord levy was imposed at the time in order to alleviate the budget deficit;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that the situation is now completely different;]] [[that there is therefore no longer any reason to maintain this landlord's tax;]] [[that housing corporations can make a substantial contribution to building more good, sustainable and affordable houses for, in particular, those with lower incomes;]] [[the need for housing corporations and private landlords to be able to resolve the government's housing shortage and climate objectives at the rate of EUR 1.7 billion a year;]] [[calls on the Government to substantially reduce the landlord levy by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by members Gerbrandy, Vos, Sent, Koffeman, Kox and Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u628	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for the second term of office of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u629	Yes, Mr. Chairman, we should do that. I had a number of questions to answer and a number of motions to deal with. I'll start with the questions. Mrs Jorritsma asked a question about the robust criteria for that fund. We also want to learn lessons from the Economic Structure Strengthening Fund, the FES. So the answer to that question is yes. D66 said that science should also be able to be included. If you share the lecture, that's fine. Agreed. Cliteur spoke of an attack on the rule of law. Of course, every crime is on its own and it concerns cases that are under the courts. That is why I am, of course, reluctant. I understand very well what Mr Cliteur is saying here, but I have to keep it in those more general terms, because it is also cases that are under the courts. Mr Cliteur said: "A resilient rule of law is needed. Freedom of speech is under pressure. Victims of threat end up in strict security and are therefore effectively restricted in their freedom of expression, and in any case in their freedom of movement." I share Mr Cliteur's concern. The State cannot be in danger, and therefore security is needed and its detection and prosecution is important. Both are given the highest possible priority. We agree on that. Mr Cliteur also asked why certain sites are classified as junk sites. First of all, freedom of expression. I agree. It's the lead here. This does not mean that there is no social discussion about what responsibilities social media have in general. What Mr Cliteur probably refers to is a study of researchers from the UvA. To implement the Middendorp/Verhoeven motion, the University of Amsterdam has conducted research into the impact of social media and search engines on the elections. Before the autumn recess, the Minister of BZK informed the House of Representatives about this. The qualifications in that report of certain sites as "mainstream media" or as "junk sites" are entirely borne by the researchers. The cabinet is not involved. We therefore do not qualify certain media on the basis of these criteria. With regard to the Urgenda judgment, Mr Rosenmöller asked me to refer to what I said in the first period. I have nothing else to add. The aim is and will continue to be to accomplish the tasks. We discussed this with each other. The Lelyline was still open, at least the question. Weights for such infrastructure projects are made in the MIRT, the Multiannual Programme Infrastructure, Space and Transport. The first reconnaissance of the MIRT showed that this connection was not very promising. The Secretary of State of IenW, together with the provinces responsible for bus transport, first examines the possibilities for an early realization of the high-quality bus connection. This is also addressed in the budgetary treatment of IenW. Mr Rosenmöller and Mrs Bredenoord asked about the implementation. Let me first say to Mrs Bredenoord that I agree that it is important to pay attention to the implementation of policy and regulation decisions. We come up with an agenda for implementation. Mr Rosenmöller asked about the risk of a new implementation drama under the Environment Act. This is an important project that simplifies and makes regulation in this area more transparent and has been developed in close consultation with stakeholders, so it has our attention. Mrs Bredenoord referred to the ESC opinion on a quota for top women. My personal opinion doesn't matter for a moment, my official support. I am standing here as Prime Minister of the entire cabinet and we are considering the ESC opinion. Mrs Bredenoord of D66 asked about the 3% innovation objective in the Lisbon programme. We have a lower objective. That's right. We have done so because of the structure of our economy. We have less manufacturing economy than average. Mrs Bredenoord also mentioned the problem of stacking. It will come back to the ESC opinion. The exploration of the youth platform goes to the Lower House at the end of the year. Then there will also be a ministerial response to the SER exploration of the youth platform. We shall look into measures in this regard. Schalk asked: can you give an explanation of the figures on abortions? Yes, that's what Minister De Jonge is going to do. Of course we monitor this closely, but Mr De Jonge will come back to it. We discussed Mrs Jorritsma's question. Then there's the motions. I've dealt with two motions before. I'm doing the second-term motions now. The first motion is that of Rosenmöller on the independent investigation into the conditions of continuity. He gets judgment Chamber, if only because there is already a majority with the signatories. Then there's the motion on the growing shortage of teachers and the threat there. It's being dissuaded. A lot of extra money has been invested in primary education. I refer to the debate. We did not agree on this in the debate either. The motion on the reduction of the livestock of the Party for Animals I would like to advise against. We want to solve the nitrogen problem. There are no taboos. The outcome may well be a smaller herd, but that is not an end in itself. The next motion is on the subsidy for biomass. That's really part of the climate agreement. So I'm gonna have to dissuade him. That really hits the heart of the Climate Agreement. Then less but robust Natura 2000 sites. First of all, I understand the content of Mr Otten. We're looking at this very critically. So I get that point. But the possibilities were examined extensively by then Secretary of State Bleker in 2011. Then it turned out it wasn't a viable path. This also has to do with the European agreements. That's why we can't use it now to solve the nitrogen problem. Strictly speaking, therefore, I have to discourage the motion because of its content, but in its scope this is part of our policy and we will continue to look very critically at what we can do there. I do not think it would be wise to make a complete list of every conceivable risk on every conceivable subject. I would therefore advise against this motion, but I would like to say that I agree with Mr Otten that we need to have a clear picture of where risks can arise. To turn that into a kind of cabinet-wide exercise on all conceivable risks is a step too far for me, but I see what Mr Otten means here. We will work in the spirit of this. I think we can agree on the significant relief, because that is what we are doing. I think he just wants to get it from extra loans. Then I refer to our first-term discussion. I must therefore discourage this motion, but I believe that we are pulling on the same side of the rope to ensure that people in the country see their burdens drop significantly. My advice to Mr Schalk would be as follows. I do not know whether the internal affairs budget will be dealt with here, or whether the motion can be held until then. If I have to advise him now, I have to say dissuade him. So perhaps Mr Schalk can continue the motion until another moment and then discuss it with the Minister for the Interior. But if he wants to be given an opinion now, I have no choice but to discourage the motion, because we are really in a certain period of time. My advice to Mr Schalk would also be to have a further discussion on the content of this matter in the Upper House as soon as possible. But again, perhaps this motion can be held until a debate on the BZK budget that we are about to have. I can't see that right now. Then there's the increase in the old-age discount. May I refer to the first-term debate and then advise against the motion? I would ask Mr Kox to hold the next motion. That's the motion on SyRI. That's under the judge now. The verdict is on January 29th. I don't want to anticipate that. Excuse me, Mr. Koffeman's motion. Sorry. I had "SP," but the motion on SyRI belongs to Koffeman. They sit there so nice and cozy side by side. My question would be to hold the motion until the ruling of 29 January. If I'm forced to give a judgment now, I can't help but dissuade her, but if she's arrested, we might be able to look into it later. Then the landlord tax for 2020 and the OSF's motion on reducing it. In my view, we want the same thing, namely to look for ways of reducing opportunities further. But in this motion it is really being laid down as an objective, and that is why I must discourage the motion, also because it is still not covered. But I think we want the same thing, namely to look for ways to further reduce the landlord's tax, also linked to policy objectives. Mr. Chairman. May I finish by saying a few words? These were the first General Reviews in the new composition with a new President, tonight and many evenings later. There were several maiden speeches: Mrs Vos and Mr Cliteur, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Otten and Mr Gerbrandy. I believe that this is a record number on an occasion such as this, namely a debate with group chairmen. I would like to thank them on behalf of the cabinet for their contribution. This also applies to all the other group chairmen, with all due respect, of course, for the fact that we cannot always agree. I would like to say, even to Mr Kox, if he leaves here disappointed tonight, that we are not done with this. There will be more debates and we will continue to seek broad support. I say that to everyone here in this Chamber, not only because otherwise we will not reach the majorities, but also because we are looking beyond those majorities for much wider acceptance than just 38 seats. The subjects that came along were different. Of course this is part of General Reviews. It went from education to security, from climate to care and from economy to foreign policy and defence. The group chairmen took note of both the desired developments in the future and the question of the enforcement and feasibility of policies and regulations, and of the quality of implementation. That was very much a common thread in the debate. In this respect, the maiden speeches have set a new tone in these considerations. But they also fit seamlessly into the best traditions of the chambre de réflexion, I also say to Mr Rosenmöller, who, of course, is a bit uncomfortable in his first big debate here. Not only does one have an eye for the human dimension, but also for the possible and the feasible. This provides a good basis for the discussion between the Cabinet and this Chamber in the coming year. I look forward to that. In that respect, I can only say that this evening has proved again for me, also in this new composition with so many new members................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Again, in this context, I would also like to thank you very much for the pleasant and substantive debate that we have had today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u630	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then we would now proceed to a 30-minute suspension and then vote on 12 motions, unless they are withdrawn or detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u631	But before that there is an order proposal from Mrs Faber, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u632	Yes, I'd like to make an order proposal. I would like to ask Members to put the motions to the vote next week so that we do not have to suspend now. Save us about an hour in our time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u633	That's an order proposal. Let me look around at the group chairmen. Can they respond on behalf of their group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u634	We have a tradition in this Chamber that we complete the General Reviews with votes. That has actually happened all the years, even at late hours in the evening. I'm sorry it's late, too. As far as I am concerned, we do not have to suspend for half an hour to think about the motions. I think we can do it much faster. If we get ten minutes for that, I think that's more than enough. Then we could be done in about 20 minutes. Otherwise we will have to start again next week and the Prime Minister will have to come this way again to listen to our fantastic explanations of vote. I think it's wise to just finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u635	We do need that suspension to make orderly lists and the piles of motions. That goes for the support. I am looking at Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u636	Yes, with all the discomfort that comes with such a first big debate in the chambre de réflexion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u637	... I'll add myself to tradition. That's a bit of a part of it. I say with Mrs Jorritsma: let us suspend as briefly as possible and vote as quickly as possible. But it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u638	Today, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u639	I fully agree with the previous speakers. Indeed, let us not suspend too long. We've already set our votes. As far as I'm concerned, ten minutes is enough. Let's vote today according to tradition. Today, Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u640	My group loves traditions. Today's votes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u641	I can last a long time, as you know from the House of Representatives. I'd like to vote now, but I'd like to... I beg your pardon? Yeah, even without it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u642	Now vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u643	Mr. Chairman. Then let's vote as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u644	Mr. Chairman. My progressive group loves breaking traditions, so we are fine with voting next week. But, of course, we're staying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u645	But you're basically voting for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u646	Mr. Chairman. It's gonna be late next week, I guess. So let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u647	Then we have had all the groups. I'm just gonna see how the mood works out. Oh, we haven't had them all yet. I would like to know from every group what it is like, because then we can see how the order proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u648	As far as I'm concerned, it could be next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u649	Next week, so you're in favour of the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u650	Mr. Chairman. Now that Tuesday's not gonna work... Better next week than Wednesday, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u651	Next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u652	Preferred to postpone, but we can also live with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u653	But you have a preference for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u654	I also have a preference for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u655	Next week. Let me see if we've had all the groups. The SP. Mr. Kox, you may be the deciding factor. You're decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u656	You must find something, unless you remember, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u657	I'll let you do it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-eerstekamer-6.u658	How much for, how much against? 38 for and 37 against if we voted on it. The order proposal has therefore been adopted. Then the vote will take place next week.
