ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u1	We now go to today's debate on the Labour Market in Balance Act, Room 35074. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u2	I'll be the first speaker to take a look. Where's my list? Mr Gijs van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the PvdA. Do you really need 30 minutes? Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr President, thank you for the beautiful poem. I'm also gonna do it in dense form today, 30 minutes, so... No, no, no. Good morning. We were done at once in time last night, so I think we're all rested. In fact, today I see only the content spokesmen sitting, so I would like to start with my input. Let's make it a good debate. It is an important debate. It is about the Labour Market Balance Act. Fifteen euros for a photo that is posted on a website. That photo was taken by a photojournalist who was trained for that purpose and made his profession. Today, now order and today delivered, free delivery. Sitting in a taxi for 15 hours, constantly driving around the streets of a city just to see if anyone wants to ride with you. And why do you do that? To get enough income as a self-employed person, to come back home, to buy groceries again and so your children can go back to school. That's the elephant in the Chamber today, Mr. Chairman. These are the many independent entrepreneurs, more than 1 million in the Netherlands, many of whom have to work and live in bad conditions, without protection against illness, without building up a pension, without any security of income that will allow you to rebuild and look forward to your life. That is actually today's big issue and also the political issue. If you are talking about a balanced labour market, we must also talk today about those more than 1 million self-employed workers, many of whom are looking for land under their feet. But that's what we're waiting for. This debate today is limited only to the workers in the country, which is also important. There are millions of them, but we cannot have that debate if we, politically and also cabinet, do not realise that we can only talk about a balanced labour market if we do something about protection and security for all workers in the Netherlands. We've wanted that for years. Why can't you do that? Where's the political blockade? Can the Minister shed some light on that? When are we going to bring that balance into the labour market, that real balance that is needed and that protection for all people in the Netherlands, for all workers in the Netherlands? So apart from this elephant in the Chamber today we are talking about an important law, the Labour Market Act in balance. There's two sides to that. On the one hand, a minister, a cabinet and a coalition who say: we must make flex work unattractive, and we do so by making it more expensive. The Labour Party also voted in favour of this. That's very important. People want that security. People want that permanent contract and not work with a flexible contract for years and therefore lead an uncertain life, so that's a good step. You'd say, "Great," and we'd be done with that. But no, the cabinet and the coalition say: on the other hand, we also want to do something about protecting the position of employees. We find that strange. The Netherlands is doing very well. Companies are looking for well-trained staff, even pulling people out of training and saying: come and work with me; I'll give you a contract. Why should we, in these times of shortages and economic prosperity, interfere with the protection of workers' dismissals? Unfortunately, the balance is negative, because we want all workers in the Netherlands to be given more protection and security. On the one hand, it is good to make flexwork less attractive, but on the other hand unnecessary in these times of prosperity to get involved in protecting people's position. Today, the Labour Party will therefore make various proposals to improve this law. You know the Labour Party: we support the proposals which are good, and we want to improve those which are less good or which even work badly. We'll do that today. Then we look at the coalition, then we look at the cabinet with the question: is that outstretched hand really worth something today? I'll start with the self-employed. As I said, we can only talk about a balanced labour market if we really do something about protecting all workers. The concern of employers' and employees' organisations is right to say: "It is good to make flex work more expensive on the one hand, but then you also have to do something about the rise of platform companies and all thosezzp structures. Otherwise, there is a chance that the effect will arise that employers who are not so good at it with their people will use thesezzp structures." In fact, even more so, and I found that remarkable, the SME President says today in De Telegraaf: we may be using thesezzp structures if this law is passed. Please understand: we want this law to go through at all costs and at the same time to be speeded up with legislation onzzp. But I find it strange that a foreman of an employers' organisation already says: perhaps I will use fakes myself. Then we'll talk about a week after the judge's ruling: Deliveroo, you're just a company and you just have to hire the people. The question to the Minister and the Cabinet is: what do you think of such an attitude on the part of SMEs? And when is the Minister going to deliver when it comes to protecting all those self-employed people in the Netherlands, who are so badly needed? Mr. Chairman. There are some good proposals in this law. One of these proposals is to tackle payrolling. Payrolling has become a construction in recent years to make people work cheaper, which means that colleagues are no longer colleagues but competitors, because you have a payroll construction.Many people know that even not even........................................................................................................................................................................... That's crazy. We do not want competitors in the workplace. We want you to be colleagues again. So it is good that the cabinet, like the Labour Party, GroenLinks and the SP in their initiative bill, chooses to make those payroll constructions more expensive. This is a good development, but one important issue is missing: pensions. The pension premium is one of the biggest cost differences between a payroll employee and an employee with a contract with his own boss. In our bill, we eliminate that difference. The question to the Minister and the question to the coalition is: are we really going to complete that first good step today to make payroll unattractive? Are we going to make sure there's no more cost difference at all? In fact, are we going to make sure that these payroll constructions are more expensive than just hiring people? That is an important question today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u4	50PLUS will support any proposal to reduce differences, so: good idea. But we'd really like to get rid of the payroll construction. Why do we still want to maintain it? Why can we not only facilitate employers as a wage company, in the sense that they take over wage production and payments? Then all we have left is temporary work and people in the service. Why should we still maintain that payroll construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's a good question. Payrolling was created for a small company, for example, that just started. That company argues as follows: I really want to work with people, I want to hire them as well, but I've just started and don't know if my company is going to be a success, so I have to go through a third payroll, which means that you hire people through a third. That was once the essence of payrolling, which I think is a good development, because it stimulates start-ups who really want to work with permanent people, without knowing if they can do so, because they may not exist in a year's time. To that essence of payrolling, we're actually bringing it back. Because if you choose payrolling in our proposal, this means that the payroll employee is more expensive than the employee being hired. The intention is to go back to the essence of payrolling: only if you really need it, for example as a starting entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u6	That start-up entrepreneur can go to a temp agency, can't he? Do I understand from this that the proposal of 50PLUS to remove this construction completely from the law cannot count on the support of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u7	We are indeed taking a different path. Payroll in its pure form, namely that it is more expensive, but that it is useful for some companies to start with, we want to make it exist. But we want to get rid of the evasive structures we've been seeing in recent years. Then you have to equalize the costs. In fact, you have to make payroll more expensive. Mr. Chairman. It is a good development that we return payroll to the essence. But we also know of another false construction, which is common in the workplace, where employers are looking for cheap constructions. That's contracting. It is a complicated word, but it is actually a form of avoiding the "equal pay, equal work" rule by temporary employment agencies in particular. That construction takes on great forms. Many people have the right concern that the moment we make payrolling more unattractive as a dodge construction, this form will increase. In an earlier debate Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg asked the Minister to do some more research on this. I would very much like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared, if that really proves to be a problem, to take action on this matter. My final point about payrolling is about the social development companies, the old SW, which has taken on new forms. We can see that these companies have concerns that these measures could cause problems for people with disabilities. The position of the Labour Party is that in this law we must make as few exceptions as possible for all sectors, because then the possibility of all kinds of dodge scenarios arises. But there is one exception, namely the social development companies. We believe that we should be aware of people with disabilities, who are often more vulnerable. We have looked closely at the law and we do not have an easy solution. However, in view of the importance of this group, which should work sustainably, I would ask the Minister to give good shape to this either through the social development company or with a regular employer and to look closely at the concerns. Maybe we are not going to get out of that today, but I would like to highlight today that we can remove that uncertainty for this group. Mr. Chairman. Then it's probation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Van Dijk says quite a lot in this last block about payrolling and worries on the one hand and on the other, where I agree and on which coalition and opposition have already said similar things in previous debates. I understand that Mr Van Dijk is saying about the bill that, if we really want to do something about payrolling, pensions must also be looked at seriously. Otherwise, there will be a wrong incentive. But you are also looking for a limited space to keep the bottom of the labour market from suffering too much, as Cedris also points out. I'm leaning towards that, too. In my opinion, it is indeed very complicated how to shape that. Does Mr Van Dijk have any ideas about this or is it really a request to the cabinet to look for something to do about it very limited, so not broad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for this question from Mr Heerma, because that is precisely my concern. We really want to look at this group and how you can put a fence around it. Because that's just the practice. I can already see a number of temporary agency companies looking at this and thinking: oh, that's a nice way, because then I can still evade the payroll legislation. That's not the point. I do not think that is at all the intention of the cabinet, from the coalition. So I would very much like to see how we can make an arrangement specifically for this group, so that they can simply work and also have clarity about their income and clarity about their working conditions. That should not change all the time, because it is the case that you can work at the post on the one hand and then in the green again. Then you don't want to get some kind of insecure income with all kinds of different conditions. That is what I am looking for, but in view of the importance of this legislation, it is really necessary for this legislation to be completely shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u10	I recognize the quest of Mr Gijs van Dijk very much. I do not think we all want this to happen again through the story of the development companies, on which I agree with Mr Van Dijk, for all other constructions that are not intended to help at all. I think many of us have been puzzled here. I don't have the exact answer yet. Could it be an idea that we should ask the Minister, whether legally or not, to create space for something, without perhaps having finished wiping out constructions that we all do not want? Because we really want to do something for the development companies, but not for the lobby of the payroll and the broadcasting industry, which I believe is also for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u11	This is exactly the essence. This is what we are asking the Minister with Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma: look at this. Perhaps that will not be today, but at the end of the day, create that clarity so that those social development companies do not get into trouble, indeed without supporting the lobby from other quarters. Mr. President, I'm on probation. That was outlawed in five months. The question is how did this ever get into the law, because fortunately we also see the coalition saying: this may not have been such a good idea. No. This was just a really bad idea. Perhaps in the first term of the Chamber we can say to each other in those five months: "We are not going to do it. Minister, get that out of the law." Then there's the chain determination. As I said earlier, the Netherlands is doing very well, there is economic prosperity, companies are screaming for people and even getting them out of training. The question now is to this Minister: why are you going back from two years of temporary contracts to three years? We actually see that the number of fixed contracts is currently increasing, that the Work and Security Act is working. This is an adjustment to that. Then why this adjustment? What's the ratio behind this? Why do we have to flex to three years now, and can't we just stick to two years? In this context, I suddenly come to a crazy pass in the Labour Market Act in balance. Because we talk about all sectors, but one sector is suddenly taken out and put into this law. Those are the primary school teachers. We know the problems in primary education. There's a lot of pressure on teachers, there's a big shortage of good teachers. It's being worked hard on all sides right now. There really needs to be a lot more. They're also going to take action in March, and rightly so. At the same time, we are going to say to the teachers in primary education: you are going to have "lifelong flexibility" and we are going to have legal rules on that. I don't understand. I know that employers and employees in primary education make good agreements with each other, namely for a maximum of three years on a temporary basis, which applies to sick and peaks and to invaders. But now we are going to legally regulate this "lifelong flexibility" for teachers. This is equally separate from the collective agreement between employees and employers. In fact, the legislator is going through that; the Council of State is right to be very critical of this. This is happening, when we actually want that certainty. We want to give them a nice salary, even better than this, and we want to give them new colleagues who also want to have that certain basis. Where's the ratio? Why are we doing this? Why do we settle this by law and not leave this to the sector itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u12	I believe that we are side by side with Mr Gijs van Dijk about the position of teachers, who fortunately also received a first substantial increase in salaries, especially in primary education. But I also know Mr Gijs van Dijk as someone who is very precise and precise and I think he has just left the corner. You can think differently about the disease regime, which actually makes a previous decision by the then Minister Asscher permanent in the legislative proposal. But it is really limited to replacements in case of illness, because we do not want children to go home in case of a flu epidemic. I always appreciate Mr Gijs van Dijk's constructive tone. He now says "everyone outlaw"; with all due respect, I think that's bullshit. I would ask him to do that more precisely. That's how I know him. I thought this was a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u13	It wasn't easy; this was my concern. It was also my surprise, as was that of the Council of State. Why are we going to settle this legally if we've just managed to work things out nicely in the sector? That is the question to D66, but above all to the Minister: why are we going to regulate it legally? They're fine on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u14	Of course, Mr Gijs van Dijk can ask any question he wants. I also understand the question, but he said consciously twice: all teachers outlawed in flex. That's, with all due respect, not what that law says. Mr Gijs van Dijk knows that too. I know him as someone who formulates very accurately and carefully, so I would appreciate it if he says he's critical of an arrangement that deals with what you do in case of illness. It is not at all a matter of general rules being abandoned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'm sticking to my words. I point out the danger that if you regulate this legally, you'll make flexibility infinite, while in the sector they just make neat agreements with each other. I think that is what we attach to it. We recognize the problems which Mr Van Weyenberg also supports. You're definitely dealing with illness and incursion. But why should we now legislate for one particular sector? That is a fair question for me. I therefore believe that we can delete this right away. Mr. Chairman. I come to the interim between temporary contracts. The Minister is given the opportunity to shorten the interval between temporary contracts. The question is why the Minister has this opportunity. That time is not for nothing, because we want to avoid a revolving door. That takes the interval between temporary contracts. Why did the Minister make this proposal? A very specific question, which is of some importance, is what the Minister will do with the advice of the Labour Foundation. Because I think it is the line that the Labour Foundation is being asked for an opinion at the time of departure. The Labour Foundation will then have to give a unanimous opinion to the Minister, who will then take over the Minister. Or can the Minister depart from this unanimous opinion and also take its own decision without the Labour Foundation or with a divided opinion? This is important, as this goes through the sectoral consultation and also the importance of the Labour Foundation to monitor the agreements made between employers and employees. Let me get this straight. Mr. Chairman. Then the fire protection. I was just saying that there are some good parts in this law, but why would you start mortaring people's fire protection now? The core of the protection against dismissal is that employers remain in good conversation with their employees, even when things are bad. The moment you see that things are bad or that the ratio is bad, you build up a file and talk to people. The law then offers the possibility to finally come to the conclusion that it is no longer possible. That's how it works. That is how it works at the moment, as we heard from various quarters during the hearing. The cabinet and the coalition choose to be able to fire people on multiple grounds. It's called the cumulation ground. I know that this has been the wish of employers for some time now, but it should not, as far as we are concerned, make it easier to obtain an easier right of dismissal without a dossier and without a good conversation with people. People's positions must be protected. I actually see a looming error in this law. Because if you choose not to fire people on one ground but on several grounds, you should refer them to judges. The judges must therefore be given the responsibility to determine whether the file is in order and what the position of the employee was, in order to ultimately determine: you can break up; employer, you must pay the following amount. That's how it was actually arranged for the Work and Security Act. Since you're allowed to fire on several grounds, I think it's perfectly reasonable to say that this is up to the judges. During the hearing, several judges also argued in favour of this. The cabinet chooses to maximize the dismissal allowance at one and a half times. My substantive question is why the Minister does that. If the Minister chooses to apply these multiple grounds, he should also give the judges the freedom to decide on the situation of the employees concerned, on the relationship and on the file, and also give the judges the freedom to determine the remuneration and the level of dismissal. Suppose you're 55 years old and you're fired. Then I think that the judge should take a good look at what is going on for this gentleman or the lady and perhaps increase the compensation a little, so that the person concerned does not end up in the assistance because he or she simply has to work for another 12 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u16	If that cumulation ground, as it is technically called, is used, this legislative proposal will allow judges to do between 0% and 50% extra on top of the transition fee, depending on the strength of the file. The employers didn't want that. They did not want to pay extra, but we are doing so with this bill, and my group also thinks that this is sensible. In the hearing, Mrs Ulrici, who is a canton judge, said that if you made it even higher, I would agree to more things that I am rejecting now. What I do not fully understand about Mr Van Dijk's plea is that he is actually saying that the increase in the cumulation ground is still too rigid. On the basis of the bill, a judge will say about some cases: we're not going to dissolve them. But Mr Van Dijk says: give judges more room so that they can also dissolve those redundancies. I think this is an almost atypical debate between the Labour Party and my party. But that is Mr Van Dijk's plea: make sure that judges can dissolve more cases. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u17	This has been nicely tried by Mr Van Weyenberg, but it does not work that way. In the end, of course, you will have to have judges who, on the basis of their grounds and their justification, can determine whether or not there is dissolution. If there are multiple grounds to look at, I also think... It is very arbitrary to say from a political point of view: that means that you should be allowed to reimburse the redundancy allowance no more than one and a half times. I find that very arbitrary. That is also a kind of political border, because why not twice, twice, two and a half times or four times? If employers choose to use that cumulation ground, and judges have the expertise to see if there is any dissolution at all, then I think you should also give judges the opportunity to say in exceptional situations: you really have to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u18	I find it quite remarkable that Mr Van Dijk is actually asking for a further relaxation of the right of dismissal. Mrs Ulrici, a canton judge, said in that consultation: I will not dissolve unless you give me more room. Mr Keulaerds, who is sitting in the public gallery, said: 'wait a minute, I think it is wise that the cabinet should not do so, because this will allow for a proper weighting between cases where the judgment is 'dissolved with an additional fee' and cases where the judge says no.' Mr Van Dijk wants to give judges more time to dissolve. I would say that is allowed, if it is reasonable to add up to 50%, but above that we do not dissolve. I think that's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u19	As I said earlier, Mr Van Weyenberg is turning it around. He pretends that this is a relaxation of the right of dismissal, but it is absolutely not. This bill eases the right of dismissal. We say: if you do so, give judges the freedom to rule on several grounds. The first basic question is always: is there even a dissolution or not? But if there really is an unworkable situation, the employer is not in order and dissolution is possible, then you have to give the judge the room to say: you are really going to pay. I am paying particular attention to the position of older workers in particular. That's really my big concern, because that concern is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u20	Very briefly, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'll ask you a yes-no question. Can Mr Van Dijk confirm that the canton judges in the round table we had said: if you move the border further towards Mr Van Dijk's proposal, then we will dissolve more often? That's just what Mrs Ulrici said, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u22	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr Van Dijk and I are having a debate that my party also had in the previous period with then Minister Asscher, now chairman of the PvdA, on the adaptation of the WWZ. I would like to admit that the modernisation of the right of dismissal in the previous period has been a very important step. We supported them, too. But I have always pointed out the risk in those debates. This broad bill, the SAB, improves the right of dismissal compared to an important step taken in the previous period. It is not about the whole of the law, it is about an adaptation of a part which, in my opinion, was already a problem at the time. I'd still like to come back to the hearing we had. Mr Keulaerds, who is indeed here, indicated that it is a limited adjustment of the WWZ, because it is a limited additional fee. If you don't maximize it, then you run the risk, which the FNV is very afraid of, that a lot of things...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u24	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u25	... to be disbanded by the judge, while the files are not good at all. Do you not share what Mr Keulaerds said, namely that precisely because it is Maximized, it is not the case that everything is dissolved through the courts, even if the file is very bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u26	I think there are two things that are mixed up. To understand each other as well: it remains that the file needs to be in order, even if you want to fire on several grounds. Then you'll still have to prove that to a judge. That's part one. I think we agree on that. But if the judge then says "on this basis I can dissolve," then I do think that the judge should be aware of the personal circumstances of the employee concerned. Then I think it is only right that you give the judge the freedom to say: on the basis of the position and situation of the employee concerned, I come to the following compensation. I'm afraid that's the effect if you're gonna maximize it, that some people really end up in uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u27	So I think it is a sensible adjustment to the right direction in the previous period. But again, the FNV says: we don't just want it to go through the courts. That is a little in line with the amendment tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent: we are not doing it at all. That's the line that the FNV emits. They don't want it at all. I think it's a sensible adjustment. But there have been many participants in the hearing, experts, who said: yes, the adjustment is sensible, but precisely because you maximize it, isn't it a huge change compared to the previous period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u28	We're kind of repeating the points of view here. On the one hand, you just want a good file to be built. That's not gonna happen. On the other hand, we have an eye for the position of the workers who are not in a good position. We also call on you to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u30	So give the judge the room to do that. That is why, with the SP, we have also tabled the amendment in question to improve the protection of dismissals on this point as far as we are concerned. Mr President, on this point. Has the Minister also perhaps looked at the difference between small and large firms with their own HR departments, which should have that file in order and should not need that cumulation basis at all? Perhaps a solution was also sought to help this very small SME with four people, should there be a problem in the employment relationship with employees? And is the Minister prepared to evaluate this, if necessary? In fact, our fears are somewhat different from those of D66 and the CDA that the use of that cumulation ground should now eliminate the workers who may eventually be dismissed with too low a transition fee and a worrying situation. Is the Minister prepared to look into that? Then I come to making flex more expensive. That's about the WW premium. That's a hell of a proposal. That is what we support. I just have a question for the construction and infrastructure sectors, in particular, which I have asked for attention to be given to the sectors which are doing very well. So they will actually be punished in their premium for their good behavior from a good measure taken by the Minister now. Does the Minister have a solution for that? Because they are doing well, they actually have a disadvantage of this good measure. I think it's difficult, but I'd still like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the call agreements. It is good that the Minister wants to give the call force a better position, because even as a call force you have little certainty when it comes to your situation and whether you are going to earn enough. So that's a good thing. The Minister chooses those four days. Is the Minister prepared to extend this deadline? Because if you have to combine care, care or another job, those four days might be complicated. The position of call forces to claim their rights is not very strong either. So the question is whether they are going to make use of this. What does the Minister intend to do to improve that position of call forces? Then, logically, I'll join the zero-hour contracts as well. I was just talking about it: if you improve payroll, namely by making it more expensive, the escape route is contracting. We can see that already. I said, "What's the Minister gonna do about it?" But if you improve the position of call forces, the flight is also possible to zero-hour contracts. And people with a zero-hour contract have lasting uncertainty. What is the Minister going to do about the position of people with a zero-hour contract? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to lifelong learning. That's also important. We want everyone to keep an eye on their own education, especially in a labour market that is changing enormously and where robotisation is hitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u31	Maybe you can finish your sentence before anyone interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u32	I think this is the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u34	This is my last block, Chairman. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u36	Training costs within their own organisation must now be offset against the transition fee, but training costs for their own function, for example, are something for employers. Why would you have to set it against the employee's own transition fee? I also believe that the employer has a responsibility to simply invest in the job and that this should not be deducted from the final transition fee for the employee. Those are just costs for the employer. How does the Minister feel about that? It's also a dependency relationship. To what extent can you say no to a certain education because you don't want it to count? I told you, that technology is moving faster and faster. Education is becoming increasingly important. Investing by the employer in training is important. Now the training costs can be deducted from the transition fee up to five years ago. I think that's a long time, because you need new knowledge all the time. The knowledge and training of five years ago are obsolete. Is the Minister prepared to look at that term? It is logical that you include certain education in your own transition allowance, but it seems to be a bit all education and also for a period that is quite long as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I started with "the labour market in balance" and that very large group of workers who are currently looking for protection, security and the opportunity to build a life. You can't talk about "a labour market in balance" if you don't do something about protecting all workers in the Netherlands. That is why this is a part of the work, this Labour Market Act in balance, which we believe to be good parts of, but it is absolutely unnecessary to be involved in the protection of dismissals and in the position of people. I therefore call on the cabinet and the coalition: if you really want to work on that labour market in balance, we will have to work tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to protect the self-employed. The next step is to tackle companies that do not comply with Dutch labour law; there was a big fuss about companies like Deliveroo and Uber here in the Chamber. Only then will we have a real balance in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think Mr Wiersma was the first. Welcome back, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u38	Where were you, by the way? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u39	I can tell you that there is so much great technique that I have listened to Mr Van Dijk completely. So maybe I wasn't visible but I was very invisible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u40	There.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u41	But I'm visible now, I hope. That gives me the opportunity to ask a question about what Mr Van Dijk has just said. He was talking about call contracts and zero-hour contracts. The success of new rules is also that there are sometimes exceptions. We now also hear stories from specific entrepreneurs who offer seasonal work. For example, they have a beach tent or grow strawberries. We heard it in the hearing, too. My question to Mr Van Dijk is whether he sees the problem with them as well. They do not have this permanent job as an option, but they do not want to be unnecessarily expensive because they do have a job to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u42	This discussion repeats itself. After all, we also had them at the Work and Security Act. The question with this kind of legislation is how many exceptions you want to make. I'm not in favour of many legal exceptions, so by law. What I am in favour of is also what happened in the previous law. The great tradition is that, if there is a problem in a sector or in companies, employers and employees, then they sit together. This was also the case in agriculture in the previous period. They make agreements with each other and say: we are going to implement this on the basis of this law. So I have an eye for the interests of companies: can you shape your business operations and does your business have a future? But we must not let worrying messages scare us now. If a problem is to arise, leave it to collective bargaining partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u43	I hear Mr Van Dijk saying two things. On the one hand, he doesn't want us to have new rules and make all kinds of exceptions right away, so that we can overthrow those rules again. I get that. On the other hand, he wants to offer room for manoeuvre if, even with justice, exceptions may have to be made. He believes that collective bargaining parties can do that. Is he indeed prepared to offer the possibility, specifically with regard to the call for tenders, that collective bargaining parties could make their own arrangements on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u44	No, I don't want to give a pass in that sense right now. The last road I found was a very nice road. As collective bargaining partners say that they have a problem and that they want to solve it as follows, you then submit it to the Labour Foundation. These are employers and workers at national level. There it will be checked whether the solution is in line with the law and its purpose. So I'd like to see safety in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u45	In recent years, PvdA spokesmen have said very often in debates that the problem is on the labour market: fixed is too firm and flex is too flexible. I can still hear Mrs Vermeij say it. At the same time, you can see in the polder that employers say: "only is too firm" is the problem. And unions say only "flex is too flex" is the problem. How does Mr Van Dijk view this at meta level, apart from the level of action? Does it still apply: fixed is too fixed and flex is too flex?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u46	With all due respect to my colleagues in earlier periods, and especially to Mrs Vermeij, I particularly see the problem of flex being too flexible, which has major disadvantages for people's lives. I also see the enormous opportunities to evade employers. We have already mentioned the SME President, who says: via zzp. I don't see the problem in "fast is too solid." I did see a problem, with Mrs Vermeij, in the payment of wages. I believe that many smaller companies have rightly expressed concerns about this. That pay-as-you-go is a real problem, and that is what happens when people are hired. That's settled now. That has always been my part of the solution to meet employers in SMEs. We say: yes, you have a problem there; we see that and that is now, fortunately, resolved politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u47	When the PvdA was in the coalition in the previous period, she said: solid and flex is too flexible, and therefore the labour market is in imbalance. The CDA was in the opposition at the time and said exactly the same thing. It remains that there are still barriers for SMEs to give someone a permanent contract. If we really want to find solutions to the labour market, I would like Mr Van Dijk to acknowledge both. I understand that he sees balance difference and that "flex is too flex" may be the biggest problem in his view, but both acknowledge that "flex is too solid" is too solid and flex is too flex... is the only way to restore balance on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u48	That was a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u49	Well, for a moment, Mr. Chairman, because this is where we find each other. Mr Heerma rightly spoke about SMEs. I did not ask for nothing about the small employers, for example, in the case of dismissal. So that's where we find each other, because that's what I really think; I can go a long way with that. That is another problem than large companies complaining that it is too firm, because that is really nonsense in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. Then I will go to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out that at least the position of the PvdA on this between coalition and opposition may be a little too flexible. But all that aside. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an important law, the Labour Market Act in balance. That is a balance to be restored. And Mr Gijs van Dijk is quite right to say that this is wider than today's law; I shall come back to that in detail. It is, of course, also about self-employed people without staff, and I certainly also found the measures relating to sickness pay, which came just before Christmas, real profit. Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps a good thing to answer the question: why this law, which indeed both employers' and employees' organisations are angry at? I get the impression that the employers are perhaps even more disgruntled at the moment than the trade union movement. Given the content, I might even be able to follow some of that. For this law came on the initiative of politics because, unfortunately, after years of talking, the polder failed to reach a compromise. Unfortunately, there was a standstill. There the shooter pits were too deep and the space to come out together was too small. That is a pity, and that is why I think it is particularly good that politics, the cabinet, should take its own responsibility here. Because, Mr President, there is balance to be restored on the labour market. Flex is too flex. It is going very well on the labour market and yet you can see that the share of employees with a flex contract is still increasing in terms of temporary contracts, call contracts, zero-hour contracts and pay-rolling contracts. After the past many years of economic recovery, the trend of ever fewer contracts for an indefinite period continues. In 2004, around 84% of employees still had contracts for an indefinite period, which has now become 72%. That's a trend we have to reverse, because it affects people. People are stuck in temporary contracts for longer and longer. They find that while the work is stuck, they are always on a temporary contract, because the employer does not dare to give them an indefinite contract. So when they assumed that they were supposed to be exchanged for someone else in two years' time. Very frustrating. As a result, you can sometimes not go on to buy your own house, which you want so much, or maybe even start a family. It is therefore a good thing that this law brings about a substantial change in this respect. Mr. Chairman. The issue of the self-employed without staff is certainly also important, but I would like to stress that, above all, workers with flex contracts are very dissatisfied. They experience a lot of uncertainty, while on average manyzzp'ers are more satisfied than people with permanent jobs. They find the work-private distribution less pleasurable. They are concerned and simply less satisfied with their work. In my view, the problem is particularly urgent for all employees with flex contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u52	I am so curious to see what D66 reads differently than 50PLUS, which makes Mr Van Weyenberg think that security has now improved. All I see is that we go from a two-year contract to a three-year contract. After that, people still get out. Wouldn't it be much better for an employer, if he knows something is structural, to see if someone works well in a year and then gives a contract for unpaid time? We shall be asking the Minister this question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u53	I think that is exactly where we want to go, but to get there, we are doing some very good things in this law as far as I am concerned. We make flex more expensive and probably cheaper through the WW premium. We're turning the rules on call work and payrolling very much so that there's less cost advantage there. I really think that we can strengthen the balance between firm and flexible. This is precisely why the small SME entrepreneur is dared again. Someone who thinks payroll's cheaper will see that it's not anymore. There are therefore a number of measures, some of which have come about at the same time as a number of initiatives taken by a number of other parties. I think they're really gonna help restore balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u54	We don't see that yet. I think this is D66's wishful thinking. I'd really like it to come out, because I'm giving people more certainty. That should also be the goal. Doesn't D66 think we're going farther and that everyone is being pushed towards false self-employment by this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u55	The first question is whether I expect this to help the balance between employees. I think this will help. We're gonna monitor that. I note that Minister Asscher's previous law, which contained a great deal of good, did not in any case help to restore the balance between fixed and flexible workers. We do not yet see that in the figures. Unfortunately, that trend down hasn't stopped. We both don't think that's happy. The second question is whether the route to zzp goes when we turn off all these other forms; thank you for the compliment. That is a legitimate concern and I will come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u56	I am very curious how Mr Van Weyenberg can justify how it helps to keep employees waiting a year longer for a certain contract when he says that there should be less flex and less uncertainty. Now it's two years, but if it's up to Mr Van Weyenberg, it's going to be three years. How is that going to ensure greater security for employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u57	Then I'm gonna take one step back. This was a tightening up of the Work and Security Act. It was supposed to speed you up getting a steady job. The conclusion is that that didn't happen. It has happened for some people, namely for people with a good labour market position. Maybe that's more people with high education or it's because of crappy. It worked for them. But a lot of people employers didn't think of "who has very specific knowledge" didn't benefit at all. Mostly, they knew they were getting out a year earlier. I don't think that law helped, no matter how noble its purpose was. In that sense, I can imagine something about that adjustment. It is not my biggest success in this law and it is not from my election programme, but I note that the idea behind the Work and Security Act to go from three years to two years, which would have caused permanent jobs like roast chickens to fall into our mouths, has unfortunately not come true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u58	I am very curious to know where that idea comes from if it is not from D66, but that aside. If we want to give people more certainty, but instead keep them waiting a year longer for a fixed contract, is that not in any relation to the other measures of this law? I would like to help Mr Van Weyenberg a little with his confidence. We are going to arrange for flex work for the employer to become more expensive and permanent work to be cheaper and also that the dismissal allowance will apply from day one. These were two major shortcomings in Mr Asscher's flex law. If we take these measures, is it going to result in employers not going to employ people for two years and then to fire them, because it is simply much more expensive in the longer term? Let us have that self-confidence, and let us remove that silly, silly measure to keep people waiting a year longer for a certain contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u59	I also know a lot of employers who do give a permanent contract after a year. I see, on the contrary, that those who have a somewhat less strong position on the labour market now have the certainty that they will leave after two years rather than after three years. That law really didn't bring what I had hoped for. I would also like to thank Mr Van Kent for complimenting him on a number of aspects of this law. Moreover, some of these elements are part of your party's own initiative laws, so I really hope that we will be able to agree with each other in this respect today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u60	Finally, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u61	These proposals were already included in Mr Ulenbelt's initiative law from many years ago, but that aside. In my view, it is a matter of finding ways of not making it attractive for employers to fire people after two or three years. That's why we're gonna be organizing severance payments from day one. That is why, through the WW grant, we oppose the hiring of only flex workers. If we take these measures, is it really crazy to have so little self-confidence and to assume so little that these measures will work that we say immediately: we give the employer and thus also the employee only a third year of uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u62	Once again, I assume that these measures will result in employers increasingly simply offering contracts for an indefinite period of time. Especially from the group that now leaves after two years, part of it gets a permanent job. In addition, we can prevent some of them from getting out on the street. Because the effect of the Work and Security Act was really that a group of people knew one thing for sure: after two years I'm out!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u63	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's search for a balance on the labour market from D66. We are now talking about the two-year and three-year constructions. He made it very clear that it didn't come from the tube of D66. It probably came from one of the other coalition parties. I am now asking Mr Van Weyenberg very clearly to get into the skin of an employer or an employee. What does an employer see happening now? He sees that there is an extension from two to three years. Then the decision time goes to three years and not to one year, like the few employers Mr Van Weyenberg knows. No, it goes to three years. And then there's the employee's position. Mr Van Weyenberg has to get into the worker's skin for a while. He sees that he doesn't get a permanent contract after two years but only after three years. How can Mr Van Weyenberg say that this will provide greater security for the worker, particularly at the bottom of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u64	There are two elements. One. I guess a group gets a permanent contract sooner. I think and hope that with this law and with measures such as pay-as-you-go payment, making flex more expensive and removing the transition fee from day one, employers are now waiting longer with the contract for an indefinite period of time. Two. I note that a group of workers already know: I do not get a permanent job; I leave after two years. I hope to seduce employers with this law and call upon them to do so earlier. There are many employers who do not wait the two years, but at the same time the reduction from three to two years has not really worked. The only point I have made is that this measure does not come out of my election programme. I'm very open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u65	"It's not from my election program," is a very honest answer. But then Mr Van Weyenberg needs a lot of words to defend it. I have caught Mr Van Weyenberg using the word 'hope' twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'll give it to everyone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u67	He said: I hope this will happen and I hope that will happen. I believe that workers, particularly at the bottom of the labour market, have very little to gain from the hopes expressed by Mr Van Weyenberg behind the chair. The facts are of use to them. When we look at the facts, we just see very clearly that employers are putting the decision at the last minute. There may be something different for a group of employers, but for the majority the decision is postponed for a year. The consequence is that workers have to wait longer. Does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u68	I would like to give hope to everyone, including Mr Kuzu, and I can reassure him that this is also an expectation. So on the other hand, we always have to show this first. I'm assuming we're monitoring this law carefully. I also had hope and expectation of the Work and Security Act. This has not yet resulted in an end to the reduction in fixed-term contracts. For a group of people, I hope Mr Kuzu agrees with me on this. We have seen that going back from three to two years in the Work and Security Act meant one thing, namely certainty. Indeed, certainty, but above all the certainty that you left a year earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u69	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u70	On the other hand, to speak with Mr Van Weyenberg, there is a very different group. I think that group is a little bigger than the group D66's talking about. Can we perhaps agree on the following? I've been in the Chamber too long to see that evaluations make sure that these kinds of fundamental things are changed. Can we then agree that we do not do this after five years, but that after two years we do a brief inventory of the results of the measure? We can then, on the basis of this, possibly still in this cabinet period, depending, of course, on whether or not this coalition is going to hold out, but that is another very different discussion within a year or two years. Then let's look at the numbers and see if it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u71	I'm in favour of always looking at the numbers around work. In fact, that's why this bill is there and we didn't wait for the evaluation. So I'm assuming we're holding our finger on the wrist. In all honesty, I don't always need a law review for that. Let me turn it around: if we do not succeed in reversing this trend of declining stocks of fixed contracts and more employees with flex contracts in this time of high-class economy with this law, we have a major problem with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u72	I have just indicated that more uncertainty as a measure against more uncertainty is, of course, silly. But aside from that... We haven't even evaluated that last flex law. I hear Mr Van Weyenberg saying that people in a number of sectors with those two years out of that previous law knew for sure that they would be out after two years. But we haven't even checked to see if that's true. We haven't even figured out what else to do. Is Mr Van Weyenberg prepared to retain this part of the law, a year longer uncertainty for many employees in the Netherlands, until we have looked carefully at how this previous flex law has worked and what adjustments are needed to our labour law? If that evaluation has taken place, let us see if it is still necessary to apply that third year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u73	I'm not prepared to do that. Then we'll wait again, and I think we've waited long enough. I think it is very good that politics is now assuming its responsibilities, with a very wide range of measures. I know that a very large number of them can also count on Mr Van Kent's approval. As far as I'm concerned, we're not gonna wait for that. To be honest, I feel more at home with Mr Kuzu: if things don't work, you shouldn't sit on your hands for five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u74	Those who are about to wait are employees, because they will have to wait another year from D66 for that certain contract to work in uncertainty for a year longer. So let us take that time to see if the previous flex law has failed on that point. Let's see how it works out when we make it expensive for employers to employ people over and over again for two years and then fire them. We do that by setting up redundancy allowances from day one. There's no such thing now. That's gonna come later. We do this by asking for a higher WW premium from the employer for employees with uncertain contracts. Let's see how that works. If it turns out that doesn't work enough, let's see what else is needed. But this is the reversed world. Fighting uncertainty with uncertainty is silly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u75	I have a great deal of faith in it. I will not use the word "hope" anymore. I also hope that the economy will remain good for a while. I think that is the proof of the pudding, I say to Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u76	Proceed, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said, many employees with a flexible contract are generally less satisfied with their work and experience much more uncertainty. This makes them, on average, a different group than self-employed people, who are generally satisfied and think the work-private balance is good. But it's absolutely true that this law isn't gonna do it on its own. Before the turn of the year, as I said, there was an agreement on the payment of wages in the event of sickness, and at the same time there was no reduction in incapacity for work. I thought that was a very nice package. You will not be surprised, because, yes, I am really convinced that we also need to make this permanent job more accessible, not only by tackling flex, but also by ensuring that an SME too is afraid to give it a much more permanent job. In doing so, the law we are dealing with today helps pay-as-you-go in case of illness. Mr Gijs van Dijk rightly said it, and it was already in the interruptions: you will also have to look at the self-employed. Deliveroo has been mentioned here a lot. There is still a great deal of work to be done, and it is quite complicated. The Minister is working on a minimum rate. Underneath, you're an employee. That really puts a lot of ground in that market, because that is what I think philosophy is about. We are going to give real independent entrepreneurs more space to undertake, but we are going to do something about groups that are not really entrepreneurs but are forced into them. In that light, I was very interested in a piece of two economists from the Authority for Consumer and Market, who argue that preventing social dumping can be a reason for allowing price fixing. Earlier, several members of this house, including myself, have indicated "why should a group of self-employed people not work together and create counterpower?" I don't want the union to decide on them, but let them decide for themselves, let them organise themselves counterpower. The strike of the photographers was also cited earlier. The ACM was always very critical of that. Is that a breakthrough now, I ask the Minister, and does this offer opportunities, including in the dossier? Mr. Chairman. Then we must also have a more fundamental debate, for example on the business agreement, a separate legal status. I am pleased that the Committee on the Future of Work is going to look very explicitly at this too. And yes, of course we are also looking at the bill. I really hope the Minister can do something at the bottom. European law is all complicated, I understand that, but the balance sheet requires us to do something there. The Minister is working hard on that. I'm gonna ask him if he can go into a little more detail on the timetable. I see Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u78	Yeah, I can see that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u79	This is really an essential point. It's about the independent entrepreneurs. This morning the CBS came up with figures that 40% of the self-employed do not pay income tax. So we're actually losing a lot of income, but we're also losing part of our social system. Now I hear Mr Van Weyenberg expressing the same concern, but then about a committee that has to report somewhere at the end of this year. We would like to come forward with measures tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Why is this so complicated and does D66 want to get on with it, so that, so to speak next week or the following week, we can really talk about real plans, rather than all kinds of ambitions, which we also support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u80	I've been talking about that committee. It is about a much more fundamental debate, which we think we should also have, about labour law: can you still keep employees and self-employed people apart; do authority relations still work in an increasingly fluid labour market? But I fully share Mr Van Dijk's impatience, because I want to protect vulnerable people better in the philosophy of the coalition agreement at the bottom and on the other hand I want to help real self-employed people, because they were affected by that DBA Act. We shouldn't forget that either. That bill's being worked on. That is why I am asking the Minister: what is the situation? I would also like to ask him whether the judgment of the judge in the case of Deliveroo, if it holds, will, of course, give the Minister and the Labour Inspectorate more scope for enforcement. I would say that to Mr Van Dijk. I know that goes for him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u81	We live in some sort of no man's land. The concern is now also with the broadcasting sector, which says that these platform companies are growing like coal and the legislator is only coming after it very slowly. The question is whether you can still contain it, if you can still make it just. We also watched Deliveroo together. We have also said that the tax administration must maintain; 100 companies on a list, which we are going to maintain. To date, I believe there is a no-man's-land, even when it comes to maintaining it. So we talk about that, we have ambitions. But couldn't we at least take a step? 'Cause the DBA Act had to and should be off the table. The tax authorities would be in place for that, but I hear from all sides: there is no enforcement, there is no compliance, there is no appeal to a company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u82	I recognize Mr Gijs van Dijk's 100. What the score is, is a bit outside the scope of this bill, but it is very relevant that you also do something about thezzp'ers. I fully share the impatience. That is why my question is: does that court ruling really offer more enforcement opportunities, for example? I'll say "if it holds up," because I believe there's still an appeal. Mr. Chairman. Apart from the self-employed, where we want to make that distinction better, a no-man's land is not good. That's a concern that I think lives Chamberwide. If we're gonna price flex better, aren't we gonna get a flight to other, new constructions? Aren't the smart guys always one step ahead of us? Is there not always a new lowest point sought in the labour market? I have asked questions about it before, but I see some worrying developments in the broadcasting sector, for example. I see forms of contracting, where I sometimes wonder if that is not just meant to save costs. I see shopping between collective agreements. It is also very complicated: this collective agreement is sometimes very difficult. I see examples where it seems as if it is well regulated in the broadcasting sector, but where you never really enter the next stage of protection, because you are parked in the WW for a while. It seems as if after a year and a half there is more chance of a better, more extensive pension in the temporary employment sector, but some temporary employment agencies are building a structure with employers that just never gets in there as a temp because they're just gonna throw you out for a while and get you back to zero. I see examples in the meat industry, in which just legal holidays were not paid out. I asked questions about this with Mr Heerma. How's the minister looking at this? I'm worried about it. I am going to call on the Minister to look at this in greater depth in the second term. We really need to separate the chaff from the chaff. We must anticipate possible new constructs, now that we are tightening the reins in flexwork. How does the minister look at that market? Does he recognize the image that employers sometimes think: 'Oh, for that employee ten others; are you going to complain; you dare not?' What can you do about it? Does the Minister recognise the image of the FNV and the Inspection SZW that employees often do not dare to complain to their employer because they feel so vulnerable? They say, "If I get my right, I'm out." Does the Minister recognise that collective agreements are becoming increasingly difficult, because some work is very difficult to classify in a particular sector? Then they shop: where is it cheapest? I would like to hear a comment from the Minister on this. Mr President, then more concretely to the law. As far as I am concerned, the analysis underlying this law is broadly shared. Fixed contracts are perceived as too unattractive and too risky, especially by SMEs. At the same time, there are many forms of flex that are often mainly cheap. There is a lot in the law that I think the left-wing parties in this Chamber can also be very satisfied with. Mr Van Kent mentioned a number of them. I refer to the fact that payroll workers will be subject to the same conditions on primary and secondary working conditions. They're just gonna be covered by regular dismissal law. Callers are given more rights and more certainty about times when they can and cannot be called in and when they can be paid. We're gonna build the transition fee from day one. It is now cheaper for an employer to hire three people for two years and then say goodbye to one person for six years. That, of course, is simply the wrong incentive and therefore does not lead to the desired behavior. In the premium differentiation in the WW we are going to ensure that flexible contracts become very much more expensive than contracts for an indefinite period of time. The average ratio will be a premium of about 7.5% for flex contracts and 2.7% for open-ended contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u83	I'm going to look for some improvements. We're on probation for five months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u84	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u85	But I think I know what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u86	That's special.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u87	Yeah, some people do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u88	Predictive gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u89	I also said we should improve something in the payroll. The motion of the bill is good, but if you don't take the cost of pensions, you're actually taking half a measure. Is D66 gonna take care of those pensions today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u90	I'm getting to that so much. I can now give the answer 'yes' very briefly, but I understand that you are not satisfied with that. This subject is very precise. I'm going to say something very precise about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u91	Then Mr Gijs van Dijk also has the opportunity to ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned the call forces. I think he agrees with us that they are in a very vulnerable position. They can't force anything easily. The question is whether we should make it easier for these call forces. If people have worked continuously as a call force for a year, they must automatically be given a contract of employment for the average number of hours they have worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think this law states that you are entitled to a contract of employment for the average duration of the last 12 months if you have worked for 12 months. I think the bill is very close to Mrs Van Brenk's wish, unless she proposes a different legal form. I can't quite see that. If that's the case, I'm just gonna take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u94	This law states that the employer must make an offer. But the question is whether they are going to do so and whether a call force is in his or her right so that he or she can enforce it. Our question is whether this cannot be done automatically so that it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u95	I think we can at least agree on the goal. You ask if another instrument is not more effective. I'm curious about the Minister's response. I think we're pulling the same rope, but I'm sure there's not gonna be no excuse for choosing this shape. I hope that Mrs Van Brenk is satisfied with the fact that the direction in which you are entitled after 12 months is already in this law. I am curious to hear the Minister's response to her clarification. We must also ensure that employers dare to return to that permanent job. One of the ideas for that is probation. Isn't it an interesting idea to say: if you give a contract for an indefinite period of time straight away, that comes almost never for a period of time, then you may use a somewhat longer probationary period? This is a kind of innovative way of trying to seduce employers to immediately give a contract for an indefinite period of time. I find that an interesting idea in terms of starting point. Let's be honest: a fixed contract at once is almost non-existent. If this were to help, I'd find that an interesting development. At the same time, I also see the concern. If you do this, for example on a five-month probation period, it will be constructed on that. I've asked a lot of questions, and that actually applies to the whole Chamber. Can you sever that risk? When I look at the answers, I am far from convinced of them. I understand the objective of more contracts for an indefinite period of time already in the first contract, which the proposal is limited to, but I think the risk is simply too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u96	I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg says this. There has been a lot of criticism of this, even at the hearing we had. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this subject together with the SP and the PvdA. The amendment is now being adjusted so that we really go back to the situation as it is now. I would like to know from Mr Van Weyenberg how he stands with regard to that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u97	I'll wait and see. If you write it down like that, my group will support it. I say here that if we close this route, I understand that we all have a responsibility to make that fixed contract truly more attractive to employers. I am not asking for support for some of the measures here, but I do think that we should achieve that. The background was a search to ensure that people are offered the contract more quickly for an indefinite period of time. Then this was indeed not the form, but I do think that we should look together for ways to do so. I hope that Mr Smeulders will do the same. Less flex is good, but we must also ensure that this permanent job is better accessible and that SMEs dare to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u98	This debate is too much fun not to have. I'd be happy to accept the invitation. I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg says that we should make fixed contracts more attractive to employers. I can't wait to hear his argument. Do the proposals in the Labour Market Act also make fixed contracts attractive to employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u99	In fact, the goal is for more employees to get that contract. That is precisely the problem in the current situation. I can see from the current situation that an increasing proportion of employees - I am not talking about self-employed workers - have a temporary contract, a call contract or a payroll contract. This is what we are trying to adapt with a whole range of measures to make flex work a little more expensive and improve workers' rights, so that employers have less interest in entering those routes and it is less a purely cost-benefit. In my view, these are all measures which you support in terms of direction. But I think we should also make sure that this SME's dare. I believe that the measures contained in this package, such as lower WW premium for a fixed contract, will help. The ultimate goal is to increase the chances of a contract for an indefinite period of time. I think the employee was helped with that. I really believe that the average SMEs do not get up in the morning with: how will I fire my staff again? I know many more SMEs who stand up with: now I have to hire someone temporarily when I would have liked to give them a permanent contract, but I dare not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u100	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of measures that we can also support. But especially about that cumulation ground, which actually makes it easier to fire people, we are very concerned. I now hear Mr Van Weyenberg say 'we hope' or 'we expect' a few times. Could Mr Van Weyenberg comment on the hard analyses on which that hope and expectation are based? I know D66 as a party to the facts. We ourselves do not think it is very well-founded that this is really going to lead to more fixed contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u102	I'd get on it later, but let me do it now. There was a lot of good in the dismissal law at the Work and Security Act; Mr Heerma rightly said so. But you can see that the disappearance of the cumulation ground does not allow a much larger proportion of dismissal applications. I heard about 40% rejections at the Amsterdam Court. This leads to a lot of employers just getting shook up. You can see it in the numbers. The share of fixed contracts has further decreased after the Work and Security Act, not increased. That's what worries us both. This is indeed a limited extension. If you use that cumulation basis, we say, unlike employers, that this includes additional compensation. Then we don't open the locks at all. This was already apparent in an earlier debate. It means there's another way for a group of cases. If separate grounds are not added but are strong enough to be a good grounds for dismissal together, then it can be dissolved. I think that's wise. Scientific literature on dismissal also shows that this can help with long-term unemployment, not for the level of unemployment I admit immediately, but for the group that is stuck in long-term unemployment. I have expectations of this. After what happened at those courts, I noticed, for example, that a lot of employers are just going to drink the business, because that's how it works, just like with the pay-as-you-go in case of illness, saying to each other, "Have you heard? I had someone, some reasons, but it wasn't enough. My case isn't allowed by the judge. Well, that steady job, I'll never do it again." I expect this will help. However, as I said just now in response to a question from Mr Kuzu, we will have to keep our finger on the wrist, because in all honesty, time is running out. The economy has been strong for years, but the share of permanent jobs has not risen. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the payroll; I promised Mr Gijs van Dijk that. In practice, we see that this bill says: we are going to align primary and secondary working conditions; this prevents you from going to payroll for cost reasons. I welcome Mr Van Dijk's kind words. The previous cabinet failed to do so, despite an approved chamberal motion. Now there's just a bill and that's nice. Indeed, around retirement there was another particular case. There is an initiative law that I believe everyone thinks is very difficult to implement, with high administrative burdens. Now the bill says "an adequate pension scheme." I think that's too vague. I'd like to make more precise what that is. It can't be that you have a pension scheme somewhere in a payroll where you have to wait 26 weeks until you start building a pension at all, with a minimum employer's contribution, which ultimately means that payroll will be much cheaper than hiring someone. That is why I have a number of wishes for the general measure of governance that the Minister is now going to make to fill in that understanding. That seems to me to be the most workable way forward, I would say to Mr Van Dijk. I look forward to his support. As far as I am concerned, three things are at stake: I will come back to them very precisely in the second term. I actually want it to always be the average employer's bonus. It's about 15% in this country. I don't want there to be any waiting time. I know that this applies to more colleagues when it comes to this list, including in the coalition. And I think there's always something good to be done for next of kin. I would like a response from the Minister to that list, with the aim of putting one more measure into the market. That has the advantage, especially for the most vulnerable group, I would say to Mr Van Dijk, that in payroll we have the average pension contribution of the employer, especially in sectors with only a very modest pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u103	It's good to hear this. It's a good thing D66 wants to complete that payroll. Then it is really important to equalise pension costs. I am asking D66 now, but perhaps I should ask the Minister: what does that mean, on average, if you were to take that average premium? I cannot overlook it, but if it is somewhat like the costs and the level in the average sectors, then I can imagine something about that. But I can also imagine you making a choice. Then you say to companies: whether you opt for the student scheme in education, you opt for the ABP or you opt for the average pension premium because of the administration. Can Mr Van Weyenberg go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thanks for the opportunity to do it one more punch more accurately. I want it to be at least the average premium. I can also imagine you're even making another choice. The advantage of this is as follows. We all know that it is often about sectors with very low pension contributions. As far as I am concerned, we are raising the bar in this type of sector, perhaps as high as in the proposal you have made before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u105	I can't quite see that, but I think we agree on the goal. We want these costs to be levelled. Then the pension premium is important. There will then be different possibilities in the elaboration, but we will also have to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u106	Totally. So my picture is that you are talking about an average premium of 14%, 15%, but let me also explicitly ask the Minister that question. Thank you to Mr Van Dijk for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u107	I am pleased that D66 is also involved in the fact that the pension premium should not be a reason for creating unfair competition between payroll workers and employees. We had also come up with a very simple solution in our own initiative law: let the total contribution for the payroll worker and for the employee who carries out the same work at the same workplace be the same. This is not very different from what you are proposing, except that in many cases such a contribution may, for example, represent 20% of the wage bill. One day in a week working for the pension is taken by the bank in many sectors the amount to be paid for it. What disadvantages does Mr Van Weyenberg see in this proposal? And why does he choose to rely on the average premium input?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u108	That's a fair question. If I'm right, the initiative law was even about the arrangement you had to join. At least that's how I always understood him. I saw that in the note following the report some questions were raised about workability and administrative burdens. I have real doubts about that. That is why I have come up with this proposal, which some coalition parties, including Mr Heerma, have been calling for for some time now, perhaps making it more workable, and with less administrative burdens we are de facto achieving the same goal. This is really about the instrument that fits best. I am also waiting for the Minister's response; we will have to weigh that up. One of the advantages of this average premium is that we set the bar slightly higher for sectors with relatively low employers' contributions for employees. Sectors where there is a lot of payroll are, at regular intervals, also sectors where it plays. But if you take the average, it's higher in some sectors, in others lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u109	We have tried, in our own initiative law, to accommodate parties such as D66 or D66, but I also remember that the VVD made a big point of doing so by abandoning the idea that the scheme should be exactly the same. Because then you also have to deal with survivors' pensions and so on. We have submitted a letter of amendment to take the total amount of the premium instead. That must be the same, in order to prevent payroll from being cheaper than taking on an employee. Payrolling is also widely used in the public sector, for example. That's where nice salaries are paid. A cost advantage may arise for the government by hiring someone through a payroll company, based on the average. Therefore, again, why not apply the simple rule that the contribution amount for payroll worker and employee carrying out the same work in the same workplace should be the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you for that letter of amendment. At least that seems to help. In the end, I'll consider workability. On this point, however, I would like to ask whether your proposal does not entail a great deal of administrative burden. So we're just agreed on the goal, but I'm going to weigh it up. But I think that one premium can really help in sectors with a low employer's premium, where it is important to note that the government in my opinion likes confirmation that it no longer works with payroll.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u111	But besides the government, there are also municipal authorities and others who work with them. Anyway, that aside. Will we then together ask the Minister to indicate the pros and cons of equalizing the premium for an employee to that for a payroll employee, assuming an average? Because I am convinced that the letter of amendment by PvdA, GroenLinks and SP can be very simple administratively. In my view, the benefits of the three left-wing parties' proposal outweigh the benefits that Mr Van Weyenberg just mentioned, as it removes the unfair competition gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u112	Whatever I think you're gonna do with that average. But this concerns the question of which form is most effective. I don't think we have a difference of opinion on the purpose. Mr Van Kent asks if we can put that question to the Minister. Sure. I thought I already implied her, but he makes her explicit. It must all remain workable; in that we seek the balance. When it comes to payroll, I agree with Mr van Dijk's question about the social development companies and the letter from Cedris. I do think it is very important that we do not go down the road of all kinds of payroll hitchhiking along that route. I see a specific problem. It seems to me that it is very complicated to resolve that legally. I have not yet been able to think of an amendment which is quite clear. However, I can well imagine that the Minister is somehow creating space for himself to find a real tailor-made solution, also in view of Cedris' concerns about this. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Van Kent on the payments for training and payroll. My feeling was that much of this had already been covered by the law. Could the Minister say anything about that? In the absence of participation in the funds, a financial contribution must be made in respect of the investment of other employees. Would that help? Mr Van Kent fears that this will be the next cost difference. Does the Minister want to reflect on that? I have the impression that this is of a totally different size than in the case of pensions or primary working conditions. Is such an amendment workable? But there is very broad agreement in this Chamber on the basic starting point, namely whether we can minimise the cost differences. I have already asked the question about call forces: can people actually get their rights? There will be more rights in this law. What can you do about that? Indeed, that success depends on actually gaining that right. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on that. And about seasonal work we hear a lot of concerns from employers about this law, especially about what the WW premium differentiation has for impact on them. I must confess that that story came from all kinds of sectors that I thought were: sorry, but if that's already seasonal work, that's not my approach. But at the same time I understand that for real seasonal work in the previous Work and Security Act we have already made all kinds of exceptions on the labour law side. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this. I saw an amendment by Mr Stoffer passing by. I thought that was sometimes very broad, but there were elements in it that I might have found interesting and I am curious about the Minister's reaction. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the transition fee from day one. I think that is a very important point. Like I said, now it's for an employer, if he has a job for ten years, cheaper to just cut it up: always someone for two years and then out. Then you never have to pay a transition fee. That is, of course, precisely encouraging the wrong direction. It is indeed a looming error in the Work and Security Act, as someone called it. I have to admit that, and I want to be honest: there were parties who thought that at the time, and they were right. I welcome the fact that we are solving this now, and that we are also doing so in balance, because there are other things in this law. So I think this is really a well-balanced law that I have high expectations of, but you have already noticed that. Mr. Chairman. I have a specific question about a very specific situation. There will be a compensation scheme for employers to pay the transition fee if their employees have been ill for more than 104 weeks. We saw in practice that many jobs were kept dormant, but with this current scheme employers will no longer have any interest in doing so. I think that is good news; I know that many in this Chamber were concerned about this. But now the situation arises that if, for whatever reason, the employer does not dissolve that dormant employment until after 1 January 2020, the new structure of the transition fee will apply. This also applies if the employee had already reached disease for 104 weeks before 1 January 2020, under the old law. It's very technical, Mr. Chairman, but this can make a big difference for people. In the note on the report, the Minister states that this is true, but that doing something about it could have the undesirable effect of placing the employee at a disadvantage due to late action by the employer. Of course, no one wants that either, but would the Minister be prepared to encourage employers with dormant employment prior to the implementation of this law to actually dissolve it before 1 January? Because I'd really feel bad for people if suddenly something was solved on January 2, which made them worse off. Is there anything to be done for this in information, in contact with employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u113	I think that is an interesting point. We agreed to the arrangement just before the recess in the Chamber. This is important, because there are a lot of dormant employment and it is neat for employer and employee to put that off. But I think it's already in the conditions that you actually have to pay that transition fee as soon as possible in order to be able to claim the scheme. Only, we see the website of the UWV, and last week I also asked Parliamentary questions together with Mr Van Kent VVD and SP, which are really good questions about this ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u114	I don't know, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's a new sound from the VVD, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u116	Separate cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u117	We tried it with you this morning, but we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u118	What a coalition like that isn't good for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u119	My hands are always out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u120	Proceed, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u121	The search is now that the UWV will also give clear and clear information. I would like to add my voice to Mr Van Weyenberg's call for this to be clarified quickly, because this question merely shows how unclear that situation is and how desirable it is for workers in particular to know this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u122	In my view, in support of this fact, I can say that we are going to take care of things. What can we do to get employers to do this as soon as possible? I think everyone has an interest in wanting that. Can the Minister still help with that? Mr Wiersma points to the UWV. It's a good question and I'm curious about the answer. Mr. Chairman. I notice that there are concerns in sport about the impact of the transition fee on amateur sport in particular. My starting point is that if there is an employment, there is simply a transition fee. That is the direction of this law: you want to price flex. The amateur sport is certainly very worried, I see. I would ask the Minister to go into that more specifically. I have also asked for this for some sectors, particularly seasonal ones, including some of Mr Stoffer's amendments. Finally, Mr President. We are talking a lot here about the relationship tozzp'ers and the relationship to pay-as-you-go payments in this law. The fourth in that quadrangle is, as far as I am concerned, training: the importance of training and sustainable employability. There appears to be money left in the scheme to help SME entrepreneurs retire with the transition fee. I happen to be the first speaker of the coalition here, but it seems to the coalition to be a really good idea to free up money for education, for learning culture. Mr Wiersma has also said a number of things about this in a number of places. This certainly applies to SMEs, where education may not always be entirely in line with what they want. Business schools may not always be focused on this. I am also thinking, for example, of the option of helping them with bbl-stages. I think it is a good idea to spend the money there specifically on training in SMEs. I see Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u123	Yeah, I see him, too. I am also looking at you, Mr Van Weyenberg, because you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u124	I think we're about to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u125	Yeah? I think it would be more convenient for you to conclude your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u126	We've talked a lot about the premium differentiation. Around the building, Mr Gijs van Dijk asked a question that I also have. My question is, however, whether construction is not one of the sectors which is going to pay lower premiums in the new system. Mr. Chairman. I have two specific questions. The first is about the healthcare sector. There are questions about consignation services. I'm getting reports that the industry organization is worried about that. They have sent a letter asking how this is going to work. The precise argument is that these services are not seen in the Working Time Act as part of contractual hours, but in practice they add more than 30% to hours of work. This could lead to a major cost problem. I say honestly that I cannot entirely judge that, but I would like to get a response from the Minister to this concern. Is that right? Is there anything you can do about it? Could you clarify whether you see reason for action there? The second question is as follows: We are now going to differentiate premiums between fixed-term contracts and fixed-term contracts or call contracts. That's going to happen on the basis of the policy administration. People also need to be able to see on their pay slip how they feel about it, but that means that the data in the policy administration suddenly becomes very important. We are going to talk about this more often, even in the case of fraud in the WW. Because what's in there determines whether you're going to have to pay 7.5% or 2.5%. That's quite a cost difference. How then is enforcement regulated? I don't have to look in the engine room, because I don't want to make people wiser than they already are how you can trick there, but how are we going to guarantee that the good is written down? This is becoming important. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the retrospective changes in the policy administration. How could that work? I have a temporary contract. After two years it will be fixed, or after a year; let me be optimistic, I say to Mr Van Kent. Then I think: you know what, with retroactive effect I'm just saying that from day one it was. The employee does not suffer from this, but suddenly the employer saves a lot of premium with retroactive effect. That's just fraud. How are we gonna prevent that? Finally, Mr President. There is a law here that I am satisfied with, which really restores the balance, which ensures that a fixed job is better accessible and that flex is better priced. It is a law that solves a number of weaving errors in the Law work and security, but leaves the basic philosophy of that law intact as far as I am concerned. There were also many good things in it; let me say that again. A law that came because the social partners just didn't come out. Even when they had months during formation, it didn't work. I hope that parties in this Chamber will not take the view that if there is one thing they might do differently, they will vote against. Let's put together this law, where we are taking some important steps today...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u128	...to support left-wing parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u130	...appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u132	I was still thinking a little bit about Mr Van Weyenberg's positive comments on my amendment on seasonal work. I'm very glad he's looking forward to that. I am also curious about the reflection from the cabinet, of course, but I do have a question about the remark that it is a little too broad. Could you perhaps say something about what is too broad in your view? Of course, I am also looking for something that you will say in the end: I can sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u133	I will ultimately assess whether it is trying to do anything about seasonal work in particular. Personally, I'm the most sensitive to that. It turns out it's very complicated. You choose the group of young people under 21 who work less than 12 hours a week as a way to find some direction. But you're choosing such a wide palette that I'm worried if you don't open it wider. The more you know how to aim that, the more exciting I get. I can go into more detail now, but I think the President will look even more angry at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u134	It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u135	The more focus you put, the more positive my attitude becomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u136	We're gonna do our best to put extra focus into it, but we're gonna wait for the minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP. The Minister is negotiating...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u138	Lunch. It's not unimportant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u139	Good. I call Mr Van Kent first on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The labour market law does not solve problems," headlined the Dutch daily. "'Employees pushed even further into swamps of uncertainty'; that was the headline Het Parool chose. "New law increases inequality of labour," de Volkskrant wrote. "Jurists cut off longer probation in permanent jobs," says the General Dagblad. I didn't have to do my best. We took a look at all the newspaper articles when this law came out and there wasn't one positive headline. A law from the left to the right, from employers to workers and from lawyers to the Council of State has rarely been brought to an end. We saw it at the hearing. The Minister's conclusion was that if everyone is dissatisfied, I must have done a good job. I think that's a very special conclusion. I wonder how that goes at home at the kitchen table. When the minister's partner asks what his day was like, the minister says, "Everyone was dissatisfied and everyone thought I had a bad idea, so yes, I've worked wonderfully and I'm doing well?" Mr. Chairman. Then the name of the law: the Labour Market Act in balance. That is, of course, a form of deception, because this flex law of Minister Koolmees does not restore the balance on the labour market. That is not only the view of the SP, but also of many others who have much more sense of it than I do. It is also a direct attack on a number of workers' rights. I mention the five months of uncertainty by extending the probationary period, the three years of uncertainty by enabling not two years but three years of insecure contracts and permanent uncertainty by dismantling protection against unfair dismissal. But not hindered by modesty, this minister calls his flex law a milestone for the labour market. I see only a compromise between the coalition parties, which has resulted in inconsistent measures. This coherence has always been stressed. Our own-initiative legislation and our own-initiative proposal have also been subject to constant emphasis on this coherence. But the coherence with, for example, the payment of wages in case of illness, the approach of false self-employment for mass contracting and the whole subject ofzzp is lacking in this law. In this respect, there is no consistency in this law either, especially if you look at individual measures. It's actually a piece of shit. Mr. Chairman. In 2017, non-financial companies in the Netherlands, such as industry and trade, made a gross profit of 218.1 billion euros. A profit of 218.1 billion euros. Since this has been maintained, since 1995, it has never been this high. While profits are falling through the ceiling, workers' incomes are lagging behind. The real disposable income of households has hardly increased since 1977, according to research. Flex is one of the main reasons for this. The Netherlands Bank concluded that recently and indicated that not only do flex workers earn less than they earn, I have to say, but because of their weak employment position, their weak position vis-à-vis the employer and their low level of organisation also ensure that the wages of permanent employees are lower than should be. The problem is not the permanent contract of employment, but the explosive increase in the number of precarious contracts and the slackening of wages. Does the Minister agree with the SP? Almost everyone agrees with us on this. So I assume this minister is, too. The dogma "stuck less fast and flex less flex," which makes sense, is pure nonsense. Because, according to the Minister, what danger is there in not interfering with certain contracts? And what justification does the Minister have for that? Mr. Chairman. This law is actually a gathering of very much smaller legislative proposals. I will deal in turn with the chain clause, the call contracts, payroll, dismissal law and probationary period. I will end positively with the proposal on the WW premium, which is in line with the proposal made earlier by the SP. Mr. Chairman. Since Rutte I, the number of people with an uncertain contract has increased explosively. In 2010, 1.5 million people had such an uncertain flex contract; now it is already 2 million employees. They are in uncertainty every month whether they have enough income to make ends meet and whether they still have a job at all. And what does this minister do? He makes insecure contracts possible again for a period of three years. This was also the subject of the debate with Mr Van Weyenberg. Like scientists and the Council of State, I do not see how this contributes to reducing the number of insecure flex contracts. It's gonna have the opposite effect. The Work and Security Act, the previous Flex Act, had the same aim with precisely the opposite measure, namely to shorten the period of uncertainty from three to two years. How is it going to extend the period for which uncertain contracts can be offered contributing to more secure contracts, I ask the Minister. I have also tabled an amendment to take that part out of the law. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the call agreements. The SP welcomes the plan to strengthen the position of call forces and prevent permanent availability, which can always be called upon by your employer. Of the 2 million employees with an uncertain contract, nearly 1 million have a call contract, also called a zero-hour contract. This law provides that workers are told four days before they have to go to work that they have to go to work. This is an improvement on the current situation, but there is also a risk that these four days will become the new standard. There is also another problem. For example, if you need to combine multiple jobs, which unfortunately is becoming more common, or want to combine a job withzzp-ship or other combinations, four days in advance is knowing when to still have to work a very short term. That is why we proposed by amendment to change that four-day period to a period of 14 days, so that everyone knows two weeks in advance when to work. It seems to me that it is possible for an employer to make the schedules at that time. Then specifically about those zero-hour contracts. It is already possible that a worker such as him or her has worked for three months may then ask the employer for a contract for the average number of hours worked in those three months. The cabinet now proposes that the employer make an offer after a period of 12 months. We see that the position of call forces with a zero-hour contract is not very strong. It will therefore be difficult to force or move an employer to do so, because that may mean that you will not be scheduled or even lose your job. That is why we have proposed the amendment that workers with a zero-hour contract should, after three months, automatically receive a contract for the number of hours worked in the preceding three months. We just talked about payroll. In addition, the pension is still the most important element. Previously, the initiative law of the Labour Party, GroenLinks and SP was mentioned, with which we wanted to ensure that employees who are directly employed by the employer and payroll workers are given exactly the same working conditions and that this does not entail a cost advantage to employ payroll workers. Most of the time, this law is now in this law, but what is missing is a full pension scheme which also entails the same costs for the client as for employing an employed worker. We have just asked questions about this through Mr Van Weyenberg: is he prepared to make the total amount to be paid for the employee's pension scheme equal to the total amount to be paid to the payroll worker, so that there is no cost difference and there is simply an equal pension? The same applies to the training budget. I have indeed tabled an amendment on this; Mr Van Weyenberg also asked for it. Is it true that, if this law becomes a reality, the training opportunities and the training budgets will also be fully aligned with the personal training budget for employees who are directly employed and payroll employees? I'd like a response to that. If that proves to be the case, I will, of course, withdraw our amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then the right of dismissal, the cumulative ground, as it is called. "Cumulation ground" actually means that the employer may collect a number of reasons for dismissal. Where the employer now has to choose one, for example that someone is not working, he will be able to combine a number of reasons for dismissal. In fact, the cabinet helps employers who do not have an adequate staff policy, because if you are a good employer, you conduct those work interviews, you keep track of the file and you have a good file if you have to say goodbye to someone. That is also possible within the current rules, but what does the cabinet say? No, we're going to give that employer an opportunity to gather several things together, and we're going to make it easier to fire employees. I do not see any justification for this. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he justifies and supports this, especially in times when employers are jumping over workers and the number of dismissal cases that come to court is decreasing precisely because the outcome is clear within the right of dismissal as it currently exists and because a lot of agreements can be made without the need for the judge to use them. Why does the Minister think it is necessary to introduce such a radical measure now? The SP absolutely rejects that. We have therefore tabled an amendment to remove this relaxation of the right of dismissal, that attack on workers' rights, from this law. Then there is the dismissal allowance, because during the hearing, one of the canton judges gave a cry of heart, namely: please give us the space, if the damage is great and if someone has been working outside for very bad reasons and in a very bad way by an employer, for example, has a working history of three or four years and is 54 years old, to fix a financial amount that does justice to the damage suffered by someone. We've all heard the judge's cry of hearts. I believe that this is something we should organise with each other, because it is not possible for someone with such a background to work for three or four years and 54 years of age to be added to it instead of a third of the monthly salary per year worked? That doesn't make any difference, does it? For this reason, my group, together with the Labour Party, would be in favour of including in the law the possibility for judges to deviate from the maximum remuneration for dismissal as laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u141	This is also a very convenient point for 50PLUS. We were very searching, too. We thought, if you don't build in a maximum, you have a chance that's gonna cause problems for the coalition. We have therefore put the doubler in place, but we will have the necessary questions later, because we thought that there would still be a possibility in the law if something was really unreasonable or unfair. I think that is Article 681b (c). Is that not enough for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u142	In my view, that article only applies when it is really about obvious matters, such as sexual harassment, violence or that sort of thing. If that's what's going on, it can go to court. That can go on forever. This is an amendment that has been applied in the previous Flex Act. That route is indeed there, but my group is in favour of giving the judges the room to come up with a new arrangement. We used to have the canton judge formula. I am not saying that we have to go back to that one-on-one, but that canton court formula has never been established by politics. That was an arrangement the canton judges had devised among themselves. I can imagine that, if we give the canton judges the room, we will also ask them to come up with a proposal to consider how to set limits. I don't think politics should. You say you put in the double. Then you go from 1.5 to 3, and I don't see why you couldn't go to 4. I don't know why you wouldn't go to 2.7 either. So that border is always arbitrary. I would therefore say: give that confidence to the judges and ask the judges to work this out with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u143	First of all, we had an amendment to Bureau Legislation on the culpability factor. We wanted to give the judges the opportunity to build in a factor. At that time, reference was made to this article on fairness. Should we then seek room with each other so that the judges could apply that article more easily and more often? Then when something is really unreasonable, we are not stuck with 1.5 times that transition fee, as we both aim to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u144	Then you should stretch that notion, that article, I think. But I would also be in favour of giving confidence to our canton judges, and asking our canton judges to see within the space they get what is reasonable and fair. I think our judges are very capable of doing so and we can give them that confidence. But if you come to other ways for which you do have the support of the coalition, you can also count on our support. We share the goal, and if we can get out of it, you can count on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u145	Good. Proceed, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. This law also provides for the abolition of the increased construction of... It's all technique, but it's the discharge fee if you work somewhere for more than ten years. You'll be building up a higher severance pay. That increase is deleted in this law. That's a big cut for employers, but in our view it's an unjustified cut, because especially if you work somewhere longer, it's more likely that your age is a little higher. This may also increase the period of unemployment or the need for retraining. In my opinion, that was also the justification for this increased structure if you work somewhere for more than ten years. The SP is in favour of keeping it intact. We have also put forward a proposal for this. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the transition fee, and it has been said that the employer must know where he is in terms of money. But let's look at a 58-year-old employee with a 40-year-old employment. That employee first received more than €108,000. Under the previous Flex Act, this has become less than half, and if it is this minister, it will leave €36,000 under this law. So you go from €108,000 to €36,000. Over the years, therefore, redundancy payments have been reduced dramatically, which has also made it easier for employers to fire people. For we must not forget that the dismissal allowance is not only a financial compensation for the disadvantage of the employee, but also a threshold for the employer to fire someone. The fact that money has to be paid can be a reason for an employer to think: can I not find another place within my company with education, or in other ways prevent me from firing someone? Mr. Chairman. Then it's probation. We just heard from D66 that he is going to support the amendment by GroenLinks, SP and Labour Party. We've read the papers, too, so I won't waste a lot of words on that. It was a silly idea, and I think we're gonna delete it from the law today. That's good news, because giving things 150 days on trial is something I don't think exists anywhere. A car 150 days on trial or a dress 150 days on trial, I don't think that would offer any entrepreneur. I don't think an entrepreneur needs it either to get an employee on trial for 150 days. I can already see the minister dancing; I think that's for joy because this part is being removed from his law, because it's... The Minister likes the SP video, I hear him say now. That's good to hear; compliments to the maker of it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the WW premium differentiation. It is wonderful that this is now being arranged, because it is of course bizarre that you as an employer are cheaper if you hire employees on an uncertain contract than if you hire employees on a certain contract. I have already mentioned the example of the HEMA. A rota has to be made, with an average of €9 gross per hour. A student of 35 must therefore be scheduled in order to reach that €9. This leads to the massive use of an uncertain contract, sometimes 80% to 90% of employees, especially in retail outlets and many other places, simply because it gives a cost advantage at the bottom of the line. There are two things that are introduced with this law and that have always been a long-cherished wish of the SP. The first is the dismissal allowance from day one. So even if you fire people after one year without having a permanent contract, you have to give money as an employer. The second is that in that one year, two years or three years later, you pay a higher WW premium and the WW premium for the employees to whom you have given a certain contract goes down. This means that it is no longer attractive for an employer or becomes much less attractive to employ employees on short-term contracts over and over again. The SP Group expects a lot of that. We also hope that the measures accompanying them will lead to greater uncertainty and flexibility, such as the third temporary contract, will be removed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-31-tweedekamer-3.u147	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Actually, I have a little bit of a practical problem. I don't normally present that to you, but we'll have the memorial of former Chamber Chairman Mr. Dick Dolman at 1.15 p.m. I am looking to see if it is possible to give Mr Smeulders the floor before that, but there is a good chance that he will be interrupted. So I'll just suspend the meeting until 1:15 p.m. First we'll start with Mr Dick Dolman's remembrance. After that, we are going to have work done and then we are going to continue with this debate.
