ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u1	Let's move on. The next item is a VSO on further information on space letter.Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The sector will be hearing from them. We just talked about that. The water is on their lips. The Malieveld wasn't loaded for nothing last Friday. We have had a very frequent exchange of views with this Minister. One thing he often says is: it's on the collective bargaining table. But that collective bargaining table is fighting an unfair fight. For half of the collective bargaining table, the employers, knows what the negotiating area is, and the rest of that table does not know that. We do not think that is fair, and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas working conditions in education have a direct impact on the growing shortage of teachers;]] [[noting that the social partners are committed to setting up these working conditions in such a way as to make work in education more attractive;]] [[noting that the lack of understanding of the financial area that employers have to offer for trade unions leads to an unequal negotiating position;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the relevant space letters are now accessible to all social partners at the collective bargaining table,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Hul, Westerveld, Van Meenen and Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u3	Mr. Chairman. More than ten years ago, a huge shortage of teachers was predicted. A committee was then set up: the Rinnooy Kan Committee. He said: it takes more than 1 billion for education. The then Minister of Education met some of these demands, but the cabinet then put in place a zero line and reversed all these efforts. And we are sitting here now with the consequences. Of course, we don't want to do that again. That is why we are tabling a motion calling on the government to introduce an agreement with care into education. That's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the concern is in the oval covenant which establishes that the public contribution to labour cost development is linked to the wage development of the market without it being possible to adjust it downwards;]] [[Considering that, in addition to the adjustment due to wage developments in the market, there is also a policy adjustment in education;]] [[Whereas this policy adjustment has put education on the line for many years and has contributed to the shortage of teachers;]] [[calls on the government, as in the case of the Oval Covenant in the care sector, to make arrangements to ensure that the public contribution at least follows labour cost developments in the market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am here on behalf of my colleague from the Interior, who, as you know, is responsible for sending the space letter. It is good to emphasise that this responsibility lies not with OCW, but with Home Affairs. And I think it is also good to point out that the space letter, one letter, is intended not only for education, but also for defence, for police, for state officials and for the judiciary, to list the categories where employers use the information that is passed on in the space letter. So it affects different sectors. That is partly the reason why I have tabled the motion in part No. 169 dissuade, also on behalf of my colleague in the Interior. You can't make an exception for one sector. In addition, this is a fairly formal argument, which also affects the bargaining position of employers. Then you'll say that's what you want. But they must also have space, because the sums passed on to them in the space letter are not just about the wage space that arises. It also has to do with pensions or choices for other working conditions, not just with wages. In short, different considerations are made. It also affects the agreements made with the social partners in the decentralisation agreements. That's the last argument I'll mention. With the partners, the deal is that we do it this way. This is without prejudice to the fact that employers themselves can choose to share it. But that is different from the fact that we oblige them from above. That is why we strongly advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u5	The motion in part No. 169 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u6	Yes, we've talked about it before. We are concerned that it is now an unfair situation. In the Minister's written reply we see no legal objections to the publication of the space letter. So does the Minister agree with us that there is indeed an unequal negotiating situation? In addition, one half of the table knows where it is, and another half of the table doesn't know where it is. Can the Minister imagine that from that field, from the same polder, we will be asked to do something about this, to correct it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u7	This situation has been going on for years. The question of whether or not we should change this has been raised before. In the end, previous Cabinets have also made the choice not to do so. You say it's an unfair fight. The negotiations are often quite robust, but after negotiations choices are made and collective agreements are concluded. If it's an unfair fight, it's pretty much finished last time. Look at primary education, for example. There have been substantial increases in wages. There's been a deal. But it does touch on a point of principle, the negotiating position of the employers. They must have access to these subjects. But it's not just about pay space. In the end, they must come to choices in consultation with the workers. Those are the rules of the game that we set with each other a few years ago. That is so agreed with the social partners, so with the complete polder, to put it at home. The Cabinet sees no reason to change this. I just indicated that there's one space letter. It also affects the other sectors. If we did that in education, you'd turn the whole place upside down. We have absolutely no intention of doing that. That is why I strongly reject this motion once again. This is not the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u8	I hear the arguments. They're known to me. The Minister has indeed shared this with us before. I repeat that the water is now on the lips and that it really is about something at that table. When we ask the Minister for more money for education, he says: I am not going over it; that is on that table. On the other hand, he says that it is up to the employers to give that openness. But they don't. Then I understand that the employee side of the polder thinks it's unfair. That is why I am asking the Minister whether he is prepared to at least address the employers and ask them to do so. Perhaps he can understand the question we are getting from the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u9	I see in this motion that we must ensure that the'space letters applicable to them will now be comprehensible to all the social partners at the collective bargaining table'. I would point out that the cabinet agreed at the time, laid down in a covenant, that we do not. The cabinet sees no reason to abandon it. Of course, we also see the fact that the water is on the lips, that there is an urgent need to reach agreements with each other. That is why I always hope that those sitting at the table will take their responsibilities and come to good agreements. This was achieved in the secondary education sector in a very good way, even with a two-year collective agreement. There the employers have even taken a certain risk, because they have already included in the agreements a reference space which they were not aware of for an additional calendar year. Because when you make those appointments, you can't say that the space letter is a bit disappointing and so you don't do it. They just did it there. In the p.o. We have concluded a very nice collective agreement, of course also because of the extra money available for salaries. So we just managed to make appointments. Now we are still in consultation. Employers also have an interest in making agreements with each other at a certain point in time. This is the way the cabinet does this. I can also give you this on behalf of the Minister of the Interior. We do not intend to deal with this differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u10	I will not repeat Mrs van den Hul's whole reasoning, but I will share it. I'd like to continue on her last point. The Minister could also choose to urge employers to do so. Because you can. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u11	In the current situation, employers already have the room to share this information, if they so wish. That information is simply known. It is up to employers to make choices. They also listen to this debate and see these kinds of motions. So it's really up to them. We really need to keep our distance. You also know that even laws and regulations require the government to keep its distance. That's why we've arranged it neatly with the space letter, which is widely usable. It's being neatly handed over. That's when the government makes a retreating move and waits for the process to be completed at the tables. Everyone knows what the possibilities are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u12	The argument that we as a government should keep our distance is an opportunity argument, because at one point we do and at the other time we do not. My question is: why should we do it precisely at this point? Because right now, the question of how much money is actually there and whether it ends up in the right place keeps the moods busy. Then you would say that this is the time to really share the knowledge about it with all parties. I understand that there are objections because this motion goes right through past agreements, although I have no problem with that. But you could also say that, given the problems in education, this is the time when I, as a minister and as a chamber, think that this knowledge should be shared, and so we are talking about this with the employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u13	The cabinet holds on to the agreements that have been made on this matter. When it comes to collective bargaining, I have always said that I hope that it will be concluded as soon as possible. That was definitely last year for the p.o. Very important, because there was a lot of money waiting for it and the teachers would have to wait for it every day which would take longer to conclude a collective agreement. When it comes to my portfolio, only one sector is being negotiated, i.e. the p.o. I hope, therefore, that we can come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u14	Then the motion to part No. 170.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u15	I take it the vote on this motion is next Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u16	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u17	Shall I ask my Home Secretary to inform the Chamber in writing about this motion? Because this is really her responsibility. I can't say anything about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u18	So that motion is still subject to a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u19	Yeah, he's getting a written judgment from my Home Office colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u20	Okay. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-38.u21	The two motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
