ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal Rules for the production of electricity by coal (Law on the Prohibition of Coal in Electricity Production (35167). I welcome back the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u2	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, the 25th Climate Summit in Madrid was launched in Madrid, thanks to a tough decision by the Spanish Demissionary Government, in particular by the minister's colleague, the Spanish Minister for Environmental Transition, who wanted to put the Chileans out of business, because apparently the Spanish Government thought that this summit should continue. Yesterday, at the opening of this summit, I would ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to give a brief response to this question. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Guterres, spoke rather harshly. There was reason to do that, because last week's Emissions Gap Report 2019, which reflects the state of the global climate, is extremely worrying. In short, as a global community, we're nowhere at all. It's slipping in the wrong direction. Emissions are rising, even in 2018. We really need to get to work. All words must now be converted into deeds. I would ask the Minister to give a brief assessment of this Emissions Gap Report 2019, because if we continue like this, as I have said during the general financial considerations, the maximum of 1.5°C global temperature increase will be achieved in the next decade. And we know from the same IPCC what the dangers are of any temperature increase above this 1.5°C. I'd like a response. It is quite clear to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that not only governments, but also all social parties, have a major task to do to bring about the climate transition as a matter of urgency. The same applies to the financial sector. My group therefore finds it wonderful news that in the summer climate agreement, which was concluded, the Dutch financial sector wanted to commit itself so heavily to the transition invested in this Climate Agreement. It is interesting, I would ask the Minister to respond to this, too. What are the latest reports from the same financial sector? I'm referring to two messages. Firstly, the report by Carbon Tracker, Apocalypse Now, which gives an overview of the current situation in the coal power plant market. That's interesting, because this is another source of good news. Carbon Tracker tells us in this report, which was published in October, that in Europe, but also outside, the coal sector writes mainly red figures. This is due to the fact that the energy transition is finally getting underway in a temperate and repulsive way. And that's because, thanks to a spectacular reduction in costs, sun and wind take a big part in it, much harder than anticipated. And luckily so. These are the transitions we like to see at GroenLinks. The last point, however, is also a clue to this: I therefore ask the Minister to respond to this question: that the coal sector in Europe, perhaps much faster than the proposal before us, should be out of or out of business. How does the Minister judge this message? This morning there was a related message in The Guardian. 35 major international insurers have decided no longer to act as insurers for coal-producing coal companies and their electricity production. That's interesting. Market players who have to do it without insurance coverage. Those are strong signals from the financial sector, which is aware of what this transition is about. This is, I think, also encouraging for the transition this minister wants. But for the moment, I am asking the Minister for an assessment of these messages, because perhaps the transition in the electricity sector is much harder than this proposal is intended. I would like to hear more from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In relation to this major climate issue, the report that was published last week and the hard words of the Secretary-General, as well as my plea to the General Financial Reviews, are. I also asked the Minister a question about it in the report. My group thought and finds it amazing that we actually know so little about the world in which we end up, economically and financially speaking, and that is what I am talking about here when climate change is not controlled sufficiently and not sufficiently in time. A lot of work has already been done by many internationally. My point, my guess, is that it is causing great economic damage. I invited the Minister in the report and I also invited his colleague two or three weeks ago to the General Financial Reviews to do a good study, suitable for the Dutch context. The cabinet is rejecting this. I don't understand. It could be about major economic and budgetary impact. I referred to the report by Lord Stern, the OECD has done work on it, as has the IPCC. All the signals are on red, economically, financially and budgetaryly. Why don't we want to know more about that? I would ask the Minister to reconsider this. Because I would think that the amounts that sometimes go around about the climate transition are ghost amounts. Some groups here in the Chamber are talking about 1,000 billion. I believe that these amounts for the transition we are aiming for with the Climate Agreement are totally out of control. The Minister has not failed to make that statement in detail, and he is absolutely right to do so. But these amounts are real when we do not intervene in time. Then we are talking about substantial money and a significant reduction and threat to the prosperity that we leave to our children. Then you'll be talking about 1,000 billion soon. It's expensive not to do anything. I attach myself to these sums and ask the Minister to sit a little looser in his coat to reflect the good perspective on unmanageable climate change. That is information that citizens are entitled to. In my group's view, it also provides additional international support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u4	I have a question for Mr Vendrik van GroenLinks. He says that 1,000 billion doesn't make any sense. Well, it's been verified and backed up with reports. But my question is this. If you don't find that substantiated and ask the Minister for research, how can you say it's expensive not to do anything? Isn't that contrary to your accusation that the 1,000 billion is worthless?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u5	That 1,000 billion has nothing to do with the cost of the climate transition. The PBL passed that on nicely for us. The national cost is EUR 1.5 billion per year, and that is the pure measure. Let's do that for the next 11 years. That's 11 x 1.5 billion. I don't think that's 1,000 billion. That's one. Then the second. I have already referred to several reports. Let me mention Lord Stern again; I think that is the most authoritative authority. He did it 13 years ago, at the request of the British Government. 20% of GDP, globally, is going to cost us. Later, Lord Stern said: it is likely to be 40% of GDP. Let's just make the sum for the Netherlands. 40% of our GDP is about 4 x 70 billion. That's 280 billion. I'll round that up to 300 billion. That's what you do times 10. Then you get to 3,000 billion euros. These are the costs over a period of ten years; that is a loss of prosperity for the Netherlands. I don't know if this sum is right. That's why I'm asking the Minister for an explanation. I would like that sum to be ready for the Netherlands, but the global picture of Lord Stern, of the IPCC, of the OECD, is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u6	Mr Vendrik shakes a few pieces out of his sleeve, but my question was another. On the one hand, you blame other parties in this House, and on the other hand you ask the Minister how much it costs, and on the other hand you make the conclusion that it is very expensive. That's kind of special.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u7	I ask the Minister to investigate the consequences for the Dutch economy and the Dutch budget. That sum is not yet ready. I've just given you an example of how it might work out, but I'm not sure. I do know what is now available: economic analyses of a world of uncontrolled climate change. These analyses are, I repeat, made by Lord Stern, the IPCC, the OECD and others. This is about many tens of percent of GDP in loss of prosperity. That's the future of the 21st century. That's the real sum. We need to know and understand them better for the Netherlands, for the citizens of the Netherlands, for the companies of the Netherlands, for the budget of the Netherlands. That is my request: let that sum be made and repeat it, so that we have a good idea of the world in which we and our children will end up and of the economy that we might leave behind for them. That is my specific request. Mr. Chairman. If this sum existed, then I think that the Minister and his successor would have been helped in communicating to citizens and businesses to do the cost of nothing and to weigh the cost of intervention well against each other and to find a balance there, because that is ultimately, economically and politically speaking, the choice that needs to be made. I would think that it would be desirable, not only for this cabinet, but certainly for future Cabinets, to know the impact on public finances, as we want to know about the ageing population. Eventually, however, this bill, which is on the table here, also requires an understanding of the costs of transfer. CO has huge external effects. This sum, which I ask the Minister for, is an assessment of that. I am surprised, also in this legislative proposal, that the process towards the reasoning that companies should be compensated and that this has been done unfairly to operators has quickly been made. That's just one side of the story. The other side is that a lot more companies than just coal plants contribute to CO emissions and transfer costs far above the price they pay for emissions via the ETS, so these costs are for society. I think it is wise for the good perspective on the transition that we know these costs and can also communicate and talk about them. Once again, Minister, why are you holding back on this? Mr. Chairman. In the short term, Urgendavonnis plays. This bill is also relevant for this purpose, and not only because of the planned closure of the Hemwegcentrale. This is one of the measures taken by the Minister to reduce emissions by 2020. If I rewind the debate in the House of Representatives, I hear the Minister say that more is not necessary at the moment: the closure of one coal power station is sufficient. It is interesting to see what the PBL, via KEF, has achieved in terms of understanding the goal-realisation by 2020. The PBL says that the reduction in emissions will be somewhere between 19% and 26%, with a middle value of 23%. If we understand the explanatory statement correctly, the risk of setbacks is greater than the chance of windfalls. If we dive in the figures, I would ask the Minister specifically to comment on this issue.It seems that the disappointing outcome for 2019 and 2020 is to a substantial extent related to the development on the electricity market, in particular to the provision of a lot of imports of electricity from abroad, which, on the other hand, leads to exports of emissions and therefore less emissions in the Netherlands. So that's how this minister gets closer to the goal. By 2020, we still have to see how that works, but by 2019, the year is almost over, we know about whether these supposed imports and the corresponding emission reductions are being achieved in the electricity sector. I don't think that reduction is taking place. The emissions reduction in 2019 is, according to the PBL estimate and based on what we see around us today, significantly less than what the PBL writes in KEF, based on the price assumptions in this spring. That's about substantial numbers, about 10, 12, 13 megatons of difference. That also makes the difference whether the Minister can say next year that he has respected the Urgendavonnis, or that he has stayed very far away from it. Mr. Chairman. I attach great importance to clarity on this point, and I ask the Minister to comment on it, also because the judge has strongly recommended to the cabinet, the State, including on appeal, to adopt the lower limit as a guideline for policy. So that lower limit is 19%. The cabinet's a long way from there. It would therefore be logical for this bill not only to close the Hemweg plant, but all coal plants. The amendments tabled by my colleague Mr Van der Lee in the House of Representatives on this matter have been rejected by the cabinet. In the light of the current situation, I would once again ask the cabinet to re-assess this. Mr. Chairman. The closure of coal plants, not in 2030 but much earlier, would also solve another pressing issue immediately. This is the major debate on the additional and mostly woody biomass. We'll put an end to that right away. We know that in the Netherlands there is a high excess capacity of electricity generating capacity, so for security of supply this does not have to be an issue. That is well known. This has also been explained in detail in the report by CE Delft this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u8	I have a question for Mr Vendrik on security of supply. The closure of coal-fired power stations is in any case at risk. In the Minister's answers, we saw that there would be talk of 'lacking abroad'. In my view, Mr Vendrik himself put that very well when he said: then we will eventually be fired for ourselves abroad to ensure that we at least have electricity. What is Mr Vendrik's appreciation of the fact that we are perhaps doing a decent reduction here, while allowing production to increase abroad to help us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u9	In my view, it is not entirely right to assume that more production from abroad will necessarily have to be involved if we are to close coal power stations. I just made that point. Greater still capacity in gas-fired power plants has significantly lower emissions per unit of energy. This means that we are making national profits. As regards imports and exports, I have just indicated that we know from the KEV that small price differences can already make a big difference to the fact that we are net importer or exporter. I have just mentioned the example of 2019. That indicates, I think, that we do not know exactly how such an operation is going to end on balance. I don't know. There is a very high probability that we will achieve additional emissions reductions on balance. That's exactly what Urgenda's asking of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u10	I can follow that reasoning. If I take the figures out of my head, we are talking about a reduction of 18 megatons in the closure of coal-fired power stations. However, the same report mentions an actual return of 8 megatons. In other words, more than half of them are leaking out of the country. That is a very nice way of saying that we need to burn more abroad to help us. That is actually the question that is aimed at coal-fired power stations. I am not talking about the other possibilities we have left, about gas and the like. At the coal-fired power stations we are actually showing abroad: we are doing well, but you have to help us. So there's more CO emissions there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u11	That's not how it works. If we decide here to close five coal power stations and amend the bill in this way, that was attempted in the House of Representatives, then it is not so that we should then call the German Government to say: you must now turn on the coal power stations. It's a market. I just argued that we thought German electricity would be cheaper in 2019. On balance, this would result in a lot of imports, but it does not appear to be there. On the contrary, we export exactly. The Dutch electricity sector and, in particular, the gas-fired sector is extremely competitive. This also has something to do with the increase in CO prices. The idea that additional efforts in the Netherlands on the closure of coal power stations will lead to additional production abroad is therefore wrong. That's not how the electricity market works. I wish I had the exact answer for you, but I don't think anyone has that answer at the moment. This is the case for this year, for next year and for 2030. The best thing we can do is to make a maximum effort at least to implement the court judgment here. That is what I am talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u12	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. As I said, it also brings a substantial second advantage. This is because we are putting an end to the disputed by- and mostly biomass and its growth in the years to 2030. I suspect that the Minister will not immediately come back to the Chamber screaming with enthusiasm to answer these questions. That is why I would like to ask you, just to be sure, what is the time frame for the decisions on the additional and most important biomass for the four remaining power stations after the closure of the Hemweg plant. Have we understood his earlier explanation of Mr Koffeman's motion? Is it true that no new grant decision will be taken until the sustainability framework of the PBL is available, until the ESC opinion is available and until there is an appreciation of this minister of both documents and it has been properly discussed in Parliament? If this is indeed the right explanation of this Minister's policy, would it not be logical to do so across the board, given the social debate on biomass? This would mean that new decisions under the SDE for n'importe would stop any use of biomass, bioenergy and for any end-use until we know for sure what the sustainability framework for biomass use and use will be. I am considering a motion on this point. In any case, I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions. Dominant in the written discussion of this bill was the idea for some groups that there could be reasonable expectations of operators that they could produce electricity in the Netherlands for a longer period without burden or inconvenience from the government using coal. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to use this debate to make a clear statement as to whether that is true. Mr Vos's motion from 2007 has also been referred to in the Minister's documents. To my great shock I also came across a motion of my own from exactly ten years ago. It was adopted by the House of Representatives and from this the coal plant operators could have deduced that this could not last until the end of the days of life. I think it would be wise for the Minister to put this straight again. It is true that it has been unwise for previous Cabinets to grant permits for coal power stations at all, and I say to Mr Pijlman that climate policy was discussed on all sides and was lively on all sides. We had the Kyoto Protocol, the ETS was under construction, et cetera. Nevertheless, the Cabinets-Balkenende I, II and III decided to grant, deliver and start construction. I remember the debate which I think Mrs Gerkens took part in at the time. The agreement was that the coal plants would not only be CCS-ready, but that they would also apply this on their own account. I believe that this crucial condition was removed from the permits by the then Minister for Economic Affairs. This may lead to less blame for the coal-fired operators who finally left the Rotterdam project.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u14	Would you like to finish, Mr. Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u15	Finally, Mr President. As the energy transition needs to get the highest possible speed, coal power stations need to be shut down more quickly. Also look at what happens during the COP in Madrid. It is wise for the Minister to give extra gas to the alternatives, to use that fossil metaphor once more. That is why I am asking him about the state of play with regard to the North Sea agreement. This has been negotiated by Mr Wallage with relevant parties as a successor or afterburner to the climate agreement and of what happened at the electricity table. Do I understand that this agreement is being embraced by the Cabinet, including the necessary transitional fund? Mr. Chairman. Then the point of hydrogen. Mr Pijlman mentioned this in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u16	Mr. Vendrik, you're going way beyond the time you've registered for. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u17	Sure. On this point, too, we call for a firm commitment from the cabinet. I ask the Minister to explain this here. Finally, one question that was not adequately answered in the written debate: the use of the market stabilisation reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u18	Mr. Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vendrik, I don't know if you've finished yet. You made grims that you wouldn't otherwise make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u20	I swallowed a sentence. That looks weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u21	That looks really weird, I must say. I'm gonna head back to CCS. You have one point: CCS was not mentioned in the authorisation. But the preparation of power stations with equipment that could connect CCS has been done. Furthermore, promises have also been made by the energy producers to participate in the CCS process. This means that it cannot be so, as some here also argue, that when they took the investment decision, the producers did not know what they were getting into. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u22	We very much agree on that. Before, during and after authorisation, more than enough signals were issued from politics towards operators. They could have realised that they had started a rather risky business. And the financial markets have discovered that by now. How good is that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Coal is a highly polluting fuel to produce electricity. The present legislative proposal aims to ban this production and thus significantly reduce CO emissions and to take an important step towards meeting climate targets. The CDA Group supports this line of thinking, but the last word has not yet been said. Let me first make a general comment. I had such a suspicion, but since the recent first annual analysis by the Cabinet's Council of State of Climate Policy, I am beginning to believe it more and more: the cabinet's climate policy is incoherent. I mentioned it in the written preparation a search in which little is established. Anyone who looks at the history of the draft law before us can see that this has been the case in the past. In fact, there is even political fickleness. About ten years ago, one of the previous Cabinets advocated the construction of coal power plants to produce electricity. The idea behind this was: coal is cheap and infinitely available and the negative effects on the environment are overcome by underground CO storage. It looked like Columbus' egg. Seemed like it didn't happen. That is to say, the underground storage has never been realized, but the power stations have been built. There are three brand-new installations in our country built in 2015 or related to them, which could be produced for decades to come. But that's not the point. These coal plants, together with some older ones, must cease production because they emit too much CO. The government agreement is clear: by 2030, coal-fired power stations will no longer be available in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. This is, to say the least, a government zigzag policy. In ten times, there's a complete reversal. I would like a reply from the Minister and an answer to the question as to what this erratic behaviour could mean for companies' willingness to invest in the Netherlands. The Netherlands closes coal power stations. Elsewhere, for example in Germany, such power stations and even lignite power stations continue to operate. It clearly indicates relativity or, to remain in the spirit of the above, the incoherence of things. I would also like a response from the Minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u25	I hear Mr Van Kesteren talking about fickle policy. How does he look back on his own party's policy? The plans for the construction of these brand new coal power stations were made in the Balkenende II cabinet. You are talking about power stations in other countries. These brand new power stations have an energy efficiency of about 47%. For comparison, plants in Poland reach only 30%. So we're gonna close the cleanest, state-of-the-art power stations here to get our power from other plants with much lower yields, which are much more polluting and often still fired on lignite? On a global scale, that's not the right policy at all? How's the CDA looking at that? I can't wait to see how you stand as a party to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u26	First of all, I would like to say that the CDA was in all those cabinets that have now adopted this as a fickle policy. That's right. I also do not want to exclude the CDA from the term 'wispy' when it comes to the policy that was pursued at that time. We are now looking back on that and my observation is that it is the way it is. Why do I say that? Because I think we should learn from the past. I'll get back to you on that. There is a lot of flexibility in the policy on these kinds of issues. My plea later in my speech will also be to see if we can't come to a more consistent course. Then there is your question: how do you assess the closure of these plants in the light of the fact that other plants are going crazy? This is part of the overall policy pursued by this cabinet. I'm judging it as such. Of course, you can involve anything. I would like to make a remark that understanding this kind of policy is often difficult for many people, but we have set this path. I don't think there's any other way we can think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u27	That is a rather dogmatic approach: "we have set this path off." So we're on a very nice highway, you're going on a bumpy path, a dead end road, but you say: well, we've turned this path off; it costs billions, it doesn't matter for the climate either, but we're just doing it, because we're on that path. I assume that Mr Van Kesteren is aware of the saying 'better in half than in total error'. In this case, I think that would pay up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u28	Yeah, in general, that's going up. But I would also ask you to listen to my further speech and to the comments I have on the proposals currently before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u29	Crystalic means you say "a" today and tomorrow b, and so on. My question is about consistency, about saying "a" today and not saying "b" today. The consistency lies in the fact that at the time, when the aforementioned Cabinets decided on the authorisation of four new coal-fired power stations, with three in the end, it was already well known that the granting of such a licence was very much at odds with the climate target for 2020 and beyond. Does Mr Van Kesteren have a reflection to offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u30	I also approach this from the choices that companies could make to go along with this policy. And then I find it fickle. Certain expectations have been raised and a certain course has been set, which is now no longer feasible, no longer correct. I think in general that if within ten years completely different choices are made, you can speak of fickleness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u31	My question was about something else. Shouldn't it be the lesson that when you set climate goals, you let that policy guide you at all times for the decisions you make. It would be very nice to hear that from Mr Van Kesteren, as spokesman for the CDA. That was not the case at the time. It was said a and b on the same day. That is not only fickle in time, but it is also very inconsistent. Shouldn't that be the most important lesson of what happened here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u32	When I judge this history, I think the most important lesson for me is that we should do these things in consultation with all the parties involved. Politics is always leading, but you cannot leave the business community out of this kind of situation. That's not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u33	I share the view that this type of policy requires consultation with as many partners as possible, but it was already clear to the coal producers that there was a CO policy, but also that they could escape it with CCS. Mr Van Kesteren also started it himself: there would have been no problem with CCS in terms of CO emissions. Only they didn't deliver, but the government didn't force it either. That's wrong on both sides, but everyone knew exactly: if you add CCS, it's okay. That consultation took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u34	Yes, but Mr Crone also knows history. The CCS project failed because the population didn't want it to happen. That is where the source of this development lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u35	That was not the case, for example, for the submarine capabilities of CCS and this is still the case, I understand from the documents. I'll come back to it myself in my term, but you'll soon leave the headline. It has at least been a shared risk, but Mr Van Kesteren said that there was a need for consultation. That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u36	That is true, but I have also noticed that the projects were abandoned at some point, and I think that coal production would no longer be politically feasible. The mutual interest and involvement are going to evaporate a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u37	No, the board knew this was coming a long time ago. This has also been emphasised by others. It was a deliberate business risk to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u38	The conclusion goes a little far, that at that time this should have been clear to the companies involved. The so far proposed should not be understood as the language of a climate skeptic. Like my group, I am convinced of the seriousness of the climate issue. In accordance with the Paris Agreement, far-reaching measures will be needed to deal with the consequences of global warming. That will require a lot of money. That is why we have recently argued in the General Financial Reviews that this should be provided for through fund-raising. In itself, we also understand the ratio of the present proposal, including the Urgenda pronunciation in mind. However, there is also a need to ensure that public policies are predictable. What does this mean for the companies concerned? I have the impression from the documents that, in the opinion of the cabinet, they should look for their future in the devoid of biomass. Biomass. If something is clear or becoming clear, it is that biomass is becoming increasingly controversial. Research carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State shows that biomass produces 20% more CO, nitrogen and fine dust emissions than coal. Research carried out by the Plan Bureau for Leefability also indicates that if coal plants switch to biomass in 2030, they will not be able to do so profitably. How consistent is it then to suggest to the companies to seek their salvation in biomass? Are they not de facto driven towards closure because there are no alternatives to coal for them? And if so, is there no expropriation and should no compensation be paid? Is there an assessment of the legal reality of any claims? Another question my group has is the question of security of supply. Can the Minister guarantee that if we close the coal plants, the supply of electricity will nevertheless be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u39	I share Mr Van Kesteren's pessimism about biomass to which these coal plants could be converted. Is he prepared to make a political statement today with us and a number of others that the conversion of coal plants into biomass plants is undesirable? How does Mr Van Kesteren see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u40	You won't hear the term "unwanted" from me. I see a huge increase in doubt about the applicability of biomass. I see that this is going to be a major problem for the power stations. It is more of a practical comment I would like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u41	For the sake of clarity, is the CDA positive about the conversion of coal plants into biomass plants, or is it negative about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u42	I was positive about this until recently, but I see the doubt increasing. For me, then, the question is how real it is. The Council of State requires a coherent climate policy from the Cabinet. The CDA Group supports this. At the same time, we must recognise that there are a lot of uncertainties about the means and instruments that you can use. What appears to be Columbus' egg at one point is considered unusable a short time later. See underground storage of CO. And you don't have to be a great seer to predict that it can go the same way with biomass. Is it not therefore appropriate to consider taking an interim step with this bill? So it is possible to opt for closure in the long term, but for example in 2025 to see what the realities are. For example, whether there are real alternatives to the use of coal by these plants? This would also give some air to the problem of possible expropriation and compensation. Please respond to this from the Minister. So far. We await the answers of the cabinet with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u43	Mr Van Kesteren's last comment raises a few questions. Can he explain, I understand, that he says that the bill can continue, that the ban on the use of coal will remain in force by 2030, but that there will be a weighting moment in 2025? How are we supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u44	The common thread in my speech is that a lot of things that we accept today for true, for use, may turn out to be different in a few years' time. That makes you need to see the decisions you make in that light. I have a strong feeling that if we re-evaluate this matter in five or six years' time, there will be all kinds of new facts that can influence decisions. I've learned from the past that what seems true changes very much. I do not think it would be wise for you to consider a moment of rethinking: where do we stand with this matter in 2025?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u45	Do I understand that the implication of this is a review in 2025, that the ban on coal consumption in 2030 will be called into question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u46	Yes, it could be if you come to the conclusion at some point that this is best given the circumstances. Then you should be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u47	And that's not fickle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u48	That's not fickle if you mention it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u49	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u50	So what is the status of the proposal we are discussing today? Is there going to be a ban or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u51	Well, I can imagine...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u52	A little ban is pretty complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u53	That is a question of further discussion. I've shown my mind. I believe that this kind of problem calls for a review, an intermediate step in a situation where the reality and availability of knowledge and instruments are changing very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be full of crap from the fickleness of the CDA. Now, perhaps, in a while, people will want coal-fired power stations again. Biomass doesn't work, I understand. The CDA is now aware of that. That seems to me to be a moving insight. I welcome that, but I thought Mr Van Kesteren was involved in VNO/NCW for a long time. I assume he is also familiar with how long-term investments and investment projects are selected and how often foreign boards look at them, with a long-term forcast. Of course, you cannot pursue erratic policies, one year this policy, coal, then no coal, and then again you can. Then you become completely unreliable as a country. Then it's going to be some kind of banana republic. We might be able to throw it into the plant. Maybe we can still generate energy from that. But I am really very surprised that Mr Van Kesteren wants to pursue such a fickle yo-yo policy. I didn't expect that from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u55	I don't hear a question. Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u56	I do not regard it as a zigzag policy or a jojo policy if you ask: what is the lesson of energy policy over the past ten to fifteen years? That is that conditions change very quickly. Then why is it so weird to say: I'm looking ahead and making a decision, but I'm reconsidering that and creating the opportunity to look at that again in a number of years? That is, I think, also in the interests of the companies involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Coal has always been an important fuel. The Romans already saw coal as a better fuel than wood, but at the time coal was also difficult to obtain. They were only actually used when they were on the earth's crust. That changed in the Middle Ages. Back then, the finiteness of wood as a fuel was already faced. You can see that none of this discussion is new under the sun. It was then that the coals were excavated that were close to the surface, mainly in the sea areas. But then came the industrial revolution. The arrival of the steam engine allowed us to extract coal from the ground as well. Coal became the main fuel in Europe and was an important driver of industrial growth. However, the coals also have a downside. For the people they have to dig and for the people who live in the area. I was in Datong, a well-known mining region in China, where literally the whole city is under carbon. Miners die of carbon lungs, or collapsing mine corridors. Coal is also one of the most polluting fuels for CO emissions. This downside has not recently become known to us. Since 1988, we know without a doubt that global warming is caused by the burning of fossil fuels. In 1998, the Kyoto targets were set, but the Dutch government opened new coal plants. A large number of parties in the then Lower House said that this was not a step in the right direction, despite the comments made at the time by Minister Brinkhorst that this choice was widely accepted. I was there, too. It's starting to be a bit of an event. "Were you there?" I was also there when Minister Brinkhorst claimed to us high and low that the opening of these new coal power stations would hardly lead to any new environmental damage, because they were so modern and could do anything. That already gave rise to a spicy discussion. That makes sense, because it was actually an objective to get rid of these coals. And yet that then minister continued, without taking the warnings seriously. How different would the world have been if we had then invested in renewable energy? Mr. Chairman. My group therefore, quite frankly, has some difficulty with the parties asking for compensation. They should have known that the power stations would not reach their 40-year life, given the fact that so much information was already available. There was no doubt that this discussion would come back. The question was: when will she come back? Perhaps they have even included the risk in their price for a long time. I would also ask the Minister whether or not agreements have been reached on the closure of power stations and on compensation or their withdrawal. The situation we are now in is the result of a sacred belief in fossil fuels, instead of investing in alternatives, alternatives that we already knew should come because of the warming up, because of the emissions, because of the finiteness of fossil and, indeed, Mr Arrowman, for geopolitical reasons. Government is forward-looking, but that cabinet turned out to be pretty nearsighted. In order to achieve this cabinet's objective of reducing CO emissions by at least 49% by 2030, the closure of coal plants is a good step, but we have to ask the right question as to whether the security of supply is maintained and how capacity here, or in other countries, is being absorbed. The Minister is planning a conversion of biomass plants. That's a fuel that we know for sure isn't always green. Whether biomass contributes to climate objectives depends on which biomass is used and under what conditions. Each type of biomass has specific properties, its own advantages and disadvantages and uncertainties. Then my question is: do we not ask ourselves a very large, rosy task? Is this gonna work? Because in order to make a good decision, we need to know all the facts and risks in the Senate. It is certain that we will never be able to use biomass climate-neutrally on all the plans that are now in place. Moreover, subsidy on biomass does not lead to climate-neutral biomass. But without subsidies, we seem to lack the impetus to use sustainable biomass. How do we solve this dilemma, I ask the Minister. What does not help is that energy generation has become a market, which means that we can no longer control these crucial elements ourselves. That's exactly what I warned you about in 2004. The cabinet is clear about the security of supply. We're not turning in, but we're going to export less. That is good, because although exports are good for the wallet, when they are associated with CO emissions, we must be cautious. But that does mean that if somewhere all the power goes away, it will be replaced by other energy generation in other countries. If that is done by lignite or by new coal plants, then we are not getting anywhere at all. Can the Minister say anything about this scenario? Because in principle we export to countries that have also signed the Paris Agreement, so they should also work on clean energy. But if the disappearance of our coal-fired power stations leads to more lignite-fired power stations, that would be an undesirable development. Has there been any consultation between the countries with which there is an Interconnector to assess the effects of our lost exports? And if not, why not? I ask this because we see that we would like to be home quickly on this file with big hauls. We need to achieve 49% reduction, and of course we are looking at fast solutions, because time is running out. But that this can lead to undesirable effects, we see when co-incineration of wood in biomass. My group welcomes the motion recently adopted by the Party for Animals Group, which has stopped subsidising new projects of wood-burning in biomass plants or in coal-fired power stations. However, current projects may continue. What possibilities does the Minister see to stop all the wood-screwing now? This cabinet opts for a slow closure, over a period of ten years, in order to avoid compensation. But I would remind the Minister of his promise to have 49% reduction in CO emissions by 2030. We're not gonna make it! Why doesn't this cabinet opt for an earlier closure? Is money the only reason? And if so, how does the Minister judge our view that this is actually part of the entrepreneurial risk? There is a much cleaner alternative that we could use temporarily, in the form of the gas plants. We can start this up to capture the peak. The Minister says that this start-up takes too long, but start-up takes up to two years, and can therefore also provide for earlier closure. Then we can stop using wood. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, my group would like to draw attention once again to the people who have not played a role in this debate, but who are being put at a disadvantage, namely the staff. There is still a great concern for my group, Minister. They will be hard hit by the loss of their jobs. The closure of the coal mines in Limburg is still a trauma. And even though this is incomparable to shutting down the power stations now, let's at least provide good guidance to other jobs. The coal fund is finally coming. My group also welcomes this. I'd like to know what's going on with this fund. Can the Minister tell us what progress has been made? This fund is also an important step in dealing with the inevitable adverse effects of the transition of energy, namely the loss of jobs in old energy. Mr President, I will conclude. Stopping coal is a good step, a step which my group welcomes. Unfortunately, it is also a step that my party had foreseen. We've expressed our concerns then, and we're expressing them here now. There were indeed strong signals at the time, and they were waved away, as I say to Mr Arrowman. We can learn lessons from this democratic process. And only then will it make sense to look the cow in the ass. I sincerely hope that this Minister will now take a serious look at our concerns so that we can avoid another debacle. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mrs Huizinga-Heringa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill we are talking about is to ban the burning of coal to generate electricity in the long term. Of course, we support the cabinet's efforts to reduce CO emissions. That's the background to this bill. At the same time, we experience many absurdities. In order to emit less CO, the cabinet subsidises biomass that, as it turns out, is more polluting and more CO emissions from combustion. In the long term, state-of-the-art coal power plants will no longer be able to devoid of coal, but to have enough electricity, we may import electricity from less efficient and more polluting power plants. We have questions about that. Mr. Chairman. My group also has some questions about the ways in which the Minister is going to achieve his goal of reducing CO emissions. The background to this law is the great threat posed by climate change to our world and to our way of life. The fact that CO emissions have a major impact on the increase in the average temperature on Earth is certain. To keep large parts of our world liveable, the strict reduction of CO emissions is top priority. That is the alarming reality, and at the same time perhaps somewhat chewed out. Coal plants make an important contribution to our electricity supply. How do we maintain security of supply after 2030 is my question, and a question that the Council of State also asks. The minister's sketching a complex picture. He puts his maps on biomass, alternative forms like wind and sun, supply from abroad and gas. There's pain here, or at least tension. We ban coal-burning to reduce CO emissions, but we run the risk of emitting even more CO with the alternative of biomass. Biomass may become renewable, and on paper emissions become zero, but everyone knows that a tree burns up much faster than it grows. Burning up is a matter of minutes, growing takes about twenty to one hundred years. The PBL also provides for a scarcity of biomass from 2030 onwards. How real is the share of biomass in the mix? The Minister's response that he has monitored availability does not convince us. Our economy isn't based on reports, it's on electricity. I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. Many billions of subsidies have already been committed for the use of biomass in power plants. 3.5 billion for wood pallets in coal-fired power stations alone. For reasons of legal certainty, the Minister says that these awards will be respected. We respect that. But doesn't the Minister really think that these subsidies are a bit sad? All these billions, on paper, reduce CO2 emissions, but not in reality. As mentioned above, the PBL expects scarcity from 2030 onwards. How does the Minister judge this? Mr. Chairman. Last week I was in Nieuwspoort, at a LTO meeting on the solutions of the agricultural sector to reduce nitrogen emissions. That was where wonderful plans came along, which relate to circular agriculture: reuse of waste materials, biomass as a soil improver. Surely it is eternally sinful that material that offers so many opportunities for circular agriculture in large quantities is fired up in a power station? Does this not blur the difference between sustainable and unsustainable biomass? We are all in favour of circular agriculture, which reuses organic residues and waste. Do not misunderstand my group: we believe that biomass from residual products can be burned to turn it into energy. But it is in the knowledge that burning biomass for electricity production is the least interesting use of biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u61	I very much agree with that. You should actually avoid burning biomass. The concerns expressed by Mrs Huizinga-Heringa here are ours. Would it not then be logical, pending the sustainability framework of the PBL, the ESC opinion and the cabinet position in which all this should come together, to refrain from issuing new decisions for SDE subsidies for biomass applications?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u62	I will wait for the Minister's answers before I can respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u63	Surely it is a logical consequence that you are not making it worse, or that you are accidentally making wrong choices in subsidies, in line with what Mrs Huizinga-Heringa is putting forward here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u64	That seems logical, but the experience has taught me that sometimes there are answers that shed light on another side that you had not thought of. I await the Minister's answer. After that, I'll respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u65	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u66	Much more interesting and sustainable is the use of biomass as a soil improver, food, construction wood and furniture. You understand that I look forward to the new sustainability framework that the ESC and the PBL will come up with at the beginning of next year, hopefully with a lot of attention to the so-called cascading. Of course, it would have been better if we could have dealt with this law with this sustainability framework next to it. That is a missed opportunity for my group. In the reply, the Minister states that a sustainability framework has a side effect on this bill, because the subsidy of biomass in the coal-fired power stations is already subject to strict conditions. That may be the case, but for a future without coal-burning, it is important to identify the possibilities and potentials of sustainable biomass use. After all, we do not want to be deprived of biomass in the future that could have been better used as a soil improver, for example. When will this sustainability framework be ready? As part of the security of supply, there will need to be a stable, adjustable basic burden to meet the demand for electricity. Sun and wind don't deliver on foggy days, we use power. In order to meet demand, we can use electricity from abroad, which is generated much less energy efficiently. This is detrimental, because it produces a disproportionate amount of CO emissions and possibly other pollution. Not in the Netherlands, but abroad. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the following. Gas is fossil, but produces much less CO emissions than biomass or coal, because it is high energy. This makes it an attractive source of combustion in relation to coal and a number of biomass streams. Does the Minister agree with me? How many of the loss of production of coal plants could take over gas plants, including those currently in the mothballs? In addition, I have the question of whether the Minister will see developments in the future that would make CCS possible and/or profitable at gas plants. Mr. Chairman. If there is anything that makes this bill clear, it is the importance of European cooperation in reducing CO emissions. The Netherlands has planned to comply with a certain percentage reduction in those emissions. Our intention leads to the closure of coal-fired power stations. However, in order to maintain security of supply, we may need to extract electricity from abroad, which is accompanied by relatively high CO emissions. Within our national borders, we are doing more or less well, but our good behaviour will result in extra high emissions elsewhere. The mechanism for increasing the price of CO emissions from electricity production also leads to shipwreck if neighbouring countries do not do the same, writes the Minister. It is not just a matter of keeping to its intentions, it is a matter of drastically reducing emissions globally, first of all at European level. What is the Minister's view of cooperation in Europe? Does he take steps to achieve more cooperation? Much has been said about the legal position of coal power stations in relation to this law. In particular, whether this law could ultimately operate as an expropriation law or closure law for these plants. The Minister is telling us that this is not the case. We have no choice but to follow him, relying on the expertise of his legal officials. And so does the Council of State. However, my group would like to ask the Minister to reflect on this once again, given that it will not be possible for coal plants to switch to biomass or to another fuel in 2030 in a cost-effective and sustainable way. Mr. Chairman. In addition to criticism, the Council of State also clearly notes that the proposed coal ban is an appropriate measure in the light of reductions in CO emissions. My group shares this view of the Council of State, but we do have a number of urgent questions for the Minister. I look forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. You're thinking, of course, that we've had it all. But I still have two new points. I have also cut myself in fingers, because when speaking time was divided, everyone had far too much. The first thing I said was that I'm halving to 15 minutes. And here I am: everyone has taken twenty minutes. But I will try to limit myself to those fifteen minutes, because some apparently did not have time to write a shorter contribution, as you know. I place this in the focus of Schumpeter's creative destruction. Known by now, but I graduated from it. Schumpeter has already shown: the economy is mainly about innovation and entrepreneurship, which is hard to grasp, as an entrepreneur's son and father of a young entrepreneur. I think that's the undertone that's in here. Sometimes it seems as if we are talking here about how we maintain existing companies. Of course that is important, but that is too limited a perspective. We stand here for social interests and not necessarily for the maintenance of individual companies. The approach we, the PvdA Group, are taking on this bill is a positive one, because we all know that without global coal production we will never achieve the Paris objectives and also Urgenda. This has been explained once again by everyone, and also by the cabinet. Well, that's for sure. That's what we have to do. Then it is indeed acidic that sometimes brand new installations need to be terminated, before they might have planned it themselves. But speaking of creative destruction, you can see that this world-wide trend is already going on. I believe that Mr Vendrik said it: there are almost no more coal plants in black, they are all in red. I read last week that even in India and China, the growth in the number of coal plants is falling dramatically, because they also find that it is simply not economically profitable. So, please, let's all take a look at the trend in the economy, and not just at the square stamp of a number of other important companies. The profitability will therefore be reduced automatically. I am also curious about the answers to Mr Vendrik's questions about the calculations in that regard and how that will be done. I'll come back to that at the end. This is, of course, partly due to the cost shift towards alternative, more sustainable energy sources. But gas has also become much cheaper, because there is a lot more gas available worldwide, also demonstrably, via LNV and so on, also in our country. It has become much more competitive than previously thought and above all, the CO price has taken a higher flight than anticipated. That too is a disadvantage in the competition for coal. These are quite natural, normal economic developments. The Stone Age didn't end either because we were short of stones. The word 'coal' also contains stones, but that is also the issue here: sooner or later coal will end and alternative sources will be more efficient. We, as a Schumpeterian, give this innovation a little push. It is important for the environment, but it is not more or less. But there are also some reservations, because it is not good enough for the workers. They have so far received little attention in this debate, except for the SP and D66. It is particularly important for employees to be able to experience this process. I would like to ask the Minister specifically whether this is well arranged. We understand that it is settled for the closure on 1 January next, but are there any agreements with the social partners in the pipeline for the other power stations, which are due to be closed later? And are there any additional agreements to be made on top of the normal labour market instruments? For the companies themselves, much has been said about legal liability and possible compensation for the producers concerned. We share the general view expressed by the Minister in the documents and which has also been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives. This is not a question of expropriation, but of new environmental regulations, with a reasonable, even generous transitional period and therefore also time-limit for adaptation. This is always the case in many sectors. From my long history in environmental policy, that is always a valid discussion, but I think that in this case the weighing up of the cabinet can be supported. There is a reasonable payback period and, for the rest, as regards the discussion on biomass, we will wait and see what the new frameworks will yield through BPL and SER, which we will also discuss here afterwards. Maybe I can make a suggestion? Biomass is not biomass; there are many categories. Biomass is just stored solar energy. If the stowing occurs within a short period of time after it is stored or stored. Otherwise, it would quickly rot into CO, then it would fit perfectly, even in a period of ten or twenty years. But when it comes to long-term projects, of course, everyone comes here with primordial forests that we're going to cut for biomass, and that's a very wrong time frame. Can the Minister help us with a schedule of the different types of biomass? I would recommend that you all eat a lot later, because if you have eaten a lot, biogas can be recovered from the sewage treatment tomorrow. That's better than when methane goes into the air. So if you have a generous dinner later, there will be extra biogas in the Netherlands tomorrow. That is, of course, a fine biomass; it looks like pig manure and that is just about what it is. In this respect, I would like to sober up the debate on biomass and, above all, focus on what is to be gained and lost, because precisely on this point Mr Katan's excellent piece of work did not go into yesterday. For example, the time phase: how long do you have a CO debt or.q. When are you gonna release him? Let's go back to the companies. I haven't heard anyone say it yet, but a study has been published by Follow the Money, which apparently received the minutes of Uniper's executive meetings from 2008, the moment of decision about their plant. This shows that they were well aware of the risks, both the risk of CO, of normal market prices and of CCS. I'm gonna walk by all three of them. By the way, without those minutes being leaked, these very professional companies really know what is on the market and they also follow very clearly what is happening in politics, to the square millimeters. After all, we all received new information this morning. So without leaking it, I can very well follow the reasoning in that article. However, it is enlightening that they apparently assumed, according to those minutes, that the CO price did not have to be paid and that they would be exempt from the CO price. This is because in Germany when the discussion took place to do so. That didn't happen. But that is entrepreneurial risk; they have misjudged what could happen and so the CO price has become much higher than expected. They assumed that energy prices were falling. The sale of electricity would result in much higher prices, so the company's sales have not been realised. Every entrepreneur must determine every day what price he will pay next year. What does the competitor do? Do I need something up or something down? It's just been a mistake. It happens. My son is an entrepreneur, and everyone knows you have to do 20 projects if one is to succeed. This is clearly the case here: this type of company invests a lot and sometimes something goes wrong. The third error is CCS. Of course they wanted CCS, including politics, but no one has legally committed that it would be there and that it would be a debinding condition not to build, or that if the government would disrupt it, they would get compensation for it. They were therefore good intentions, I believe, in terms of intention, but the fact that it did not happen is an entrepreneurial risk. For example, an entrepreneur also estimates whether to expand his gas station, because there are more cars on the road. Then everyone drives 100 km/h, there is less fuel consumption and you sell less fuel. That's all in the game. The CO price, the normal selling price and CCS are therefore normal business risks. They knew that in 2008; the leaked minutes confirm that. But I know these people, you know them all: they know about the hat and the edge. They are entrepreneurs and looking at market conditions and public policy. So the question to the Minister should not be: why compensation? These are entrepreneurial risks. In view of the trend of already declining profits or profits, we should, in particular: Even increasing losses, do they compensate for losses? Isn't it true that the power stations are already closing down because the market is releasing them, a good word in this respect, because the market no longer has room for this coal fuel at normal prices without subsidies? I read on the left and right that every year they run less full hours than the year before. If that continues, they will close in three, four or five years, without biomass, without subsidies, and so on. What guarantee can the Minister give that they won't get any loss compensation? If there is anything to be compensated, again, I do not think it is necessary and the Minister has said something about it too. Surely it is not a big question of loss compensation? By the way, this is also a constant factor among entrepreneurs: entrepreneurs are always affected by the government, but if risks can be passed on, we have seen that in the banks. In this case, the government is just the taxpayer. In this respect, we are seriously underestimating the business risk in this discussion. We shouldn't be pulling all the problems at us either. The government doesn't cause all the problems, but she can't solve them all either. Then there is my final point. This concerns the international dimension. I agree with everyone who has said: it is a pity that we now have to do this in the Netherlands, with an efficient power station, while the power stations in Germany are less efficient and remain open for longer. A coal austrategy has been agreed in Germany, but it is still a shame. I asked the Minister in writing whether it is not possible, as there is a bilateral discussion going on between Mrs Merkel, Prime Minister Rutte, Minister Wiebes and Mr Altmaier, to discuss whether this could not be resolved better. Can we not be an example in Europe and together, cross-border, develop a better coal-stop programme? We will then continue to use coal for longer because we have the most efficient power plant. This is detrimental to our coal accounts, but it can also bring an economic advantage. They will then close coal plants and have a CO advantage. It seems to me that this is a matter of Burden Sharing, both in terms of CO knowledge and in terms of its costs. At least that's worth a shot. Last night Frans Timmermans, the new Vice-President of the European Commission, in charge of the green deal, held the Den Uyl lecture in the Red Hat. Afterwards I asked: Isn't this a good idea? Would you like to do something with that as a Commissioner? Of course I cannot quote him, but I think the Minister can try to travel to Brussels and take this initiative, together with Mr Altmaier. I say this in all seriousness, because, of course, we are all doing this for a CO target which is global and which knows no borders. What we're doing so far is we're following the CO accounting, and that's why we're closing this. We should, because there is no alternative unless this option is explored by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u69	If this option were to be explored by the Minister, we would have to wait with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u70	Well, I don't think anyone would mind. In that sense, like Mr Van Kesteren, I always want to move along with developments. We can just pass the law. I do not think that companies would mind at all if they were allowed to stay open for longer in any way. We are talking about the period until 2030. So I am not saying that this has to be done after 2030, because the closure of coal is already happening in part before 2030. Let's just wait and see. Now that we have a proposal here that everyone likes and everyone has said "why aren't we doing it internationally?', Then the first thing we do is put a bear on the road. I do not know Mr Schalk like that, so I am sure you mean to support me with this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u71	Before I support initiatives, I would first like to know if they are exactly what I suspected. I have the impression that Mr Van Kesteren has just made a different proposal than Mr Crone is making. If we ask the Minister to do a reconnaissance, as he has suggested, I cannot escape the impression that we are moving too fast by adopting this law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u72	Again, until 2030, I see no problem at all. That's the deadline in this law. If it's any different, I'll get it from the Minister. Let's take the time to find that new way out. I won't say "the third way out." If the Minister says in six months' time that he's taken care of it, no one's gonna say that we can't, because we've passed a law, so we're not gonna do that anymore? I am also counting on the broad support of our international thinkers. We're all international thinkers, you lead the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u73	If I understand correctly, you suggest that we look at whether we cannot shape the closure of coal in a different way from the way we are doing it here alone. Several parties have argued that we have the most modern coal power stations in Europe here. They're affected by this law. Such a consultation could lead to the possibility that it would be better to close down very polluting coal or lignite plants elsewhere in Europe earlier. If that's what you're suggesting, while we commit to this law, we're way too early, aren't we? That argument is justified, isn't it? Then it may be that we want to close these state-of-the-art power stations later because other countries shut down much more polluting power stations earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u74	I'm not ruling out any options. Let me say that in advance. I want to be creative in the solutions. I have one goal: less CO worldwide. It may be that it is already being decided in Madrid, whether or not Europe alone, to accelerate the increase in CO prices. That would be desirable. Then my scenario is even more logical: these companies will shut down, whether we want it or not. So the question is whether we should give them loss compensation. That is the main route: more CO taxation for the whole of Europe, in any way. The second route I am proposing, which is new, is to see if we can make a start together in Europe with Germany to do something. Surely there are countless discussions in Europe about two speeds, leading groups, runaways and stragglers? Can't we be the breakaway here? May I remind you, by the way, that Mrs Merkel was Minister for the Environment at the time of Kyoto? I have always understood that she is so passionate about all these things because she herself knows very well what is going on. I really mean it as a very serious option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u75	But being a frontrunner and leading group is a bit strange when it is full of lignite plants and polluting coal plants elsewhere in Europe. Then it would be strange to close the least polluting power stations here as a frontrunner of that group as a matter of urgency. Mr Crone can't be serious, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u76	I thought my proposal was to shut down the dirtier power stations first. That is the essence of my proposal. Only then will they say: who will pay for this closure and who will provide jobs there? So they have an economic problem and we have a CO problem, because we get more CO in the accounts. You should never negotiate if you agree, but just when you need to align some differences of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u77	If you really think so, then we can go along with that, but you really must vote against this law now. Otherwise we are going to do it now and have a very bad negotiating position to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u78	If we voted against this law, we'd have nothing. So let's do this quietly as it is. Let us enter into negotiations optimistically, but also realistically, because I do not know whether it will succeed. It surprises me, because you've always taken that one dimensional dimension as your starting point. I think "now I have something to offer" and then you're gonna be the first to get in the way, but I might have to take that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u79	I was intrigued by Mr Crone's remark that he is a supporter of Schumpeter with his creative destruction. Particularly striking, because that is of course an Austrian economist of the neoclassical cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u80	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u81	Well, there's a difference of opinion. I went into Schumpeter a while ago, too, so I was triggered by that. His famous book is Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy. What Schumpeter particularly insisted on in creative destruction is innovation. I think he called it the neue Kombinations that then put people in the market. Take the example of the iPhone. It wasn't there at first, but it came because Steve Jobs figured out that he wanted a little thing that had everything in it and that he could operate with a finger. We have the iPhones among the coal plants in the world. Nowhere in the world do they have cleaner, more environmentally friendly and more efficient coal plants. We have the iPhones under the coal plants and you want to throw them away. You want to go back to the Nokia 20 years ago. What's the logic behind that? I don't understand. Then we are going to close the right power stations here to keep 30% efficiency plants in Poland on lignite? At least that has nothing to do with Schumpeter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u82	Your reasoning about Schumpeter is correct, but the example is not. The reasoning is correct. Schumpeter was from the s-curve. A product starts very small, is not quite okay and there is no market for it. You always miss investment capital for that. But at some point, they start to grow and then they grow really hard. Then there will be a ripeness phase. In ten years' time, everyone will be wondering why we've ever made fossil fuel cars. That's the creative destruction. The coal plants are now at the end of their life cycle. But Mr Otten's example is a wrong one. Kodak has always thought that they would make even better film, with even more grains, power, solutions and opportunities to develop faster, but the other innovation, digital photography, went much faster. They underestimated that. That's what you see happening here. Everyone always underestimates his own capacity to innovate when he has an interest in not renewing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u83	I would like to make a comment on that. We all know the examples of Nokia and Kodak, but this is an innovative, modern coal power plant which is closed down as a result of government policy and which therefore becomes economically uneconomical. That has nothing to do with innovation, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u84	Perhaps my reasoning is that these power stations will close sooner or later. Such a modern plant has been sold for 200 million. You're from the market. One entrepreneur really doesn't give a gift to another: actually it's worth a billion, but you get it for 200 million. So the market price is only 200 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u85	Because of that government policy, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u86	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u87	When I say yellow cars are taxed three times as heavily, no one buys a yellow car anymore, right? That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u88	But that also applies to the petrol pump holder that is on a road that is being knocked down. Then you're out of customers. There's always a phaser. The Minister explained that very well. You've got disadvantage compensation as far as it can be proven, but you're not gonna compensate a sector that's already losing anyway. I'm afraid we're more in agreement than we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u90	Mr. Chairman. My group would first of all like to thank the Minister and his team for all the answers they have given to the series of questions that have been asked, and above all for the information the Minister has given in his recent letter of Parliament on biomass. There were so many questions, there are several reasons. Matter is complex. The answers at first instance were not always clear and sometimes even evasive. In short, it should not come as a surprise that many questions have been asked during this consultation. I will add a few more, just to make sure that we come to an informed decision. There is also a personal reason why I have asked so many questions on my part. About fifteen years ago, I was at the cradle of the laws and regulations on biomass, as was finally proposed by the European Commission. The Commission was flooded with questions and well-intentioned advice. At the time, my conclusion was and still is that biomass can only be seen as sustainable under very strict conditions and that biomass should not lead to tribulation of food production, which was a legitimate fear in companies such as Unilever and related industries. This is also a legitimate fear of developing countries, which were already faced with a huge rise in food prices at the time. Biomass has such low energy intensity that you need masses of it to keep some power plants running and running. Green biomass is only available in sufficient quantities if we do not all switch to masse. Biomass requires a huge recording device to ensure that it is actually green mass used. In fact, it can only be encouraged by linking subsidies to them; in the Netherlands, with over EUR 10 billion, and that is not small money. Two questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u91	Yes, but first a question to Mr Van Ballekom. We've already talked about the fickleness at the CDA. We had the Koffeman motion a few weeks ago to stop the biomass subsidy. We immediately supported it as a GO and it was also widely worn, except by the VVD. When I heard your speech against biomass and against subsidies, I thought: why didn't you support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u92	My group chairman made it clear that the Koffeman motion was not supported by my group at the time because it was an existing government policy and unnecessary motions were not supported by the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u93	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u94	I have two questions for the Minister in this regard. Are the conclusions I drew 15 years ago on the validity of biomass still valid and what is the subsidy amount? Can the Minister confirm that that whole amount, as mentioned in the further reply, has been fully committed? It is true that there is hope that not everything will be spent, but that is less relevant to me. I want to know if the total amount mentioned, 14.3 billion, is fully committed. With this in mind, there will be a bill on your plate that will require the two most efficient coal plants to stop using coal for electricity production. It should also be noted that a significant part of the CO reduction achieved is leaking because elsewhere the electricity that we will then import is produced in a less clean way. You will understand, Mr President, that I really wonder if that could be smarter. Of course it could have been smarter. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, also according to the VVD, CO emissions should be drastically reduced. In the long term, the use of fossil fuels must be stopped, especially if there is no CO capture, but the transition from fossil to sustainable must be socially feasible. The transition can only be achieved successfully with sufficient support and is only affordable for robust economic growth. Unfortunately, every energy source or energy carrier has its specific disadvantages, and I have heard the Minister say this during a debate. Personally, I am absolutely convinced that, despite all the good will and subsidies, we cannot keep the business running on solar and wind energy alone. And I do not want to go into the space disposal of wind farms and solar parks and the disadvantages associated with the production method and what to do with the non-recyclable waste released after a relatively short depreciation period. Those are problems we're gonna have to deal with later. To give you an impression, the largest energy park in the Netherlands covers 117 hectares, on which 316.000 solar panels are placed. And that is potentially enough to power Hoogezand-Sappemeer. Potentially, because these energy forms are not demand-driven but supply-driven. This is a space occupation of more than 250 football fields, talking about nature reserves and nature conservation. I think we'd have a better destination for all these acres. It is only potentially sufficient so if necessary there must be a backup somewhere. How many hectares and solar panels do we talk about if we want to supply the city of Amsterdam with electricity in this way? Then how can it be smarter, you'll ask. The VVD has asked questions as to whether it would not be wise to facilitate CO capture, storage and reuse. Previous projects have not continued and the ROAD project has been discontinued, partly because of long-term uncertainty, also because there may be nothing left to catch when coal plants are closed. There is also resistance to using CCS, because it would only extend the use of fossil fuels, as we heard this morning. That may be the case in theory, but our common goal is to reduce CO emissions. Furthermore, perhaps it would have been wise, just to buy time, Minister, to reduce CO through the so-called Kyoto credits, but the government does not consider that appropriate. In response to one of the questions, the government states that the electricity system can be powered by CO-free and adjustable production in a number of ways, namely electricity from CO-free hydrogen, renewable sources such as biomass or green gas, from fossil sources where CO is captured, or from nuclear energy. I ask the Minister how he sees it. The production of CO-free hydrogen costs an enormous amount of energy and that is also in the future. Renewable sources such as biomass are limited. As the questions have been answered: CO capture is not achieved on a large scale in the Netherlands either. Then, in fact, only nuclear energy remains. Do you think the government's gonna put a massive amount of money into this? If this were to be the case and facilitated by the government, it should be feasible by 2030. The Minister states that it is his commitment not to grant subsidies to any form of variable capital. Is it necessary to conclude that this does apply to unregulated power? Then I wonder, as a layman, what is the advantage of unstable power over adjustable power. I don't see it, but I'm sure the Minister can tell me about it. Will the Minister explain again why the adoption of this law should take place before the end of the year? The Hemwegcentrale definitely closes before the end of the year, so the owners have let us know, so we are already there. The other most efficient plants will close in time. Is it really important to shorten the transitional period by two or three months? Why the question, Mr. Chairman? My group would have liked to have the sustainability framework announced by the Minister for the first quarter of next year and the ESC opinion and the information with which the Planning Office for the Environment comes. This is important because everything falls or stands with sufficient availability of green biomass, now and in the future. According to the Minister, there are also alternatives that operators can use for plants, again referring to biomass, renewable gases, ammonia, iron powder and hydrogen. Can the Minister indicate whether these alternatives are attractive from an environmental point of view and how hydrogen can be used as an alternative fuel? I thought it was a product, but okay, I could be wrong. In the answers, the Minister states that coal plants will naturally produce less because they will be loss-making in the long term. Against this background, there is no right to compensation. This has also been underlined on several occasions by Mr Crone. Does the Minister envisage strengthening the European ETS system in this context? Given this loss-making situation, which is only becoming more loss-making, even without this law, wouldn't the power stations stop producing themselves and perhaps even before 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u95	I hear you say in your comments that you want CO reduction on the one hand, because we need it, but on the other hand you are very critical of all the alternatives actually. Solar energy, wind energy, you name it, you're critical of it. What should be done to achieve this reduction in CO emissions? This is the most efficient way in itself, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u96	I think I may doubt that, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u97	Would you both like to talk through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u98	I am very much in favour of solar panels when they can be placed on the roofs of football stadiums, so if they are sufficiently strong and do not collapse. I have good friends who are committed to ensuring that all roofs of offices and other buildings are covered with solar panels. I also visited a company in Eindhoven, where I come from. This makes it possible for solar energy coatings to be rolled out as wallpaper in the future. I am very much in favour of that. I am also absolutely convinced that we will not get there by one-sided use of the sun and wind. They're part of it. I think and am firmly convinced since the beginning that we need a balanced energy mix to bridge those 20, 25 or 30 years that we have before we can really switch to renewable energy. I think, but that is with 'hindsight', which of course is always beautiful, that maybe fifteen years ago we should have decided to keep that 14.3 billion in our pocket and put two units in the Eemshaven and Borssele. They are cheaper and have a depreciation period of 60 to 70 years. That would have been a lot wiser. Solar energy fits in, but I find it very annoying that more than 117 hectares of land is needed to provide electricity to a city, no matter how large it is, from Hoogezand-Sappemeer. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u99	No, I agree with you. No one in this room will think that you can power the Netherlands with that flat use of solar energy. The need for an energy mix is also a policy of government; that is not new. I am glad that I have caused this interruption, because I have actually only heard criticism of everything. I didn't hear what you wanted to bet on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u100	At least you know that now. Nuclear energy is an important part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u101	Maybe that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u102	Finally, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u103	This morning I reported that the way in which nuclear power is currently being rolled out in Britain is certainly not a success. All deadlines and previously committed subsidies have been exceeded and it is still not working!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u104	What's your question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u105	My question is why Mr Van Ballekom is so enthusiastic about this, while the British Government must also give an electricity price guarantee that does not outweigh other energy carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u106	I was involved in the construction and design of that power plant from a previous position. I think the British Government made a mistake. I always said at the time that, if the European Investment Bank wanted to invest in it, I would like to buy techniques that were ready on the shelf. That's the big difference, even in time and money. You always have to buy off the shelf. We made an investment in an airport in Berlin. Now the Germans are of course known as very efficient, but after 25 years there is no airport open. This is only because we are buying techniques that still have to be developed, while there are alternatives to prevent that misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u107	December is traditionally a gloomy month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u108	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u109	I'm trying to bring some lightness. Mr Van Ballekom has undoubtedly read the Climate Agreement and thus also the chapter on Electricity, a brilliant chapter. There is a very nice perspective for wind at sea. That will be the powerhouse of the Netherlands, on its way to 2030 and beyond. 70% of the total electricity demand in the Netherlands comes from far away at sea, with animals of machines: technological innovation, Schumpeter in capital letters!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u110	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u111	If Mr Van Ballekom needs more perspective, will we ask this Minister today to step up his efforts, to embrace that North Sea agreement and not just to roll out the 11.5 gigawatt that is already in the plans, but also to go straight to a higher ambition? Then some of the concerns, which he rightly expresses here in his own right, will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u112	Mr Vendrik fully endorses my commitment. When you talk about a good energy mix, wind energy is part of it. However, I must say that offshore wind farms have a much faster depreciation time than a nuclear power plant and that there are enormous disadvantages, including environmental ones. That is why I agree with the Ministers that no energy source or carrier has only negative effects. They all have their advantages and disadvantages, including wind energy. So that's what that's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u113	That's so interesting right now. Nothing's perfect. What is? That's just not the point. The point is that there is now an agreement, a draft agreement, with all those involved in the North Sea and with a shared ambition. What's more beautiful than hugging this place together today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u114	If we all come to the conclusion that this ambition is wonderful, then we must try to achieve it. But of course you should never put it under the seats or benches if there are problems with the agreements that have been put on paper. I can imagine one party thinking about it and the other party thinking about it. Again, I'm sure we're not gonna make it if we just turn on sun and wind. Moreover, the IPCC admits that in the Netherlands it is not possible to run CO-free without the use of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u115	I welcome Mr Van Ballekom's critical consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u116	It belongs to my party, my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u117	Okay, from the fraction of the VVD. She is in stark contrast to the coverage of the party leader of the VVD, who is playing the climate pope in Madrid. That's a quote from the A.D. I have a question. In the previous debate, your colleague, Mr Arbouw, pointed out that enormous capital destruction was an argument for not letting that Radar Exchange take place. In fact, my question to you is: do you think that closing these coal power stations means a massive destruction of capital? If so, why is this not a decisive argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u118	That is why I asked the Minister these questions. If these coal plants can be converted and turned purely and exclusively to green biomass, that seems to me to be a good alternative. But we must be sure that it is green biomass, otherwise it will not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u119	Green biomass? I am pleased that Mr Van Ballekom says that there must be strict conditions for its use, because we have received all kinds of reports about the large-scale tree hood that is taking place for biomass plants in the Netherlands. I am very curious about Mr Van Ballekom's view on this. Does he agree with the Animal Party that this large-scale tree hood should be excluded when it comes to using biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u120	I have noted from the Minister's reports that waste wood is used purely and exclusively and that there is no such thing as a huge tree hood. It doesn't produce woods. I also understand that no wood was imported from America in 2018. We must, of course, read these reports very carefully and not interpret them unilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u121	That's right. That's right. In 2018 we were between two grant phases, hence there was no import of trees. Could Mr Van Ballekom support our request for further research into the origin of woody biomass used in biomass plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u122	Yes, that is why I asked the Minister in my contribution whether it is really important to complete it all this month and whether we cannot wait two or three months until we have the results of his sustainability study, the report of the ESC and the findings of the Planning Bureau for the Environment. I'd rather have. If the Minister says there's no way, I'd like to be convinced. I'm sure he'll try to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u123	A final remark, a bit fickle. Mr Van Ballekom agrees with me that these reports in the government's sustainability framework should also clarify the origin of biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u124	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u125	I was intrigued by Mr Van Ballekom's remark, which is beginning to make a yawn when I take the microphone, but it will not have a causal link.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u126	No, but you often ask for the familiar road. But okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u127	You were talking about proven technology, so indeed the familiar way. That's something that really appealed to me. Now I have been informed by a number of people from the dredging industry. They say that we are going further and further into the North Sea with the windmills, even deeper and deeper. That's getting more and more risky. In a number of years, the foundations may not last at all. Among other things, the CEO of Boskalis made a number of remarks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u128	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u129	In addition, huge investments are needed in the transmission networks, also in order to get the flow further and further from the sea here. We have recently seen in the press that there is late maintenance of TenneT's networks. Networks are also becoming increasingly decentralised, leading to all kinds of supply problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u130	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u131	How can Mr Van Ballekom reconcile that with his story that he so believes in proven technology? These are experimental technologies, with great risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u132	Now, Mr. Otten, that's as follows. I have also implicitly said this to Mr Vendrik. I believe in an energy mix. So if Mr Vendrik says we need gas on offshore wind farms, I don't believe in that. I do not think that we can make very much progress. Of course, the technology is moving forward, but also the profitability, or the less eligible of wind farms, has changed dramatically over the past ten years. And that's how it goes on. But still, no matter how far the technique goes, I don't think it's gonna work, and it's also unwise to put all kinds of eggs in one basket. That is why we have called for the widest possible energy base, so that the economy in the Netherlands is not affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u133	You were just talking about the cost of nuclear power stations. It was explained that wrong choices were made in England, which made the costs so high. Earlier today, I said that there is already so much CO emissions in the entire production process of a nuclear power plant that nuclear power plants are not really a CO-friendly solution at all. How does Mr Van Ballekom view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u134	That's what I heard you say. That was this morning, I believe. All the studies indicate that nuclear energy is the best CO-technically possible. You shouldn't have the illusion that all the 316,000 solar panels in Hoogezand-Sappemeer are produced neatly and how much more are to be added. It's known what's not necessary for that. This also applies to the waste that we will be getting from offshore wind farms, whose wicks are also produced with fossil fuel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u135	Sure. Of course, we must always compare this with each other and then look at what is the best solution. You don't know the investigation. I can send it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u136	Of course. Absolutely. I'm interested in all the investigations, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u137	I heard for the third or fourth time in this house today that the energy mix may also need to look at nuclear energy. Something has just been said about England. I am very curious as to what Mr Van Ballekom and our minister probably think of nuclear waste. The radioactive waste is a huge problem. Does Mr Van Ballekom have a view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u138	I have a vision for that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u139	CO is also a problem. If we compare these two, if we are going to talk about a mix, then I would like us to talk about the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u140	Could you briefly summarize your vision, Mr. Van Ballekom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u141	I can fill a whole afternoon here, but I wasn't going to, because the Minister will come up with all the answers to the questions that have been asked. I am well aware that waste is also produced, but that is relatively little. We have been involved in the plans for the construction of a nuclear power plant in Finland. The Finnish government says it wants to have disposal of the waste. Why does the Finnish government want to keep it at its disposal? Because that Finnish plant is fired with waste from French plants. So the Finns say that perhaps in 20 years or 25 years the technology has progressed so much that we can feed another nuclear power plant with fuel with the waste we are producing. That seems to me to be a very useful view of the Finns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u142	Were it not that you used the word "maybe." These substances remain dangerous for hundreds of thousands of years for all life. So before I turn to nuclear energy, I would like to have a clear answer to that. Mr Van Ballekom does not give that answer either. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u143	My real dream, even in December, and that is not just malheur, Mr Vendrik, fortunately life is not just malheur.................................................................................................................................................... In that sense, of course, we are rid of all the problems. However, I do not think I can be sure, Mr Gerbrandy, that nuclear waste will remain extremely dangerous for hundreds of thousands of years. In all likelihood, that's something else. But I could be wrong about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u144	A brief addition by Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u145	I would like to give Mr Van Ballekom, at least in December, all the radiant thoughts about nuclear energy. But do we agree that it is never the intention that a government, the Dutch government, should have a massive blow to keep this kind of power station alive, structuralally and permanently? With the whole renewable conversion, we are going to get rid of subsidies. That's the idea. Grants are temporary. Is that also the starting point of the VVD in nuclear energy? Temporarily, at most, for technology that's been around for 70 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u146	A brief answer and then we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u147	I said it might be very good to facilitate it. That's quite another thing than subsidising. We have subsidised biomass. That is also temporary, but it costs more than 10 billion potential. Now, for the 10 billion, I could have done something else if we had decided this ten or fifteen years ago. Subsidies are therefore never the solution to a sustainable concept, in any area. But facilitating is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u148	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u149	Can't I finish my speech, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u150	I thought you were done already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u151	No. I'm just being interrupted. I like that very much and also nice, but I had one or two more questions. I've been so upset that I don't even remember this. But I'm almost done. Across the street, the Minister has said the following. If there is no alternative method of exploitation, then there is no regulation of ownership, but in a sense of expropriation. The answer to the second-term questions in this house shows that if there are no alternative forms of exploitation at the end of the transitional period, there is still no expropriation. This is only true if the law makes the property completely worthless. Is this a tightening-up of the Minister's previous position? Can the Minister indicate what the value is when there are no more exploitation possibilities? So what's the value? I thought it was a bit of a strange answer to a question I asked. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group looks forward with interest to the answers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u152	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Two minutes out of your speaking time, but you have been allowed to do so. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Sometimes you get these handy calculation tools, which lead to amazing insights. For example, the joint provincial accounting chambers in their Energy report in transition mapped out the state of the energy transition. The petajoules are gonna blow your brains out. And for those who don't know, 1 petajoul equals 278 million kilowatt-hours of electricity. Now, this data showed that for the electricity supply alone of the province of Utrecht, for example, 3,000 windmills should be installed, and if we wanted to generate the same amount of energy with solar panels alone, 40,000 hectares would have to be completed. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am also aware that we need an energy mix for our energy supply, but these figures give a good idea that wind and sun energy is an unrealistic scenario. Moreover, this simple example makes it clear that intervention in electricity generation, as the Act aims to ban coal in electricity production, has enormous consequences. After all, we have lost a quarter of the electricity supply in the Netherlands by shutting down the coal plants. How are we gonna catch that? With windmills? It has recently been announced that they emit very harmful substances. Or do we think we can deliver the energy through solar panels? No, I don't. Mr. Chairman. It remains very special that the Netherlands has laid down by law that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 49% compared to 1990, especially given that the Paris Climate Agreement provides for 40%. The Climate Act has put the Dutch State in an extremely vulnerable position. Apart from the fact that there was no proper financial coverage under that bill, we may face legal consequences that the Urgenda case will not fall into. In other words, legally, the Netherlands can get stuck. At present, this may seem unthinkable, but situations such as those currently occurring in the case of the nitrogen and PMAs problems, where whole sectors are shut down, are not unthinkable. It seems as if we cannot deal with the economic prosperity, because no one would adopt this kind of draconian measures if the Netherlands were currently in severe economic conditions. How can we prevent the government from being put in check by legislation? And why are we not making good use of the European Emissions Trading System? If we provide a high CO price at the front, companies will find out what the best solution is. But now we are going to regulate things through all sorts of measures at the back, while that emissions trading system is meant to give the right stimulus at the front. Instead, we are causing problems, where the SGP group is deeply concerned about security of supply in particular. The urge and compulsion to move as far as possible to electrical energy supply has far-reaching consequences. Just take the huge extra electricity needed if we were to bend the fleet from fossil to electric. Moreover, the Netherlands is not an island. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like the government to at least take the surrounding countries into account in decision-making and in legislation on cross-border or even global problems. It is fair to say that this is happening, but it is happening in a way that the SGP Group has serious doubts about, particularly with regard to the reduction of emissions envisaged by this bill. I am now quoting from the Minister's answers. It states: "The 2030 electricity sector has been estimated at 20.2 Mton national. The bill ban on coal in electricity production contributes to this for 18 Mton in 2030 (Frontier Economics, 2018). This is a significant contribution to the overall reduction to be achieved in this sector. The net European reduction achieved by this bill is 8 Mton. This means that some of the savings are leaking to other countries." Mr. Chairman. That leaking to other countries intrigued me. What do you mean, leak out? The answer comes from the Council of State and reads as follows: "Because part of electricity generation in the Netherlands will be taken over by production in our neighbouring countries as a result of the ban, it is expected that this bill will lead to around 8 Mton CO reductions at European level by 2030." This explanatory statement by the Council of State makes it clear that this law nullifies 10th part, i.e. more than half, of the measure. In addition, there is a shift in emissions abroad. In short, in the Netherlands, through the large-scale use of biomass in former coal plants, we want to promote sustainability, but is it true that we then solve our own sustainability problem, but in the meantime export sustainability problems to other countries? Think of Germany, with a larger production of grey electricity, and think of America and other countries, with forest cutting. Is that justified? Can we saddle our neighbours or other continents with our problem, which we have generated ourselves? In the context of leaking out, I have a very simple final question: why don't we just halve the production of existing coal plants? Then we achieve exactly the same thing, we have the production in our own hands, we also have the ability to intervene when the security of supply comes under pressure, we can respond to seasons, we avoid massive capital destruction, and we avoid having to switch to biomass other than wastewood and pruning wood. In short, why not look at a less radical alternative to avoid shifting sustainability problems to other countries and keeping our own hands on the buttons? Mr. Chairman. Today I have heard some interesting observations from other parties, who are actually asking to make a pass on the spot. I am very interested in the Minister's response, including in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u154	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to answer? Five minutes? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u155	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u156	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all your input. It is a pleasure for me and my colleagues to be here, because it is always substantive and always constructive. Of course, I always try to see some convergence in it. I have an interest in that. I have heard Forum say that the signature under Paris is taken seriously; I have heard the PVV refer to the IPCC reports. By the way, I have heard the CDA and the VVD both high-pitched about the environment. That was my portion of convergence for today. Mr. Chairman. Why this bill? There is one central, simple reason: there is no one who has seriously counted on the implementation of the Paris Agreement who believes that coal can be used in the mix. Period. It's not good with coal, is it? All countries deal with this in a slightly different way. The phasering is different. Yes, coal power stations are still being built. But as a responsible country, we have to learn from the knowledge that coal is not working. The phasing out of coal is therefore an important contribution to our climate agreement. We are trying to phase it in such a way that CO is actually reduced at European level and not only within national borders, and that road leakage is reduced. We're dealing with security of supply. We've also been paying attention to 2020. Mr Schalk asks if it could have been a little less. Couldn't we have walked at half power? I'll come back to that later. In his direction: coal doesn't work. That has been a leading motive in this. The compensation for this is a transitional period. This gives the power stations the opportunity to look for other fuels and to partly recoup their investments. This provides compensation in kind. Of course, this leads to questions about legal risks. What's the risk of claims? I can't predict that. And if I could, I wouldn't, by the way. The central idea is that this is not expropriation. A power plant still has value in 2030, in any capacity, for example by burning other fuels. Ultimate and even if that wasn't possible right away, we can do it later. Always a power station holds a value in terms of storage, ground and equipment. Legally, this is not expropriation. That means that this is not a closure law and that is not his name either. There are operators who have said via the media that they will go to court. It's not up to me to get in their way somehow. The court is open to everyone in the Netherlands. Questions were asked about the different ideas that existed during the construction of the power stations. I'll get back to you on that. Here's what I want to do. I'm going to go into the bill very briefly. I want to say something about security of supply and something about timing. Biomass and the labour market are dealt with and then I want to work through the answers on a senator-by-senator basis. We mentioned 2020 and 2030. There's a rhythm of closure. Why not earlier, Mrs Gerkens and Mr Vendrik asked. That is because it does lead to significant road leakage effects. This is explicitly and finely modeled by Frontier. CE Delft has also been working on this and the PBL has looked at it. They've done that a little less fine-meshed. In the short term, gas plants are in the mothballs. Now closing does not result in a reduction. Besides, this is an expensive joke. This is also apparent from all kinds of investigations. I am not going to go into the figures now. I'll leave it to the different judges of those amounts. We would therefore have a demand for security of supply. Mr. Chairman. Security of supply requires separate attention. We've been asked about that several times. Mr Van Kesteren, Mrs Huizinga, Mr Pijlman and Mr Van Ballekom have asked how we are going to do that and whether security of supply is still secure. First of all, security of supply in the European electricity market is not something one country does. In the Pentalateral Energy Forum, we look with other countries at security of supply in Northwest Europe. "Pentalateral forum" suggests that they are five countries, but you have to count the Benelux as one country. I don't even know if we can count Belgium as one country. It is the Benelux, Germany, Austria, France and Switzerland. They will work together in it. They have a very close consultation on security of supply. The joint TSOs are also making analyses for this. Ours is called TenneT. Furthermore, we have a lot of bilateral agreements with Germany. They are not just about interconnection capacity. Coal phasing out is also a matter of attention between the two countries. We even have a memorandum of understanding. I signed that with Altmaier. The Netherlands is such a small country that we cannot guarantee security of supply on our own. The report of Frontier Economics from 2018 analysed the risks on top of that. It has noted that sufficient capacity is available in all years up to 2030. In doing so, you take into account domestic assets and imports. The Climate Agreement also made agreements on security of supply. In that we agreed that the security of supply is monitored very frequently by TenneT. We also come from the government in 2020 with a kind of framework that will enter into force as soon as it becomes clear that security of supply is not guaranteed. Let me say here that generation capacity is not the only route to security of supply. If we said that to each other, we would probably increase the cost of the electricity system too much. It is not just about adjustable power. Someone asked why the power should be adjustable. The story is always about the Elfstedendag: it is cold, a lot of electricity is needed, but it doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine either. Then you have a problem. Eleven Cities Day is a bit of a metaphor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u157	Eleven Cities Day is never a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u158	Eleven Cities Day is never a problem? If television fails on Eleven Cities Day, we have a big problem. There may be problems. First of all, we have to think about the demand side. We need to be able to steer on the question. We will also have to go to energy storage. Adjustable ability is also important to be able to react at times when the aforementioned means are not working and yet we need power. It's necessary. Interconnection also helps, because those are the neighbors' buffers. It has also been shown that there is not such a great deal of connection between the question of whether the sun is shining here and whether it is in Germany. Same with wind. So we can also enter and execute each other. As we expand the network, the "buyer plate," as electricians call it, security of supply is more secure. Bon. Does this mean we're sure we can do it? No, but we do know for sure that there is a system that we look into often enough to guarantee that it will be sure of delivery. Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Huizinga ask whether it is really necessary that the coal plants that we are phasing out now should return to a different form, for example as a biomass plant. Do we need them? Well, I can't say we need them all. Looks like we don't all need them, but that's a little bit of market. We monitor the year after year and we intervene as soon as necessary. The security of supply is really paramount. If we're going to sacrifice it, then the Netherlands is standing... my prophecy is soon turned upside down. Then we've lost our support quickly. I'm still busy keeping that support level high enough, and that shouldn't be wasted. Let's get back to the question of whether we can do it sooner. Everything can always be done sooner, but it's not just the security of supply I'm responsible for. I'm also responsible for the support for that transition. Maybe you don't always read it in the newspaper, but everything shows that Dutch people are very inclined to develop support for something when they see the need, when they also see that it works and when they see that it is an efficient solution. If you are going to confront Dutch people with solutions that, for example, work within national borders but not outside, or which are hugely expensive when it could have been cheaper, then it has happened quickly with the support. So we have everything we do to do with that support. That is why we should not opt for solutions whereby, in the short term, we see that emissions in the Netherlands are reduced, but that the same emissions are added again abroad. That would be the case in the short term. We must continue to phase in such a way that we can simply make it plausible to Dutch people that there are no excessive costs and that we do not do anything that really does not make any sense at European level. Mr Vendrik asks: hasn't there changed anything; can the road leak not be reduced by changing prices and perhaps the merit order is such that the gas plants are ahead of schedule? That's how I understand him. I can see him nodding. Well, that can be true at occasional times. It is possible that gas power plants are ahead of schedule. This is also mentioned in the Carbon Tracker report to which Mr Vendrik refers. But it remains that we want to offer that compensation in kind, so for that fair balance. According to the experts, there will still be a significant leakage. It remains that the long-term security of supply is more secure than if we close everything down by 2020. And in general, you can just say that as two neighbouring countries, both of which have coal power stations, increase more equally, there are fewer accidents. That also means that we have talked a lot with our eastern neighbours about this manoeuvre. Mr Crone says: Dutch coal power stations have a high efficiency. So if you still have to keep coal power plants running, wouldn't it have been better to shut down an inefficient German power station, which will keep going in the Netherlands and make a deal on both jobs and emissions? This is a completely rational, logical idea. But we can also imagine even more: I confirm that this debate is considerably less easy in Germany. If we ourselves have to make every effort to come up with sensible measures and build up support for them with Dutch people, then you can imagine that this is the same in Germany. There one is not significantly more progressive than in the Netherlands, so there is also something that needs to be built up carefully, step by step. In my many discussions with my esteemed colleague, Mr Altmaier, I have not tasted that there would now be support for such a variant. Let me put it this way: they have moved on with the coal programme than I thought a year ago. I congratulate them on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u159	Mr President, first of all through you I apologize for interrupting the Minister when he spoke about the Eleven Cities Day, because that is, of course, the dream that we are all looking forward to. So that's a top day; that's not a drama day. Then we'll just take care of it in this country. But excuse me for doing it outside the chairman's office. Then there is the serious question of Germany. I also happen to know that Herr Altmaier, who speaks excellent Dutch by the way, is very passionate. That also applies to Mrs Merkel, by the way. Both have been personally inspired, for decades, to solve the climate problems. So that's what it starts with. You are. Two, we're gonna need Burden Sharing. Those are the climate words. There is a need for cost-sharing, CO allocation, and so on. And there's an employment thing. But yes, I think they are creative enough in Germany to dare to say that to each other. Otherwise, they are not achieving their goals either. This could help them a little bit. So we can at least try. It may take a week, a few months, but that should be worth it. If only because I am trying here that everyone who thinks that the international dimension of that decision is a tragedy, because we now have to close those modern power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u160	What I particularly like about Mr Crone's speech is that he follows the recipe that I also try to follow so fervently, namely that you always start with the content and the good idea and that you only then wonder if there is support. But the journey has to be complete. We're honoring the idea. I believe that intellectually speaking Mr Altmaier, who indeed speaks Dutch correctly, will probably do the same, but the step towards acceptance is more complicated. At some point, they're both playing. He too will want to choose things that do not upset people in that country. And I appreciate that, too. For example, we are all dealing with an optimum that we are trying to get as close as possible to what is feasible, but we know that the overlap is not always 100%. That's a nice way to put it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u161	But then a second attempt. I understand that that is one-on-one difficult; power stations of ours against power stations of theirs. But a problem is usually solved by making it bigger. There are so many interests to share between the Netherlands and Germany, in terms of climate in general and beyond. But that is also the case with the European Commission. I cannot, of course, quote what Mr Timmersmans said last night, but the Commission can play a role by saying: look, you can solve things together, cross-border. Maybe we should do that with the nitrogen. According to the newspaper, farmers in Belgium have it easier than farmers in the Netherlands. We need to organise each other's support, and I share that with the Minister, but my experience is also next. Whether it's in a union hall after a violent situation or following an environmental issue; it's my experience that when you explain it to people, the vast majority say: yes, well, at least we get it. And the support is getting bigger here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u162	It could be. Then let me go over, because then we will come up with an even better idea in terms of content. Mr Crone will undoubtedly agree with me that this is an even better idea. That is why we are reforming the ETS. That is an even better idea, because then something that is even more sensible than this will happen at European level. And that is also what my commitment is very focused on. We'll exchange that we've spoken to Mr. Timmermans. Yeah, I do. I have told him that the Netherlands is a strong supporter of further tightening up and reform of the ETS system. That is by far the most efficient solution for everyone. That is the way to do it, without too much pain, suffering, political decisions and so on. That is what economists, I think, have been advocating for decades in all kinds of environmental issues. The internalisation of external effects is the sacred tune on which there is agreement across the political spectrum. And that's funny, because there aren't many things left and right are totally in agreement. And there aren't many things all economists agree on either. But here we can look each other in the eye. It is an even better solution, and I am pursuing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u163	Mr Crone, I give you the floor for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u164	I remember when we came from Kyoto, we all hated it. Because each country had to solve its own problems, it had to have an almost autarctic energy supply. Some people remind me of ideas like that. I'm not one of them. I am from your point of view: indeed, to solve as much as possible internationally, but to help people who need it, for example developing countries. You shouldn't let them do that anymore when they already have a much lower emissions. But that also fits in: you create support and you create great treaties by showing on a small scale between two, three or four countries.............................................................................................................................................. So an example, pioneers in Europe, two speeds in Europe. My last attempt: do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u165	My assessment is that this is the second best idea after reforming the ETS. But it is not the proposal with which we build up support in Germany. That is what I want to protect them somewhat in. We sometimes do something slightly irrational, at a small moment, because it benefits the basis of support. That's what politics has been awarded. Politics is only meant to offer irrational solutions, otherwise we could replace the whole Chamber with a spreadsheet, and so would the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u166	The Minister says that acceptance is important and that we should not do anything that makes no sense at European level. However, there are two elements in this picture that do not make any sense. That is the fact that, with this law, we are allowing the most modern generation of coal power stations to close early, and that the conversion of coal plants to biomass plants in large numbers and even the growth of biomass in public opinion is also devastating. How does he view these two developments in the context of his remark that we should not do anything that makes no sense at European level and which we are losing acceptance of?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u167	That means we have to keep explaining what we're doing. That is why it has been chosen not to close all coal plants now, but to work with a transitional period. This reduces costs and ensures that we do not find solutions that are fully compensated elsewhere in terms of emissions. That's important. There are two sides to biomass, but I come now to talk about it. I'll take that question with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u168	I have a question about security of supply. If the Minister now talks about biomass, do I understand that this will complete the security of supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u169	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u170	Well, then I have a question about it. The Minister states that there must be support and that the people must understand what we are doing. When I read the pieces as a simple senator, we are achieving something where we say: we are going to put a stop to the coals. The leaking sounds very nice, as if something is flowing away, but when the ordinary citizen hears that we are doing so, while people abroad have to burn harder to supply us with electricity..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u171	Many questions lie next to the main topics. This is such a matter. Can I take it with me when I walk past the different senators and their input? I wrote along and I hope I didn't miss anything. Otherwise, I am sure that I am rightly reminded of that. Biomass. The bill does not contain biomass. Then why should we talk about it? At the same time, it is a logical subject. Biomass after 2030 is a possibility. The remaining biomass outside the biomass that would go into these plants would not be mentioned. I will try to focus on the questions on biomass. I have to say that there are concerns about that, but those are precisely the concerns that we need to have and which we need to be vigilant about. We are all doing this in order to prevent CO emissions in the end. So we should always be sharp, even if any new information comes up, on the question: is it now? Are you sure this is true? Does it make sense what we're doing? I am not going to go back to it, because that does not apply to this large-scale biomass, but I have to mention that air quality is also a serious issue. Not so long ago we had the situation that inhabitants of cities died perhaps a year and a half earlier due to dirty air. The victims of nuclear energy in the history of mankind cannot compete with that. There are intersections in Amsterdam where people have lost more years of life. So fine dust is also a very serious point. Maybe some members live in decent neighborhoods where the all-burner haunts, but they also know that this isn't always a party at night. So these are very serious questions. If we want to be sustainable, we must always have the courage to ask ourselves this question. We have to be critical all the time. The room is that. I am, too, but behind the scenes, and that's appropriate. The concept of biomass is not difficult to understand. Mr Crone and Mr Pijlman have said something about it. It's very real. If the cycle time is short enough and if there is ever new planting, you can call it a circular and therefore emission-free stream. If we have 80-year-old trees, whether or not they're primordial forests, I don't know how old they are in coal-fired power stations, that's fake. Everyone can see that, because in 80 years the c's will be out of the sky again, but everyone can see that this is not a real timeline until 2050. The question of whether it's fake or not is a good question. At the same time, biomass is an irrevocable part of the sustainable mix. Many MPs regularly cite the IPCC as something that has value because scientists proclaim it. This too, however, is something that scientists proclaim. It is not appropriate to display in detail the calamity that would come upon us here, under the mention of the IPCC, and to reject the solutions that the IPCC is irreversibly suggesting, namely in terms of some biomass. We can't be selective believers. It doesn't work. We then have the fate of biomass that affects not only biomass. Sun on rooftops we still find cozy, unless they are monuments, or in old city centers visible, because then we don't like it either. So we still like sunshine on rooftops. We also like little windmills, preferably those cute ones that are made of wood. Geothermics, provided it's somewhere else, we also like and wind at sea. The first riot in that context turned out to be not so bad. In Noordwijk the tourists didn't turn out to run away. Moreover, the other ones are no longer visible at all. So that's what we can have. But we don't like biomass and we don't like serious wind on land with serious mills. We don't find anything on land, and we don't like nuclear energy either. Biomass fits into that list. That means looking for a responsible way to apply it anyway, because a country like ours can't rely on just sun, wind and geothermal energy. We weren't given that, except for pieces. Then it is useful to point out biomass, and so have several Members. Biomass is an umbrella term, by the way. Several speakers have referred to this. Of the entire subsidy flow, about a quarter goes to the pallet-like biomass, but a question can also be asked about that, because it is still a quarter. But it's not everything, it's not biomass in general. There are two main concerns about this woody biomass. The first is whether it's really sustainable. We read in the newspaper of people who live in America and see trucks with whole trees driving by and think: nice stuff with these pallets, but I see very big, thick trees driving by. The second question is whether the Netherlands does not eat more than what we would find a reasonable level of fair share for a country like this. That's two main concerns about this. We have not accepted the international standards for biomass. What we have done has been said that we use wood pallets in the Netherlands that are made from the inevitable residual flows of regular wood production. Many decades ago, all kinds of plantations, areas, wood production started. Americans build their houses of wood more often than we do. They make furniture. Paper's on its way back, but they did, and there are production forests. In the countries from which we extract biomass, the forest area is not reduced, but in some of these countries the area of production is increasing. Forests have been planted for production, and have been planted for the past 20 years. There's more forest than there is at the beginning. So these are inevitable waste streams, things that you cannot use for the production of wood. Among other things, it's about thinning wood from the trees that stand between them and hindering the rest in growth, so you have to get rid of it. You used to just chop them down and let them rot. CO2 was also released, although slower, but CO2 was released just as well. Furthermore, it's about cutting wood that makes you felt for furniture or housing. Thirdly, it concerns the remnants of the sawing, the remains of the timber products. These consist not only of sawdust, but also of the scraps, the bark and I know what. That's the point. We have arranged it in such a way that we can be as sure as possible that we use that wood. Is it then true that you are helping wood production in the legs, as Mrs Teunissen says, by means of a detour? I think she means that you're giving value to a part that used to have no value now, the so-called neglect. Mrs Teunissen is well aware of this, because in the livestock sector we also see deterioration to the utmost. This makes production, in this case of production wood, more attractive. But yes, houses in America have been built for decades, no, much longer, of wood. Those areas were already there before the rise of biomass. This is simply a legitimate production forest that has become larger than smaller. We demand that the forest manager from where we get it should at least maintain the carbon stock. We have a very sustainability framework for that. For example, from 2020 onwards, our sustainability criteria have been referred to as a wish in the debate, but it becomes a reality by 2020 that you should be able to indicate the origin of your pellet. What area in which forest is it from? A whole system has been set up so that we can always trace where it comes from and whether it's not pure fake. That system looks a bit like that in the food chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u172	Do I understand the Minister's statement that the amount of forests is not decreasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u173	The production forests that this comes out of, at least in the United States, have become larger rather than smaller in recent years. The countries from which we extract this do not show a total decline in forest areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u174	However, we can also read that we are expected to have a shortage of biomass. That's not consistent with that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u175	That's possible, but that doesn't mean anything about the forest area. You could be short while you're doubling the forest area. This means that demand is growing faster than supply. There is no reduction in the size of those production forests. One requirement that we also demand is that the total carbon stock is at least maintained. But it is also true that, between now and 2030, we must be careful not to use so much biomass as the world as a whole, so that there is a shortage. Biomass should not be a cheap airport either. Biomass is now used in the transition for all kinds of different things, but too easy an escape is not convenient, because at some point the amount of produceable biomass is limited. We have to take that into account. I will come back to that later, because it is not unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u176	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister says that it is not unlimited, because from this I can conclude that demand is increasing at the time when we are going to use more biomass. That means that the forest is actually decreasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u177	No, because you use forests where you grow at least as much carbon as you take out. A forest as a whole must be at least carbon-neutral, but if you need more forest, you can build more acreage. For all of them, it must not lead to a reduction in the amount of forest. But then I still recognize that the Planbureau for the Environment says that at some point we really need to worry about the balance between supply and demand. The Netherlands has a great responsibility in this, because we too, as a small but rich country, must take responsibility by not slobbering up all sustainable biomass for their own use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u178	I have a question about what the Minister calls residual streams, residual wood. He says: from the production forests we get all kinds of residues, such as twigs and twigs from the dunning of the trees. But this contradicts what two of the largest producers of wood pellets in the world say in their annual papers, as the Volkskrant showed last week. Enviva and Granuul say in their annuals that they process trees in the pellets. The same piece in the Volkskrant also shows that it is very difficult to trace exactly what is left over, because the wood often comes from private forests. An owner can say: these straight trees you see here are not residual wood, so I'm going to make sawwood out of that, but the rest of the trees are residual wood and I'm going to sell them. Because we as the Netherlands grant, it becomes extra attractive to identify more and more trees in a forest as being residual wood. Will the Minister respond to what we read in that article in the Volkskrant? And does he want to clarify how he arrives at a good qualification and definition of residual wood?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u179	That's what standards are for. I am not saying that everyone in the world uses biomass in a sensible way. That's not what I'm saying, because I don't vouch for that. I think it can happen in all kinds of ways that somewhere in the world, for whatever reason, whole trees, not specially grown for them, disappear into an oven. I don't vouch for that. So we should not say that biomass is a dossier that we are not worried about. But the Netherlands wanted to be strict and it has also carried that out. That's why we've been working on using those residual streams. During dunning there is a non-grown intermediate tree. Pruning wood is certainly not good to use. And the residual streams from the sawmill aren't easy to use either. Why am I confident that the wood that is really suitable for that is being used? This is because there is still a considerable difference between the price of wood used for one application and wood used for the other in US states, where the source is located. If you have a production forest, you are crazy if you barely get half of it for your wood because you value it to pellets, while it would be suitable for furniture wood. Those price differences really do exist. I checked again this morning. Here and there it is published per state. When you look at those prices, you see there's an important difference. If that's not the case anymore, we need to be alert. Again, I'm not saying we're without concern. I say that we must pursue a sensible policy, we must work hard for it and we must monitor it. This was actually the first question that Mrs Teunissen asked, and I would like to comment on that. A framework, however beautiful, makes no sense if we do not have one way or another a system to control it. We have that system. There is. What do we do about it? We have a whole system of hallmarks and certification to do that. There's a system of pre-checking. That goes with certificates. You must determine in advance whether such a certificate meets our criteria. That's what an independent committee does. Next year it will be a system in which we are even more stringent than we are now, because then you really need to be able to indicate the origin by area. There is also ex post control. Then there's verification. An independent verifier should work on this. It has to determine whether that wood really meets our requirements, not someone else's requirements, but our requirements. That producer should be able to demonstrate to that verifier where that wood comes from and how the forest was managed. That verifier welcomes..................................................................................................................................................................... A whole system has been put together to find out where that wood came from. These are systems that naturally resemble how we monitor the food chain and how we look at medicines. As a government, of course, we have ways in the public domain to check whether the standards we set are being complied with. That is what we are doing, and that is how we are gradually checking whether we are doing it wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u180	But this method does not exclude in any way that the Netherlands does not use trees for biomass, because the Netherlands does not set that standard. I can only hear the Minister say: it is the commitment of the Netherlands. But there is no guarantee that trees will not be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u181	In fact, if they are dunning trees, if they are trees that hinder the growth of the rest and stand between them, they will be removed anyway. In a production forest they hinder the growth of the rest. It's called a tree. It's not a full-grown tree and it's not a tree you make production wood from, but you see that tree as a residual stream and you process it in pellets. You don't do that to the other one. Firstly, we have standards for this. We have agreed on all kinds of percentages, we have all kinds of origin measures and we are monitoring them. Furthermore, market prices at the moment are still prohibitive to shred good production wood in pellets for coal plants. If you do, you're a bad entrepreneur. So in all these ways we guarantee that we are pursuing a sustainable biomass policy. Is that policy finished? Don't make me laugh; the policy is never finished. I mean that we must be constantly vigilant about this. We are once again responding to all the signals that something could not be right and to all the things that raise questions, because the policy is never finished. There'll always be smart people who come up with something you'd rather not have made up and then we'll take action again. For example, the government is of course constantly fighting to keep our food, our biomass, our fuel, our medicines etc. et cetera et cetera et cetera to the standards we have set. We all see at all times that things sometimes go wrong in the environmental domain, and then we have to rush to make it right. Yeah, that's what's gonna happen. But the policy here is not only sustainable. There are also explicit systems and mechanisms to enforce that we do so and not in any other way. That policy, I dare say, is never complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u182	Mrs Teunissen, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u183	I have one final comment to make. My point is precisely that the Minister is now dealing with these smart people in a good way, because it is now becoming very lucrative because of these subsidies to designate more wood as dunning wood and yet to ensure that trees can be designated as residual wood. So as long as the Netherlands does not stop this subsidy, it remains lucrative to use trees, or then it becomes lucrative. The Minister is, of course, right when he says: that market value is seriously disappointing. But it is precisely with the subsidies that we are giving that it will be lucrative to cut more and more trees for that. And all those signals... I'm asking the Minister if he's taking the signals seriously. There are dozens of environmental organisations in the US and Estonia that are calling the shots and saying: the Netherlands, please stop subsidies, because it is going wrong; we are losing our forests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u184	I call the Minister and then Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u185	On the question of whether we take it seriously, I would also like to say yes explicitly, also because of its support. The only way to gain and maintain support for a transition that biomass must inevitably be part of is to explain to everyone that we are not dealing with nonsense. That's why we have to take every signal seriously. And at the same time, I say no. If that subsidy had created a situation in which it was attractive to re-appoint a tree from production wood to dunning wood, you would expect a higher market price for pellet wood than for production wood. In the distance, that price of pellet wood is not higher. But if those prices get close, we're gonna have to scratch our heads. If there's gonna be supply-demand frictions, we're gonna have to scratch our heads. If there are any people who can prove to us that the chain is being rigged, we have to go. It's just serious. The only way to get support is if we recognize the following. Yes, we need biomass because the PBL can expect it to be billions more expensive if we exclude it. As we exclude more energy sources, it becomes billions more expensive. And I have good experience with what Dutch people think of that. At the same time, we must recognise that if we cannot explain that what we call sustainable is also sustainable, then that support will go completely wrong. Those are the two things I'm standing for. And that's never finished. I can always be relied upon, and I take every signal seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u186	That's good to hear. And yet I have the feeling of déjà vu, because these are about the same words as the words I heard from Minister Brinkhorst when I expressed my concerns about the coal power stations. If we are going into an energy transition, then it is also important to see what we are replacing traditional energy with. And what's the CO emissions? If it turns out that the biomass we use is actually more polluting than the coal we originally used, then I think we have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u187	That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u188	I find the example of wood quite difficult, because I think you should also look at all the other biomass used. What does energy yield throughout the lifetime of such a product? Look at the effects on food when we start producing rape for biomass. It's a lot more than just this wood. Let me put my question as follows. We know that in the Netherlands about 200 petajoules of biomass can be produced sustainably. We're using about 120 of them right now. If those five coal plants are going to go to biomass, how much petajoule are we gonna be on? Because if we get around 200 petajoules, by definition, we end up in dirty biomass, because that means you have to absorb that peak. So I'd like to hear from the minister we're gonna end up in when those five coal plants run on biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u189	I think that before we get there, we need to go back to the agreements made under the Climate Agreement. In that agreement we did not make this a field that is problem-free and in which it goes without saying. It really isn't. Nor have we named it something where we already know what will or should happen in 2030. We can't. What we did do was make clear agreements. So we said that there would be a sustainability framework first. In the margins of that sustainability framework, cascading is also addressed. What is a good use for biomass in the short, medium and long term? We all feel that it could be different in the short and long term. That's the first date. The second agreement is that the Planning Office for the Environment, as I said, provides an annual insight into where that demand and supply is going. That also gives us the opportunity to adjust. It should not be the case that I now pretend to know exactly what will happen in 2030, but it should not be the case that we do not take any action between now and 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u190	Mr President, may I interrupt the Minister? I asked a very different question. In the Climate Agreement we are talking about 300 or 400 petajoules, and that is a lot more worrying. My question to the Minister was how much petajoule we are about to generate in the biomass plants that are now coal plants. Are we over 200 petajoules? Are we still under there? If the Minister cannot answer that question in this period, I would like to hear the answer in the second period, because I think that is important for this discussion. Because if it is more than 200 petajoule, by definition there is a perverse incentive to really add wood. So we need to stay far below it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u191	I don't have the numerical answer, because I don't know if this "what if" is going to happen. I have agreed on a process, namely that we are going to see every year what could happen. That's what the Plan Bureau for the Environment is gonna do. This gives us an insight every year into the projections and the possibilities. And it shows us when supply and demand are falling apart. That's the answer we're gonna see every year. That also means that I should not play for PBL now, and should not try to come up with free-styling answers that will soon be drawn up by experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u192	The last thing I'd want is for the minister to go free-styling here. Although, maybe that's kind of funny. That is why I am giving him the opportunity to come back to this in the second term. It seems strange to me that he would not be able to answer the question of how much he expects these five coal plants to be able to generate energy if they have switched entirely or partly to biomass. So let me ask him one more time: will you please come back to that in second term? I'd like to hear the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u193	There is no question that I would expect an x-number of coal plants to do anything. I abstract from that expectation. It is best to calculate how much petajoule it is when the maximum capacity of coal plants is delivered. That's just a technical answer. But I'm not going to commit to an expectation, because I choose not to expect anything. I just choose to live up to the agreements in the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u194	I understand that these coal plants will be open for some time after 2020. I understand that from the Minister's introductory remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u195	Yeah, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u196	Then the demand for the effectiveness of the existing framework for woody biomass as a side and most, and the growth it provides, is a major issue. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan vermoeden dat de minister daar zelf ook diep in geïnteresseerd is.]] We all are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u197	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u198	Are the intentions in that system of quality, certification and so on actually being realized? The best way to do that is for the Minister to tell us very clearly here that this kind of noise from abroad is being investigated immediately. I therefore refer to noises from abroad that generate subsidies for additional and mostly very different effects than those envisaged by the sustainability framework. Are these sounds immediately investigated and de-stressed, and do we hear it from this minister? What can the Minister offer us here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u199	But wait a minute. Now the question is what would I do if there were signals coming in the future? I have always said that if there are serious signals, I will go into them seriously again, because I think that is important for the support base. The same applies, for example, to air quality in another area. We must be open to signals. The only commitment I can make is that if there are serious reservations or things that we cannot reconcile with the practice we have intended, or with the certification, or with all those systems that we already have and which are becoming increasingly advanced, or within the framework itself, I will take action on them. I am sure that this Parliament will appeal to me too, because Parliament is a party that will always take note of these signals and will certainly appeal to me. But it would be nice if we also recognised more widely in Parliament that the costs would be enormous if we were to abandon biomass altogether and at the same time ensure that it remains sustainable. It's en-and. Just complaining about long lists of generation methods that are unpopular without keeping the real story, doesn't help us through the transition in an affordable way. So my call is also a little bit to live here on the facts we have. That means, on my side, if there are any facts coming in that I cannot reconcile with our framework, I will go on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u200	Well, let's just underline that. My point was not about all biomass, because we will talk about it later, when the sustainability framework is in place, and so on. That's next year. But I was talking about the continuing signals, true or not, that the current use of woody biomass for added and most of all may not always meet the conditions set by this Minister. Then it is very nice to hear that there is a very active minister with his executive apparatus, who immediately goes after every signal on the subject and immediately informs us what is right or wrong here. That's how I listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u201	That's a good interpretation. I fully support the demands we make, because I cannot have the fake biomass or fake-sustainable. That also means that I have to do everything I can to take these signals seriously. That is my position. But very sincere: if this derails, it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u202	Mrs Gerkens' question about production and the sustainability of biomass is very important. The explanatory statement makes it very clear that biomass is actually the only real alternative: technically feasible and it can be economical. But when I hear the minister like that, it's like he's saying, "We watch that year after year." And then we'll be back here in this house in a few years' time with the same law, but with a ban on the addition of biomass. Then the uncertainty will be stirred up, won't it? In the long term, biomass is not so real that you can say now: you should do that? While we're gonna re-direct and maybe ban it again. We can't offer producers that either, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u203	We made very clear agreements in the Climate Agreement, and that was where the electricity sector was at, that we are moving the path of increasingly looking at the sustainability framework. That's what we agreed. We agreed to look at the balance between supply and demand. That's not a new thing I'm shaking out of my sleeve right now, it's just on paper. I have here the text of the Climate Agreement: page 109, for everyone to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u204	In the first term, I have already asked how pleased the Minister would be if four large plants, which remain after 2020, would all switch to biomass. How pleased will the Minister be, in the context of emissions after 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u205	It's three, not four. Look, there again: I can try to outline all kinds of what-if situations and indicate how happy I am, but it has to be in a sensible way. We have made very clear agreements on how to find a sensible solution. This includes sustainability criteria, which include the demand-supply balance sheet and include annual opinions from the PBL. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u206	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u207	In fact, we have come to the solution of Mr Van Kesteren by way of a detour. Because he said: yes, do we have to decide to do all those biomass plants, or can we think about that again? Well, we're not deciding anything right now. We decide nothing anyway, the operators decide nothing today, it's exactly that agreement we made in the Climate Agreement to look at annually and develop a sustainability framework. I think this is an agreement that is in line with his call to do this thoughtfully. By the way, I would like to say that in the meantime we do not see a large flow of grant applications for electricity produced on wood pellets. Pure electricity generation based on pellets has not been applied for in the previous and current SDE rounds. The other forms of biomass that also have more to do with air quality than with pure sustainability can be better discussed when we have developed a sustainability framework. This will focus mainly on those other forms of biomass. Before I go to the questions of the individual Members here, I still have the question of employment. Mrs Gerkens has asked extensively, Mr Crone has just mentioned it. Look, the argument that is never an answer to the question, but always relevant to start with, is that this transition is not primarily an attack on employment in the middle segment, but a blessing. That is not true for everyone, I know that, but we have seen economic reports for many years in which we saw that globalisation affected employment in the middle. Not at the bottom, because they were often local-for-local courses, not even the higher educated, but the middle. We have done everything we can for years, and we have all regretted that. But there's a huge opportunity now. We are jumping over people with secondary education, who are desperately needed on all those different parts of the transition. In fact, they're so badly needed that we're short. That is a problem, but I keep saying that it is a luxury problem compared to the situation that there would be no work there. As a result of the Hemweg, the employment effects have been examined. Researchers' expectations are that you could have cumulatively with all five power plants, an entire coal chain, from 2020 to 2030 a number of people who could not find work for a long time from between 40 and 150. The unions have been watching this. It was then said that there should be a work-to-work provision for employment effects of the energy transition, for which a certain reservation has also been made. On top of that, the Westhavenarrangement was created partly by the contributions of the Minister of SZW. That is a unit of UWV and FNV that is going to work on the design of a service package for those people. All kinds of parties are involved. But the letters from the Minister of SZW have been clear. I shall now turn to the questions that have been asked by the various Members and which I have not yet answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u208	Let's talk about the employment effects. You repeat what you also said in the House of Representatives: good, good. What does that mean for the people who become unemployed because of the closure of the Hemwegcentrale? That's very soon. Can you say anything specific about the impact of this policy on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u209	That is something the employer must do at first. An arrangement has been concluded because of the previous closure. On this basis, it is now up to the employer to come up with a package with the individual employees. But I don't want to go into that, because then I'm here negotiating something that I'm not talking about at all, and that makes me very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u210	But it has also been agreed that people would be accompanied concretely from work to work. Those facilities were designed for this purpose. Can you tell me if that has had an effect? If you can't do that now, will you do it later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u211	I'll do the latter. I'll just start in order with Mr. Van der Linden. Between the lines, I thought I heard that Mr Van der Linden was only slightly enthusiastic about the legislative proposal. I did find out that he's excited about something I'm excited about. Yeah, I also think the IPCC didn't go crazy because it also mixed nuclear power. Yeah, I know thorium isn't ready yet, but we should be focusing on that. Do I agree that this coup reduces the risk of nuclear power? No, I do not think so, because we are talking about an emission-free source in nuclear energy, and here we are talking about the most emission-rich source. Questions have been asked about biomass and legal risks, but I have answered them. In my speech on biomass, I tried to answer all of Mrs Teunissen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u212	I have one more question for the Minister on nuclear energy. He talks about the source of energy and emissions, but my question was more about how to act. In the past, Minister Brinkhorst was a supporter of coal and now the producers and owners are confronted with this legislation. Doesn't that way of acting by the Dutch government in your opinion increase the chance that someone will come and say: I am going for that nuclear power plant there, because the Dutch government is behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u213	That's always hard to estimate, but I don't think it's too bad. That's how I understood the question. Look, we've been talking about an investment in coal that you could see would reduce the support base, while at nuclear power you've seen for some years now that the support base is increasing. Let's put it this way. Mrs Faber asked about the size of the reservation for possible legal proceedings. That is not explicitly special in the budget, but it is part of Article 40, which includes human expenditure. She also asked whether it is not true that we have free movement in Europe, which means that we could also import coal flow and which also means that we can import gas, so that Dutch people do not have to get rid of gas. Just briefly, the Netherlands is still an importer at the very beginning, but we are becoming a correspondingly more exporter of electricity. It is therefore not the case that, with the closure in 2030, we will become a country that parasitizes its neighbours. On the gas market, I want to be very clear, but concise. "From the gas" means two different things, both of which have nothing to do with the importability or exportability of gas. The Groningenveld stops in 2022; the Groningenveld goes off the gas. But that doesn't mean that the Netherlands is going off the gas. As long as we still need gas, it remains important to extract gas. There is therefore no question of stopping mining in the Netherlands. It's just that the Groningenveld is stopping. Secondly, yes, by 2050 households must be energy neutral, but that does not mean that we need to get rid of gas now. And yes, it means that we may have to import in the meantime. The tilt point is about now. That is why it is important that we continue to use our small fields.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u214	But suppose there is a gas supplier who wants to continue supplying Dutch households. You have free movement of goods, so why can't you just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u215	Yeah, that's right. But the connection obligation will expire. At some point gas networks have been written off and there is no gas network in a certain area. Without a gas grid, it's hard to deliver. By that time, there must be attractive heat solutions, so that everyone is as warm as they used to be, hopefully in an even more comfortable house, and we don't have to worry about the costs either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u216	Now it is true that the connection obligation for newly built houses has been abolished, but will this also apply to existing houses? Because that's what you're insinuating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u217	For existing homes there is no connection obligation, because they are already connected. But the situation may be that a gas network has been written off. A new form of gas may also be available: green gas or hydrogen. There are all kinds of possibilities for using gas networks for future energy supply and for providing people with warmth in a way that is familiar to them. But there may also be a heat grid solution. The fact is that people need to be able to keep their homes warm in a way they can understand. In the future this will be less and less often with natural gas, but other gases will replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u218	Then it gets interesting, because in fact the gas networks just stay in the ground. The infrastructure remains, even if it has been written off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u219	But, of course, we must ensure that the gas networks remain safe. Every once in a while, you're gonna have to redesign a gas grid. Once there's a water supply, you're not gonna revisit the gas grid. But those are all local decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u220	I just heard the Minister say, "Other gases." What gases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u221	Green gas, hydrogen. These are also conceivable possibilities for housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u222	Okay. I have a second question. We have talked a lot about biomass and what consequences that has for the trees. You know my point of view; that is what I said this morning. But how does the Minister view the financial feasibility of biomass? Because it also costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u223	We have done something different in the Netherlands than other countries. We asked our independent referee, the Planning Office for the Environment, what is the most cost-effective solution for the Netherlands. That shows two things. Firstly, it is a broad mix of energy supplies, leading to the most cost-effective solution. This is also a solution with limited costs. There have been election programmes in which transition costs have risen to well above 10 billion. We are in the region of 2 billion per year, and not until 2030. So the most cost-effective solution has been determined. There is a certain amount of biomass in this. There is also a certain amount of other forms of energy in it. That's how the Netherlands does it. In other countries there is not always such an independent referee and the policy may be more sensitive, but we have really tried to keep the costs as low as possible. We used all the estimates we had.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u224	Okay. Then I have another question for the Minister. Are there other countries in the EU or elsewhere where a law on the prohibition of coal in electricity production has been introduced or where plans are under way? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u225	Whether they do so legally in the same way is another question. But it is well known that our eastern neighbours are in the process of phasing out coal. That is a whole programme, which ends in 2038, or in 2032, to finally close a huge amount of coal-fired power stations................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Unfortunately, coal does not fit in with the Paris solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u226	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u227	Then I come to Mr Otten's contribution. He calls it GO, but GO actually says stop. There are two points made by Mr Otten which I must correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u228	Can I give Mrs Faber a chance first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u229	I had asked another question about the reservation for claims for external legal advice. The Minister does indicate that this is included in the staff costs, but there is an underlying calculation. How much is reserved for these claims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u230	There is no amount of money that you say is gone, we stop asking for legal assistance for matters that are important to the Empire. If that were the case, it would be a strange idea to disclose that amount, because then you'll actually tell your opponent when your budget is up. Let me put it this way: it's part of a bigger pot. The Empire assures itself of legal assistance at times when this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u231	I can therefore conclude that, at least, claims have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u232	It has always been taken into account that the Empire will have to provide itself with legal assistance where necessary at all times. We know that society in the direction of the Empire sometimes also makes a difference. There are two points made by Mr Otten, which I would like to make very quickly. No, it is not the case that next month there will be an increase in the energy bill of €60. No, it's not true that taxpayers pay 35 billion in TenneT's investments. Furthermore, I have not heard Mr Otten perfectly satisfied on a number of other issues, but he has not asked any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u233	Then how is the 35 billion financed? This will have to be done with some form of state guarantee. I have studied the Court of Auditors' report in detail. The risks have been warned. These risks have become much greater because of the German Energy Week, which means that the networks need even more investment than was expected at the time in the worst case. How is TenneT going to finance that 35 billion, i.e. €2,000 per Dutchman, as a 100% public company?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u234	To begin with, about a third is for the Netherlands and two thirds is on German territory. So it is not the case that the Dutch taxpayer should pay for something. It's being invested. An investment is not a consumer expenditure, but a return on investment. In the case of transport tariffs, of course, the user of energy also contributes to the network. The user pays. There's nothing weird about that. This means that a certain appropriate, although low, return on that investment is made, so that taxpayers do not have to pay for it. Both in Germany and in the Netherlands there is legislation to ensure this. The person who pays the transport charges is the user.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u235	Then what was the reason those nets were sold ten years ago? The Germans saw that it was a very difficult business in terms of investment and thought: if those Dutch people are so crazy to buy it and want to take care of those investments, then we will get rid of it quickly. You can also read this in the Court of Auditors' report. It's very dubious. TenneT's mission is to provide the Netherlands with good electricity and provide the networks. Two thirds of that amount goes to Germany; you just said it yourself. It has also been mentioned by the Court of Auditors. Why should the Netherlands finance these huge investments in Germany, which the Germans themselves apparently did not want? Risks are also increasing because of changes in energy policy. TenneT needs 35 billion. They can never finance standalone without government. My specific question to you is: how is TenneT going to do that and what is the role of the State in this? I would like a concrete answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u236	These are questions that should be put to the Minister of Finance. We all know this is a state stake. That's where money goes in first and then money comes out. This is secured in legislation, both in Germany and in the Netherlands, to ensure an appropriate return. Thus, it is a relatively low risk investment. The question of why this merger, acquisition or merger actually took place is a question I cannot answer now. Firstly, it should not be in my domain and secondly, it should not have been in this cabinet period. So I'm gonna leave that for a while. You can have all kinds of opinions on this, letters have also been sent to Parliament, but the fact is that these are simply investments in network extensions, for which the user then has to pay and where a certain return has to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u237	The Minister and Mr Otten are launching a discussion which is a long way from the draft law. However, energy networks are a regulated sector in both the Netherlands and Germany. Fortunately, they are still owned by the Dutch State and the Dutch citizens. It is simply an investment that should be profitable in principle, because it is a regulated market. That also covers the risks. I assume that the Minister of Finance also attracts a lot of external money, but a shareholder must always contribute his own particle. That's pretty much the summary that applies, isn't it? Otherwise, we're gonna make it very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u238	The Minister, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u239	I leave Mr Crone's summary to Mr Crone without any rejection. It is up to the Minister of Finance to discuss this further with any Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u240	I suggest we return to this bill now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u241	I'm trying. The demand for the geopolitical consequences of the transition is a little high, because it is of course a question about the whole transition and not specifically about this bill. That was a question from Mr Pijlman. In the long term, of course, we are less and less dependent on coal, oil and gas; he knows that. In the intervening period we can become importers of gas for some time, so our own gas extraction remains important, but ultimately we are looking at a situation where we have billions less imports of fuels from other countries. It could even be that we can use this economic value in our own added value in the Dutch economy, because we are going to produce domestic techniques instead of foreign oil to meet the same need. This is also the economic opportunity we are seeing here, along with some other economic opportunities. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Pijlman's story on fair balance. How do I look at ETS? To a large extent, of course, the higher the ETS price, the less lignite and the less leakage there is and the worse the coal business case is. I keep saying that ETS remains the best way to reduce emissions in the field of industry and electricity production. It's the recurring theme over and over again. It's the easiest method for everyone. The clear biomass framework will come in 2020. The ESC and the PBL are working on it. I also think that the demand for Porthos is important. CCS is used in the industry in Rotterdam. That's what organizations are doing. These are state participations such as Gasunie, Port of Rotterdam and EBN. They are preparing the Porthos project. This is not only about transport, but also about the storage of CO under the North Sea. The capture is done by the individual companies. Several companies have now committed themselves: Shell, ExxonMobil, Air Liquide and Air Products. That would be good for two megatons of CO. The technical feasibility study is ongoing. The E.R.'s running. I expect it to be completed in Q2. Licenses are requested. The SDE grant in its final form will have to come in spring 2021. 2023 could be the year in which there is a start. I will come back later on on hydrogen, because another question has been asked. So I'd like to do that a little bit more later. The President said just now that some of the speakers may have been inclined to go a little beyond the direct subject of the legislative proposal. I think the winner in that field is Mr. Vendrik. I think it's going to pass. I'll try to answer his questions anyway. He asks me to reflect on several reports that appear. I would like to add that I am not a market analyst or a political commentator, so I'm going to keep it a little concise. The Emissions Gap Report simply indicates that we need to do more. Mr Vendrik and I will agree. The Netherlands also believes that more needs to be done. In fact, the Netherlands also dares to say that more must be done than 49%. We're actually 55%. That is what the conversation is about in Europe. The Carbon Tracker suggests that coal power plants could get into red numbers sooner. It is up to the market to respond to this. I don't really feel compelled to comment on that. Then I come to the message in The Guardian that insurances decide to deduct their hands from coal power stations. I would say that I cannot fully appreciate that message, but I do not want to dwell on it at all. Whether the coal sector can get out of or out of business faster? I have just given the long answer, in the sense that I think there are all kinds of disadvantages to it. I would just like to say that I really see the further reform of ETS as an opportunity in this context. His last remark was a working hypothesis, and there it became equally exciting. We know the working hypothesis of 1,000 billion, but a working hypothesis of 3,000 billion has now been added in ten years. Sturdy, sturdy. I just needed to catch up. Look, what's happening is we're looking at the risks of actual climate change. The Planning Office for the Environment will do so more structuralally from next year. The national adaptive strategy looks at what is happening and what needs to be done. Other than that, I do not know whether we should simply do a separate study in the Netherlands. That does not give me any additional scope for action either. I think we know enough what needs to be done. We have to move on. I believe that the implementation of the Climate Agreement is crucial and I am committed to that. Not everything that's in there, I would have written down exactly as I should have done it all by myself. I am sure that counts for Mr Vendrik as well. But we still have a remarkably broad agreement, with huge support, which should reach 49%. We have a climate law that forces us to do that. My proposal really is to be disciplined in the implementation process and to do so now. Every time I tend to break a climate agreement, you have to make me crazy, because that's the beginning of the end; I shouldn't do that. He also asks me about the time frame of the biomass. I think my statement has been very clear on this. I've been reading it in the Acts for a while. This means that no new grant decisions will be taken for biomass. I did not comment on what else could be done with woody biomass. We've agreed on a whole process. We have set that out in the Climate Agreement. I have not yet given a ruling on what could come out of that sustainability framework. However, new subsidies for biomass are not included in this cabinet period. The existing decisions will continue, but they will expire at some point. That's an end to it. I believe that this is the last decision in 2027 and in some of the earlier decisions, let me say for the record. The North Sea agreement is being discussed very actively in the Cabinet and I hope it will come from it. I will come back to Mr Vendrik's question on hydrogen later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u242	I understand the Minister doesn't want to comment on every financial news, but I'm not saying it for nothing. I say it to point out that in the market the energy transition may be harder than we thought a year ago. These signals are a very powerful indication, because then it's about the nails. Then insurance lapses, then financiers get restless and then it all gets a completely different real meaning than we thought on paper last year. My point is, and that's why I'm bringing it up, not to talk about this beautiful news in and out, although that's also nice, but that this may have consequences for the acceleration of the energy transition and that it's relevant to this bill. This bill regulates the prohibition of coal and introduces replacement production of 11.5 gigawatts at sea. That's simple enough to say what comes with it and what goes off. If the energy transition goes much faster, then it might be an opportunity to see where there are acceleration possibilities when introducing renewable energy. That is why I am bringing up this North Sea agreement. That kind of message is for me, and I hope for the Minister, an indication that there is work to be done. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u243	If we can do it faster, we have to do it faster. I do not think that the roll-out of wind at sea depends primarily on what is happening with energy prices or the business economics of coal power stations, but I think that depends on being able to manage this massive roll-out project. I don't know if an acceleration in one field directly affects another. But wouldn't it be fantastic if it could be faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u244	I have a brief clarifying question. The Minister says very clearly that co-financing in biomass plants is no longer subsidised. Am I saying it right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u245	If it's a biomass plant, it's called combustion, because then it's just a biomass plant. When we talk about coal-fired power stations, it's called "abyss." There are no new grant decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u246	Thank you for the clear explanation, but does that still apply to the switch to fully wood-fired biomass or biomass in general in coal-fired power plants? Will there still be opportunities to subsidise this when the transition is complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u247	For the time being, there is no subsidy for this and that is not at all the case in this cabinet period. We do not see any possibility of entertaining coal plants into biomass plants during this period. That's not the issue at all. The Dijkhoff-II cabinet may have to decide on a number of Cabinets. And then I'm sure we can have a discussion about it here. But that's not the issue right now. I didn't make a ruling on it either. I didn't rule it out, and I didn't embrace it. I find a period of cabinet ruling beyond your grave, but this is about beyond that, so I haven't mentioned it. I have made it very clear that new grant decisions are no longer on the agenda for coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u248	Mr. Vendrik, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u249	Thank you for that answer, because my question was about its consequences. Would it not then be logical to say, pending that sustainability framework, the ESC opinion and so on for other decisions on biomass applications, which are not for coal-fired power stations, that this should take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u250	Other biomass is subject to other issues. For wood pellets, the jumping points are whether we can always prove that it is really sustainable and that we are not swaying huge carbon debts around or cutting primordial forests to keep it warm here for a while. In other forms of biomass there are quite different issues. One of the issues that is dominant there is air quality. We have said that we are not going to suspend the biomass schemes, but we are going to work on emission standards. For certain types of biomass plants a licensing obligation is envisaged and there will be a Clean Air Agreement, so that is another way to deal with the problems. Like I said, clean air is an issue. We are working on it, but we are not going to stop the arrangements now. We are working to ensure that it is used in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u251	The last one at this point, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u252	Just for precision. All very well what the Minister says about what is being worked on and that it is partly about other issues, such as air quality. It also depends on the type of power and use etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u253	It depends very much on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u254	There's quite a zoo to name biomass. My point is quite simple. This is all work being done. There will be a sustainability framework and an ESC opinion. That is being looked at widely and then we get an appreciation from the Minister on how to proceed. Then it's a little crazy to just keep the store open and say: if you want to come in for a grant today, are you welcome? Why don't we wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u255	No, I don't think that's crazy. The moment you find that you need to look at the policy again, that is not a direct reason to stop the policy now. You don't do that anywhere. If you want to think about a new form of study funding or child care allowance, then you're not going to stop the study funding or withhold the child care allowance from everyone. That's not the idea. You name what you want to think about, then you do it, and then you change the policy. But to say now that we are leaving a few months or a year or two from the transition, because we are still thinking whether we need to change the policy... This does not seem to me to be the case in the context of the 49% I have to raise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u256	One last comment on this point, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u257	I believe that there is a small increase in the requests that are now coming to the Minister's office. At the same time, the social debate has now been heard and there has been some reluctance. Then it is amazing that we are giving the Minister room today to spend money in the suspicion that it would not be approved tomorrow. Well, then we'd better do it right at once, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u258	I give the floor to the Minister and then I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u259	There's no "today." With this law, we are not suddenly able to spend on other biomass. This law is simply about banning coal for electricity production. If the word "biomass" already appears in the law, it is in the explanatory memorandum. This law is not about biomass, and certainly not about other biomass. We have arrangements. As soon as we think that arrangements need to be changed, we will change those arrangements. And that's what we're thinking about right now. Anyone else, whom I have not mentioned so far, deserves to be on a pedestal in the field of biomass. That's the Minister for the Environment and Housing, or is it Living and Environment? Stientje van Veldhoven. She focuses on the requirements we impose on biomass. She'll think about it. As soon as it becomes clear that we need to tighten those demands, she will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u260	I'd like to get back to the bill. I would like to ask a clarification question about this law, the Climate Agreement and the Climate Act. The Minister just said, in a subtlety, at the beginning of his reply to Mr Vendrik, that we are dealing with the climate agreement, which requires 40% reduction. We have committed by means of the Climate Act to 49%. But at the very beginning of the speech, the Minister said: 'coal is not good'. My question is: could it have been 40% with some coal? If so, what does that mean for the future? If that is not the case, what about abroad, for example in Germany, which the Minister said in the course of his speech that there is a roll-out to 2032, 2038 or 2040?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u261	When I say "coal doesn't work," I mean 2050. You may be able to do something with coal by 2030 with a great deal of violence and, by the way, very considerable costs. But then you're not exactly cheap out. Again, we have determined the most efficient path until 2030 and until 2050 and we simply want to keep costs as low as possible. That's important. It is not just about sustainability, it is also about the extent to which we can carry it together. Coal will not be a source in the mix. I'm not gonna make any statements about Germans. I'm not gonna predict whether or not they're gonna make it. I stand here for Dutch policy. The Dutch policy is to recognise that coal cannot be part of the long-term mix and that you need to get rid of it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u262	Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u263	I too stand here for the Dutch interest. You stand here for Dutch policy. That's what the proportions are; at least, that's what I'm assuming. This means, in concrete terms, that we would not have to be completely rid of coal by 2030. Who's gonna correct us if we stay below 40%? Is that Paris? Is that Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u264	The questions about how we deal with all these legal obligations and whether we have not put ourselves in a huge suit that just doesn't fit, Mr Schalk set in his term. I'll get back to you on that. I'm now working my senator-by-sense through the package. Mr Schalk's accident is that he was somewhere at the end. But I'll get there. I will continue until the end, even though the President thinks I should speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u265	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u266	Mr Van Kesteren started out critically, but gradually became more friendly, I noticed. He started with "incoherent," then it became "wispy," but then it became "moveable." I waited for soup and findable, but they didn't come. But I can live with "moveable." I think his point is very good. He will not deny that a government must always respond to new emergencies. That is the case with climate, but also with international trade, with nature and with gas extraction in Groningen, if I may call it. There are also some new emergencies there. You may also have to respond to new emergencies in the area of the tax environment. A government must act according to the urgency of that moment. On the other hand, I agree with him, of course, that if we are going to mop up enormously, no one will understand it anymore, and that people will think that we have gone mad here. Keeping the middle between those things is not easy; that is the challenge. It is Mr Van Kesteren who oversees this in his role as a senator. He's on the critical side. In this case, I can imagine a little bit of that. In any case, he called for stability to be included in the policy. I fully agree with that. Then I'll go see Mrs. Gerkens. She used the word "before" or "then" for appointments. I don't know when "then" is, but because no appointments were made, no appointments were made. She said in a clause: "We're just going to import more now," but maybe I miswritten that. Because we're gonna do that in the short term, but of course we're gonna be an exporter. But I see she shakes no. Then I've misunderstood, and then I won't say another word about it. This inaccuracies should not be written on Mrs Gerkens' account. I have also heard Mrs Huizinga's concerns about biomass. We need to monitor explicitly. If we get a look at cascading, I recognise that it is the question of how or in what period, for example, electricity generation would fit into that cascading. What's the whole frame of it? At the same time, it will recognise that biomass is not only useful and indispensable in the mix, but also that four coalition parties, including the Christian Union, have managed to make a climate agreement that includes this, with all the commitments for care around it. Then Mr Crone. For the spectator on this side that was an interesting part of the... I don't think we're going to be able to do that right now. Mrs Huizinga has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u267	I had also asked if you would consider the legal sustainability, despite the fact that the Council of State gave a positive opinion on this. I would have asked you if you would answer Mr Crone's question or how much you work in Europe, what you do with it and how you deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u268	I thought that I had gone into cooperation in Europe at the very beginning. I mentioned not only the pentalateral link, but also the bilateral links. I have highlighted the role of the various TSOs. But it is a good call from Mrs Huizinga. In this way, we must ensure that we continue to provide energy for these enormous changes in the future. I thought I had gone into legal sustainability by saying that I regard this as regulation and in no way as expropriation. The parties are, of course, free to exercise their rights, but I think it was sufficiently foreseeable that the situation could change with regard to the coal fuel. I shall stick to that for a moment, because I must remain sufficiently brief in this role and not anticipate any procedure. Mr. Chairman. One of the more beautiful moments in this debate was the coverage of Schumpeter. It was a moment of some sort of convergence. I have read that same book, about in the foreword, as the prediction of the end of capitalism and the conversion to socialism. The funny thing is that I then hear the pseudosocialist in our company from the Social Democrats holding a whole market story and that Mr Otten chooses to embrace Schumpeter completely. A greater consensus is almost inconceivable. I therefore greatly admire the way in which you use this reflection to move towards each other. I would like to thank Mr Crone for his extremely nuanced speech on biomass. I say it again, because I mean it: I am grateful to Mr Crone for his nuanced speech on biomass. I learned a few words from him: biomass is stored solar energy. I always say, CCS is an underground forest. I shall therefore give that statement to Mr Crone. Mr Crone asks whether compensation or loss compensation is actually needed. It can be read in the documents that we believe that this is not necessary. I think that is what I am talking about in the spirit of Mr Crone himself. His idea that I could perform with Altmaier is a good idea, but I reflected on it. With the idea not to close them in the Netherlands, Mr Crone shows a certain detachment with regard to the coalition agreement, but I have of course also known the Labour Party in times when it was very text-based. Mr Van Ballekom asked what the grant agreement is. Over a period of 20 years, gross could amount to 14 billion, but on average two thirds of it is spent. Then you're talking about about 9 to 10 billion over 20 years, so that's 0.5 billion a year. That is only because at that time these biomass applications were among the cheapest solutions for CO savings through an auctioning mechanism called SDE. We will see that we always see that the cheapest solutions are becoming cheaper and more and more affordable solutions are being added. In this respect, the energy mix will continue to shift for a while. Mr Van Ballekom also asked how many hectares of solar panels are involved if we were to supply solar energy to the whole of Amsterdam. That is such an unrealistic figure that I have just abstracted it. Maybe it wasn't the sun, but it was the forest. I believe we were in the woods with Mr Van Ballekom. But I haven't been able to calculate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u269	You can forget about Amsterdam. That was just an illustration, because it is almost impossible to depend solely on solar energy or on solar and wind energy, even because it is not adjustable. My question about subsidies was actually a different one. How many of the 14.3 billion you mentioned in the letter or in the reply is still available? In other words, is the total amount of 14.3 billion committed? In other words, if we were to stop the policy of subsidies, is there any money left that we might be able to spend in a different way? That's only possible if it's not fully committed. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u270	Yes, it is completely committed, but yet it is true that in the long term you could spend some of this amount differently, because it is only statistically necessary for two thirds; at least that has been the case so far. The strange thing is that it is fully committed, but that in the long run resources could also be released.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u271	From my analysis of whether or not I had a claim for damages, the Minister moved fairly quickly to the next speaker, but I just wanted to ask how that actually works. Of course, you have a basic path. A company is in a basic path of less rising energy prices, sales and rising CO emission prices; CCS has fallen, hasn't it? That's the basic path. If they lose in that, you don't have to compensate, just as completely apart from this law? But I read in the papers that they want a billion dollars. Yeah, I'd like that too if I was losing, but that's exactly my market orientation: the lusts and the burdens. You can keep your winnings, but of course we're not going to compensate for losses as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u272	The good thing for us is, of course, that we all want to have a billion; we agree on that. If market conditions, market prices, changes...................................................................................................................................................................... This could be the result of an SDE decision. But if you build a power station and then the prices are disappointing, basically: then you're on your own. This is a compensation measure which I believe is not due as a result of a decision by a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u273	Is the procedure then that they come to you and say: an angry letter, or perhaps a friendly letter, but we have suffered a little damage through that law; do us only 200 million, 300 million or a billion? And then you just say, as you say right now, I do not agree. Then they can just go to court and decide, I take it? 'Cause I'd like to wait and see. I guess the judge doesn't just say, "Here you have it."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u274	Anyone can go to court. The position expressed in the legislative proposal is that there is no need to compensate for any damage. That's the cabinet's point of view. If anyone thinks that that point of view is bullshit, then the courtroom is always open. Then hydrogen. Hydrogen, the smallest molecule... no, I don't think I'm getting to the smallest molecule.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u275	Before we get to the smallest molecule: the people who built those coal power stations did so on the initiative of a previous government. Now people are saying: well, the policy is being changed, too bad. According to the Minister, what long-term implications does this have on the perceived reliability of the Dutch State as a partner to undertake this type of large, long-term investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u276	I have answered that question twice to Mr Van der Linden in relation to nuclear energy. I think that we are dealing here with a market which at the time was foreseeable that this would not take off or at least not last long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u277	That's not an answer to my question. How was that foreseeable, then, according to the Minister? At the time, the government, through Minister Brinkhorst of Economic Affairs, your predecessor in the Balkende II cabinet, came up with the idea of doing so. Surely as an investor, you can rely on a business case being built there to earn your investment back? We have, of course, had a whole discussion about dividend taxation, but these things, which happen here, are many times more damaging to the locational environment than what the dividend tax could ever have made up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u278	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u279	How's the Minister handling that? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u280	It will not be conducive, depending on the type of investor, but it may be beneficial for some investors. If we seriously build a sustainable infrastructure for industry, including for process industry, in the Netherlands, we know that it will be attractive for a lot of companies to settle here, because you will not have the infrastructure for both CCS and hydrogen as well as heat exchange, etc. We do believe that the energy transition on all kinds of companies can also have a positive appeal. That's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u281	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u282	Contrary to what the Minister claims, I hear stories that the chemical industry is moving away from the Netherlands, also because they can no longer use gas because of this minister. You think you have the wisdom in rent. What if you're wrong? Then we are faced with huge long-term consequences for the Netherlands: for the investment climate, financial repercussions, damages. Does it ever occur to you that you may be wrong and that the risks are much greater than you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u283	This was your last interruption at this point. I also refer you to your second term, later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u284	I'm not willing to rely 100% on what we know or hear now. That is why we have written in the Climate Agreement on the whole transition that we always want to keep an eye on what this does for the location climate. That is also what resources are earmarked for. We also have to take account of the fact that the locational environment remains as good as possible when the measures are being developed for industry. We want to keep the playing field. So that's what we do. There too, someone who thinks he knows and trusts it for the next ten years is crazy. So you have to keep watching every time. We have set up some kind of instruments and means for this. No, I wouldn't dare say I can make predictions for the next ten years. I'm not gonna do that either. Mr. Chairman. Hydrogen is clearly part of the energy supply, but it is also part of the industry of the future, especially the process industry. It could be a fuel. You can produce the familiar hydrocarbons using CO and hydrogen. That's important, because there won't be any big oil ships coming in anymore. So we need to get our C's and H's from somewhere else. That would mean that hydrogen could serve as a feed stock. That's the way we're gonna use hydrogen. How you can raise it? Eventually the goal will be to produce as much green hydrogen as possible, but on our way there we also work with so-called blue hydrogen. This means that you produce hydrogen and capture the CO that is produced and store it underground. One thing must lead to another. We still have a factor of ten to go. We must therefore make full use of economies of scale and innovations. That means we don't just have to study, we also have to do pilots. We've got to be able to scale up. We need to get this off the ground in all kinds of ways, with a whole programme. If that succeeds and if we are soon the location where you can distribute both heat and capture CO, get hydrogen from one of the most windy seas in the world, combined with great hinterland connections, fantastic connections on the seaport side and cooling possibilities on the water, then I dare say that there is no other location where the process industry of later, in a sustainable form, is better housed than right here in the Netherlands. That's where we need to go. If we don't want to see this as an opportunity, and if we don't want to look at this offensively, I'm sure that opportunity will be missed. That's how we're supposed to be in here: offensive. The issue of hydrogen, which has also been mentioned, is also a matter for storage in relation to the problems we discussed regarding security of supply. Hydrogen also plays a role in this. Mr Schalk is concerned about the extent to which we are in the process of making more and more legislation in succession, which means that we are securing ourselves. I understand that concern. In that context, I think he has thought, for example, of the Climate Law. It is important for the Climate Act that the 2030 targets have been set as targets. Because of damage and shame, one becomes wise. That's not to pretend they don't matter. We just have targets. That's what we agreed. We want to send it. The whole law is set up on that. We have done this in such a way as to ensure that we are not legally suspended in exactly the same way. In the Climate Act, we have therefore made the targets for 2050 harder than those for 2030. The purpose of this is not to make ourselves lazy, but the idea is that we are not legally checkmate. That's one of the things we do. Furthermore, of course, we are adopting European legislation here. That could lead to obligations that are harsh. We have, of course, recently seen some fine examples of this. Mr Schalk also asked why we did not make good use of the ETS. I've already made it clear that that's my preferred solution. I will try in all kinds of ways, including in conversation with Mr Timmermans, to make sure that we tighten up that system and make the most of it. It's really the best system. Mr Schalk was also concerned about exporting the problem to other countries. He is right, of course, to say that it is not necessarily neat if we have an effect of sixteen or eighteen, depending on the estimate, with some of it leaking abroad. Read: part leads to extra emissions abroad. On the other hand, we have a European energy market. Staying within the ETS is not a national goal. We have a common goal. Let's establish that what we're doing works. The ban on coal actually leads to a reduction, including at European level. It's not like the whole problem is about the hedge. Yeah, there are side effects, but the policy does work. Precisely because we wanted to limit road leaks, this does not apply to the new plants until 2030. It would have been a very different story if it had entered in 2020, because then the road leak was complete. Once again, we face the Dutch as a monkey, and the climate has nothing to do with that. That is why we are temporising it and that the final closure is foreseen in 2030, in accordance with the government agreement. I am through the answers, but Mr Schalk feels differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u285	Mr Schalk would like to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u286	I don't think so, but I do have one more question. The Minister says that because of this leak, we postponed it to 2030. I cannot fully understand the judgment on this law of the Council of State. That law was not about 2020, it was about 2030. The Council of State's response to the leaking is precisely about this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u287	I am not denying that there has been a leak, either, but it will have an effect in net terms if you allow it to go into 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u288	I understand that, but the opinion of the Council of State says quite clearly: at the time this law is introduced, we have a reduction of 18 megatons, but because of the leak it becomes 8 megatons. That's not about 2020, it's just about this whole law. In other words, more than half of what we win, we lose again because foreign countries have to reproduce it. That, while we know that these foreigners are held to the 40% just as hard as we are. We have made it even more difficult by pinning ourselves on 49%. You're gonna have a huge problem, aren't you? About the 10 megatons we say: they do so abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u289	There's two sides to this. The first is that if you knock out coal power plants and thereby save 18 megatons, someone else in the world is going to generate electricity. That could be inland, or overseas. Somewhere this is replaced by other production. It could be from gas plants, but it could be from anything. If we do this by 2030, this will be to a large extent gas plants. The German coal-fired power stations will then no longer be what they used to be. This will therefore include alternative emissions. It's lower than the total. It's just a physical fact that you have to start raising this in a different way if you don't do it this way anymore. It's not like in 2030 the sun will suddenly shine twice as loud. So that's a fact. What Mr Schalk is trying to do is to do so abroad. But yes, this is a small country and we are in a European energy market. You cannot guarantee that you will get the alternative emissions per se in the Netherlands. They're just estimates. Maybe that's what's gonna happen. That's not up to us. We have agreed on an energy market in Europe. This means that we deliver energy in the most efficient way. In addition, a country may start to import more or to export more. That is what we see in ourselves: we have been importers for years, but we will soon be exporters. That can be said abroad: dear, those poor Dutch people must now suddenly produce this for us. Yeah, that's true, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u290	Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u291	Let's cut it in half. Then we agree, I think, that at least we would achieve about half the return on the reduction. That's so small that you're also... Although "little," it's still a very large amount. But why don't you do that with your own resources? I am talking about the possibility not to stop rucksichtslos completely after 2030, but to say, for example, that we are going to use those old power stations for biomass, but at those very state-of-the-art, super-clean coal plants we are going to turn our own buttons to ensure that we get close to those 8 megatons, which we would otherwise have by completely stopping and transferring abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u292	Wait a minute. What if we were to say that we are not taking coal-fired power plants completely out of commission as a coal-fired power station, but half of them? Then the gross effect is not 18 but 9 megatons. Whatever! Yeah, it's beautiful. But there is also a part of it leaking away, because these 9 megatons of emissions have to be produced elsewhere in a different way. So there's probably a factor over that, too. 'Cause it's not like the sun's gonna shine harder for that nine megaton. So you'll always see that someone else in the world is going to produce energy in the Netherlands or abroad. And that's not sustainable at the time. Because if that had been the case, that power plant would have stopped in the first place. It's not like the sun will shine twice as fast as 01-01-2030 or the wind will blow twice as fast. So someone's gonna produce that. So you always have some road leaks. And I keep saying, there is no solution with coal in it. It's wise to phase that out. 2030 is not an unwise time. Yeah, you might have preferred to do it through ETS. Yeah, you might have preferred to do it somewhere else, with a less efficient plant. That's all at your service. But we are talking about our policy, we are not doing European policy on our own here, and we are not responsible for the Germans either. So we do what we can and our policy, which has been announced here, works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u293	I had the impression that the Minister had forgotten a piece of paper containing the questions I asked, but they could also be answered in the second term. First of all, I would like to support the Minister's comments on hydrogen. I fully endorse that. I also noticed that it takes a lot of energy to produce that hydrogen. Can we do that if we are only dependent on the available energy generation that we have now and where we are going? I also asked: why is variable power not eligible and non-regulated? That's what the Minister's answer says. A third question I asked, which I expect an answer to, is the following. Alternatives are put forward by the Minister for the power stations which have to switch to biomass, such as iron powder, ammonia and some other things. I am not a specialist in this area and have asked whether it is technically justified to promote it. That sounds a little weird to me. I have one final question, and I do not even want to talk about the facilitation of CO storage or the construction of nuclear power plants, because we can also facilitate some of that as a government without providing subsidies. But I have one last question that I would like answered. Otherwise, I'll come back to that. Would a delay in the treatment of this law by three months be a huge disaster? I understand that in three or four months' time we will have the information provided by the Planning Bureau for the Environment, the sustainability framework that the Minister will be presenting and the ESC opinion. So we have a complete overview of biomass and that sort of thing. This is not directly related to this draft law, but it is very relevant in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u294	Mr. Chairman. I am going to answer the questions now, with apologies to Mr Van Ballekom that I thought I had already answered those questions in the rest of the speech. So I haven't done that explicitly enough. It takes a lot of energy to produce hydrogen. Yeah, it just depends on how much hydrogen you produce. I think Mr Van Ballekom means that the conversion efficiency is low. We have a conversion efficiency to hydrogen and then hydrogen. That conversion efficiency is low. That's right. But, of course, in the economy and in the costs, it is not just about the conversion efficiency but about the total system costs. You can create a very expensive system, with very high energy conversion rates, but then it remains an expensive system. We are looking for a system with the most economic solution. Then it may be that you have a low conversion efficiency, but in return some cheaper generation or cheaper transport or less transactions in consumption. The conversion efficiency from a wind generator to electricity is very high, but then you're stuck with expensive cables and a whole mess. So you're looking for the lowest system cost per unit of useful energy. And that the thermal efficiency is low, can then be increased in all kinds of applications. The second point is that the variable capital is not eligible and the rest is eligible. Well, not after 2025 at all. We believe that electricity should no longer be subsidised. And the adjustable abilities now all belong to the classic and well-designed forms of energy while the non-regulating ones are just the ones with uneconomic peaks. So the subsidy flows make no distinction between adjustable and non-regulatory, but between an uneconomic top but badly needed and not an uneconomic top but not so badly needed. That's the distinction we make and what makes the SDE. Is it technically justified to promote all the uses of these plants? I am not prepared, capable or intending to promote anything. It is up to the owner himself to draw his business plans and see what is feasible and economically profitable. I am not at all ready to promote anything, because in principle the government has no direct operational interference with electricity production, other than through the SDE things with an uneconomic summit. And finally, is delay a disaster? Delay doesn't seem productive to me. We now have our sustainability criteria for this type of biomass in place. You can still elaborate on cascading there, and that's next year. But this changeover, which we would possibly talk about, if it were to happen, is in 2030. So I don't know why we're waiting three months to get some certainty about what might happen in 2030. But possibly not. We want this legislation to go through, because we want to close a first plant by 2020. That's why this is useful. However, biomass demand will be dealt with in 2030, and these three months will have no impact on that at all. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u295	Thank you, Minister. Then we came to the end of the first term. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 7:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u296	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u297	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering our questions. He embraces our concerns about biomass. He says this keeps him sharp, but it doesn't change his course. The mammoth tanker sails according to schedule, although there are many obstacles. Without biomass, we cannot make it, the mantra, while more and more experts are saying the opposite: we cannot make it with biomass. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister has not removed the fog surrounding the origin of biomass. For example, the Minister indicates that labels are being looked at, but a so-called sustainability label for forest management, the FSC label, does not prevent companies such as Enviva's RWE wood pellets from burning. That's one of the companies that says they use 80% whole trees. With the transition from coal to biomass, this can lead to ever-increasing tree cover. According to independent experts, the minister's residual claims do not cut wood, even more so, they do not leave much to be desired, but the minister still insists. The planting of more forest production can be at the expense of biodivers forests and may take an unacceptable advance on the future. In addition, in response to the failure to meet the Urgenda targets, the Minister announced additional grants for renewable energy projects, not excluding biomass. All this does not reassure my group. Because I detect a growing cry in this house to limit wood-burning in power plants, I would like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Gerkens, Mr Koffeman and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to Enviva VS, the world's largest producer of wood pellets, 80% of the wood pellets are made from trees and only 20% of wood waste;]] [[Whereas the Belgian pellet manufacturer Ecopower confirms that its pellets are mainly made from logs from Dutch forests;]] [[Whereas Grainul from Estonia, the world's second pellet manufacturer, processes massive wood from cut trees into pellets;]] [[Whereas the prohibition of coal leads to a massive conversion to wood-fired power plants;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate and report to the Court the possibility of banning wood-burning for energy generation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u298	Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister has also not given sufficient consideration to the progressive understanding that biomass leads to higher emissions than coal and gas plants. The increased CO emissions cannot be absorbed by new plantings within the time window that, according to climate science, remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u299	I have not yet been able to take note of the text of the motion, but the motion ends with: stop using biomass. The previous motion of the PvdD, which I wholeheartedly supported, was: wait for the new frameworks and perhaps that will lead to a stronger label for anything. Should we now roll over each other, or be patient and say: we have agreed to wait for the process in relation to the planning agency first? After that, however, this motion may be absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u300	This motion does not deal with subsidies, as opposed to Mr Koffeman's motion. This motion can be seen in conjunction with the legislative proposal we are discussing today. If there is a ban on coal, there will also be an alternative to coal. The way it looks now, it's biomass. The PvdD aims to prevent the use of woody biomass for this purpose. That is what the motion is about, but it does not contradict the motion adopted by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u301	But if the motion is adopted, the study of the PBL is no longer necessary, because then there should be no wood addition in coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u302	Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u303	If you can't, you don't have to figure out what you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u304	Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u305	But maybe I see it too black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u306	Mr Crone, when you are ready, I will give the floor to Mrs Teunissen, but you will have to wait until you get the floor again, otherwise we will all be talking through each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u307	I was still formulating my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u308	In my view, this motion does not rule out the other in any way. If this motion is to be adopted, then it is still necessary that we refrain from subsidies. So it goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u309	Mr Crone, the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u310	Let me make a final comment. If the woody is simply banned, subsidies are not involved, because on nothing you cannot grant a subsidy and then a label is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u311	I'm not going to argue about this. I've already made my point. The two motions complement each other and are not mutually exclusive. This is purely and simply because we are talking today about a ban on coal. To this end, we want to exclude the possibility of non-sustainable alternatives. The increased CO emissions cannot be absorbed by new plantings within the time window that, according to climate science, remains. I am referring to independent research, while we have gas plants in the mothballs that can wake up and while Norway or Russia want to supply gas as relatively clean transition fuel. I therefore propose the next motion for a resolution to encourage it. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Gerkens, Mr Koffeman, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ban on the use of coal by the Cabinet is aimed at promoting biomass-based energy generation as a transition model;]] [[noting that according to the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences (KNAW), devoid of biomass results in at least as many emissions as would be the case for coal;]] [[Whereas, according to the Academy, it takes 20 to 100 years for a newly planted tree to re-create the C0 emitted and that therefore, in practice, much renewable biomass, including forest cover, is not sustainable;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that if the three remaining coal plants do not close down before 2030 but switch to a replacement fuel, or if they are used on substitute biomass in any form, this will not in practice lead to a net emissions higher than would have been achieved in the period up to 2050,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u312	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u313	I call Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u314	Mr. Chairman. We've been here for a few hours debating, but we're actually ignoring the big question. It says: is CO really a problem, or do we make it a problem? Is the starting point correct? In fact, CO is still a building material for plants. We all know that CO is just sprayed into the greenhouses to make things grow and thrive. Even without CO, there's no life here on Earth. It is very special that we will not be able to predict the weather in the next week, but we will be able to predict the climate change. I find that somewhat contradictory. That climate dislocation would then come from the human being who emits too much CO, but the amount of CO caused by man is in fact negligible. You might wonder where we're gonna pump in all these billions. Nevertheless, this cabinet simply wants to put a green noose around the e.g. The Netherlands. Biomass is used to pass this bill. It is simply used so that one no longer has to speak of "expropriation" of property, but of "regulating" property. In fact, it's just a political trick. And then we're going to devoid of biomass to generate electricity, which is even more inefficient and gives much more CO emissions. The Minister states that we will continue this disastrous mission. We're moving on to CO-neutral society. Even if it's going to cost billions, it doesn't matter. But all these costs are passed on to Dutch households. And the disposable income has been under pressure for years. Already 650,000 households are living in energy poverty, and that is what is becoming more. In the AD it is calculated that 1.5 million households will be able to pay the energy bill with difficulty in 2030. And especially for the socialists among us: the impact is the biggest on the lowest incomes. Just let that get to you. Mr President, you understand that the PVV is not against this bill, but it is not against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u315	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For our group today was one of the most surreal experiences so far in this Upper House. We are witnessing a process of capital destruction that is unprecedented in Dutch history. It is presented by VVD Minister Wiebes as an everyday self-evident feature, between his other activities, but what is happening here today will have long-lasting consequences for the Netherlands and the next generation of Dutch people through a completely obsession with an arbitrary CO reduction rate. Minister Wiebes earlier this afternoon indicated that he was particularly interested in the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter, who invented the concept of "creative destruction" in the 1940s. This doesn't surprise us. The policy of this minister, and with him that of the Rutte cabinet, leads to a gigantic destructive process: destruction of capital, destruction of trees and destruction of jobs. Indeed, as a minister, you must be particularly creative in order to achieve this with a law of barely two pages. That's the true creative destruction, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. This law has nothing but drawbacks. I'll list some of them. As recalled, there are billions of capital destruction. In fact, the most modern coal power stations in the world, a few years old, are being shut down as a result of this law. This already results in a billion-dollar damage, apart from any claims that might result from that. The conversion to biomass is actually a euphemism for "growing trees in power plants." Actually, there's nobody waiting for that from left to right. The security of supply of our electricity is at stake. And not unimportant, as I have already recalled in the debate: the Dutch location climate is getting a huge blow through an unpredictable government policy on which investors cannot base long-term decisions. They will probably pass the Netherlands in the future, with this unreliable, fickle VVD policy of South American proportions. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that our group is calling on this Chamber to repent and not to adopt this law and vote against it. At least we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u317	Thank you, Mr. Otten. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for his reply. In my first term, I talked about geopolitical considerations in energy policy. Without mentioning that word, the Minister has actually dealt with it. He said: we have the pentalateral consultation and, of course, I agree with Germany. Mr Crone has also said the necessary thing about this. We believe that it is indeed extremely important to seek that consultation so that together you can make the same choices as much as possible. Of course, we understand that the Germans also make their own considerations, given the circumstances they stand for. My point was also made that we should gradually make the energy transition so that we do not become increasingly dependent on Russian gas, especially for geopolitical reasons. The Minister said: in the end, we will be less dependent on it. Sure, we hope so. But in the meantime, we have a long time to go. How do we coordinate this with Germany and others as well as possible? I hope you will take that up again. The best way to shut down the coal plants would be an ETS. This was also discussed in Madrid today. If you look at the disadvantage compensation offered to the plant operators and the future of the ETS and the tendency for a cautious increase, where does that ultimately lead to? It could also be that those ten years are actually a very long period. After all, a whole number of coal power stations are already running at a loss. If that's the case, a scenario looks very different. The Minister addressed our comments on CCS in Rotterdam. He said if it all worked out, that system could run by 2023. By the way, it is extremely positive that the industry in Rotterdam picks that up again, after the coal plant operators failed to do so in 2017 even though they had promised it before. So I say to Mr. Otten: you can't insist that people didn't know what was coming. We have made our own choices which should lead to these decisions. Mr. Chairman. There has been talk of biomass for a long time today, and quite rightly so. We stick to the definitions given by EPBC and to the texts from the Climate Agreement. There is no doubt in our minds that in the short term we will not be able to live without biomass. Woodburn and biomass are not the same, by the way. We are now waiting for the framework that the Environment Minister will present this spring. But we do say to this minister and to the cabinet: be vigilant and be strict, because, as you yourself said, we are obviously not waiting for a deterioration in the situation. You have already promised that subsidies for new biomass streams will not be given. You didn't go for Urgenda. When the cabinet called for this law to be dealt with quickly, before Christmas, I honestly had in mind that this might also have to do with the statements in the Urgendavonnis. I would find that a very logical connection. But I would also like to know where we stand with this decision. What remains to be done and what does the cabinet intend to do? You were positive about what Mr van der Linden said about nuclear power stations and, in particular, about the possibilities with thorium plants. You expect the necessary and you were very positive about that. But I do not believe that the Netherlands is involved in any research into thorium at all? Perhaps you'd like to say something about that. It's good to hear you're so positive about hydrogen. We expect a lot of that for certain parts of the energy transition. This innovation includes very good industrial opportunities for the Netherlands, including in terms of employment. However, it is striking that, while we want to drive this innovation with hydrogen, as far as I know hydrogen projects are not eligible for funding under the SDE++ scheme. So what is the way for the cabinet to promote the use of hydrogen? The European Union has just made substantial funding available for the project in which a large number of Dutch companies participate. Everyone actually sees a lot of possibilities in it. Then what is the Dutch commitment aimed at? Thank you for your commitment to inform us about the promotion of employment for those who lose their jobs as a result of the closure of the Hemwegcentrale. You'll come back to that. I am sure you will respond to the remaining points that I have left from this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u319	I was addressed by Mr Pijlman. What he just said isn't entirely correct. I figured it out for a while. Both CDA Minister for Economic Affairs Van der Hoeven and a PvdA Minister said that these plants would have a lifespan until 2050. Calculations have also been made for CO emissions up to the year 2050. There is therefore a real reason for the owner of the plants to trust that they could operate in these plants until 2050. So what Mr Pijlman just said at the beginning of his speech is not correct. I'd like to straighten that out anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u320	With all due respect, I think it's correct. Mr Otten pointed out the length of delivery. But I also pointed out in my first term that, when the investment decision was taken, there were, of course, many aspects, because it was a mega-investment. Since 2007, it has been known that investments in the coal industry would be accompanied by investments in CCS. Please also read the documents of the Council of State. And yet, in 2017, operators chose to leave the CCS system, despite large amounts of funding available, and despite commitments made to local authorities, for example, to Rotterdam. To my knowledge, these are facts. If so, you can also expect the government to go another way than was originally planned. For CCS was always a reality in the decision-making process of the coal power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u321	I would like to explain this one more time. When this kind of billions of investments are made, multinationals and large companies look at the so-called 'political risk'. If you make an investment in Venezuela or Argentina, you want a much higher return, because there is a huge political risk. You can be expropriated, there's inflation, the government is unreliable and they just change the laws. We should not underestimate what is happening here with these coal power stations. I have felt that this is underestimated in this Chamber, and certainly in the Chamber on the other side. What is happening here is that the political risk of the Netherlands is increased. International investors will start thinking for a while. Are we going to invest in the Netherlands? And if we're gonna do that, we're gonna want an additional risk compensation for that. As a result, the consumer in the Netherlands will eventually pay more for his products and the purchasing power will continue to be under pressure. I'm not making this up. That's how the world works. Then we can all think here that this does not pay off in the Netherlands and that it is a kind of paradise where it is all to fix, but this is reality and reality. That is what we are now creating, including for other investments. I would like to make that clear to Mr Pijlman through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u322	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Your last words about this, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u323	Mr President, through you I would like to say to Mr Otten that a reliable government is of course extremely important for the investment environment. But I would add that since 2007, operators knew, when they took the investment decision, that they were expected to do the necessary in the field of CCS. They have made promises about this and they have not complied with it. Mr Otten forgets this aspect, which is also an important aspect when we talk about how a disadvantage compensation is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u324	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mr Van der Linden has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u325	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I argued that this coal law is an economic failure, that conversion into biomass plants is worse than the maintenance of coal plants, and that there are legal gaps in the way in which this law has been set up and explained. It is mainly aimed at not having to make a substantial compensation payment. We have heard from the Minister that he is aiming for truly sustainable biomass. The term "thin wood" came along, and there were twigs and leaves and so on. It is absolutely unrealistic to see and use that fuel for the coal plants that we now have and their capacity. It is absolutely not real if these plants are converted into biomass plants. The supply of biomass is limited. There's a shortage. That is what we discussed in the debate. Large-scale application has a huge perverse, price-driven incentive, which will lead to massive logging. The control of this seems to us to be a huge task with many uncertainties. And the emissions of biomass plants, both CO and other emissions, are equal to or higher than the emissions of current coal plants. So our conclusion is that, in our view, the conversion to biomass plant mentioned in the explanatory memorandum is a decline rather than a progress. That is why, with the support of a number of other groups, we are tabling a motion in which this House makes a political statement on the alternative of converting coal plants into biomass plants. We do not want that alternative anyway, and that is undesirable. The President shall: Mr Van der Linden, Mr Teunissen, Mr Gerkens, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Van Pareren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both in the public debate and in politics, from left to right and for various reasons, there is a growing aversion to the large-scale use of biomass;]] [[Whereas this cabinet also wants sustainable biomass to be used as high and limited as possible in the long term and that it is not a fuel that can be used everywhere infinitely;]] [[Considering that both the Cabinet and the Plan Bureau for the Environment (PBL) expect biomass to become more scarce worldwide in the run-up to and in particular from 2030;]] [[Whereas the most modern coal plants in the Netherlands would only start to operate on biomass (wood pellets) after 2030 and will therefore have a significant impact on the global availability of already scarce biomass;]] [[points out that in all respects it is undesirable for the remaining Dutch coal plants to be converted into biomass plants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u326	Thank you. That brings me to a conclusion. I have another request. Can this motion before the vote on the legislation be put on the agenda next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u327	We can do that next week, but that will have to be decided by the Chamber next week at your request. So you have to make that request again next week. Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I call Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u328	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy for his reply. Mr. Chairman. A few final points. Mr Van Kesteren referred to the fact that this was a fickle government. So taken by the bank, this is, of course, to some extent. I remember how around the turn of the year 2002-2003 outgoing Minister for Economic Affairs, without Climate Change, Mr Wijn, announced that the cabinet was planning to work on issuing permits for coal power stations. I wish we hadn't. Why did he do this? That was after an intensive lobby came to the then Minister for Economic Affairs of the big business, because there were too high energy prices in the Netherlands. Perhaps this was understandable in the context of that moment, but afterwards it was of course a wrong choice. Then it was the operators who accepted a government offer to build coal plants in the Netherlands, while they should have known that there was also something like Kyoto, climate, and that the government could be expected to make the effort in the field of climate more serious and compelling. We all know the objectives of the fourth cabinet of Balkenende. They weren't nauseous when it came to climate. Mr. Chairman. This is actually a brilliant accident in the administrative sense. So that's not a ticket for one or the other to have a preferential position. We have had 25 years of discussion in Europe about the ETS. There has been a lot of political struggle and the big business has fired a lot of lobby on it. As far as I am concerned, the Minister is absolutely right that after 25 years of talking and introducing the ETS, we have to find that the system is not working enough to date. The system of high CO prices that we need for a transition, which is also a real reflection of the economic, social and environmental damage caused by CO emissions, is still not in place. It is therefore logical that this can be expected from a government. I think that's what the judge said in the Urgenda case, too. The government should not sit back and wait for the day that the ETS will work, no matter how good that system is in principle. That's our very first option. However, national governments, including this cabinet, should opt for additional policies, for example in the form of standardisation, for example in the form of a ban on the use of the most harmful fuel for electricity production in CO terms. Mr. Chairman. It may well be that my group is voting in favour of this bill, but not after the Minister has answered a few more points. Our preferred scenario is that we are now making a deal with all coal operators, that we are using the subsidy that is available and granted for biomass for compensation and that next year all plants will close. It's very crazy, but the Minister doesn't want to do that. Okay, that's a choice. Then I have the next question to ask him. With Mr Pijlman I had also asked how he intends to carry out the Urgendavonnis. I would just like to remind you that the judge has expressly asked for a policy based on the lower limit. That's 19%. We know how this 19% came about. This happened with a CEF that estimated the imports of electricity in 2019 that is not taking place. If that happens in 2020, we may have an even bigger problem. I would like to ask the Minister to clarify this point. What is its policy aimed at the lower limit of 19%? Mr. Chairman. My third point is that the transition can be faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u329	I have a question for Mr Vendrik. Have I understood him correctly that he said that his group will vote for this law if it is decided that next year all power stations will be closed down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u330	No. That's our preferred scenario. I see, unfortunately, that there is no majority in favour of this. Like I said, it's crazy, but this minister isn't for that either. That surprises us. That doesn't change the fact that we think this bill is worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u331	Then I have misunderstood and my question has been answered very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u332	We need to speed up the transition. Look at the Emissions Gap Report, look at Madrid. Maybe we can do it faster. Look at the signals from the financial markets. I had that debate with the Minister. I see enthusiasm from the Minister for a North Sea Agreement. I assume that this will happen, because that is crucial in order to speed up the scaling up of renewable electricity in the Netherlands in the coming years too. That button is in this Climate Agreement and we would prefer to press it as soon as possible, but it requires a good North Sea agreement, plus the subsequent planning decisions. Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mr Pijlman said about hydrogen. He asked about the SDE+. That's a matter of fact. My question was another one. I haven't heard from the Minister about that either. He is working on an agenda related to the investment fund he is working on together with the Minister of Finance. I'll ask the question again. That agenda is called Growth Agenda. That's not a good term. "Transition Agenda" it should be. Can we assume that hydrogen, certainly heard what the Minister has just said about it, will become a prominent part of the investment agenda that will be part of that fund? We'll get somewhere. Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to ask another question that did not come out very well in my first term. If the Hemwegcentrale closes and after 2024 the Amercentrale, the corresponding CO rights will be removed from the market, won't they? I may have misread it, but the answer in the report is not sufficiently clear as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u333	Round it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u334	Mr. Chairman. The discussion on the green shelf life figures...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u335	Mr. Vendrik, you're a minute past your time now. You registered it yourself, so I'm gonna ask you to finish. Otherwise, I'm gonna press another button.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u336	You're tough today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u337	But it's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u338	We are continuing the debate on green sustainability figures at a different time. There's no other choice. Finally, I come to biomass. The Minister says: no new decisions for coal-fired power stations which were not to be taken until at least there is a new sustainability framework. My plea is then to do so for all biomass streams. That is so consistent, and that prevents mistakes from being made by mistake, which we regret after the adoption of that sustainability framework and its political assessment. To encourage the Minister to do so, I have this motion. Thank you, Mr President. The President shall: Mr Vendrik, Mr Gerkens, Mr Teunissen, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Karimi and Mr Crone proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Mainly that the cabinet has indicated "resisting" to deal with the issue of new grant decisions for biomass power plants;]] [[calls on the Government not to issue any new decisions for biomass plants, at least until the sustainability framework for biomass with clear cascading arrangements has been discussed in Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35167-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u339	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Appreciate the Minister's response. Appreciate his pragmatic approach as well. I recognize what I have tried to say, that a flexible view of the coming years is necessary for this matter. I think it's a good thing that he's always putting the search for support first. That's essential here. The preservation of the Climate Agreement is therefore a great asset in this whole. My input focused on two points. He spoke clearly about security of supply. They reassure me. This is less true of the legal position in the event of possible expropriation. Eventually it remains on the screen that the judge should give a ruling here. Mr President, so far. I will present the bill with a positive opinion to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u340	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u341	Mr. Chairman. Part of my first speech was about the fact that when we decided to allow these coal plants, there were signals that indicated that we were making a crucial mistake at the time. Those signals were then waved away; frankly, I can see that repeating here. Once again, the Minister raises objections. The production of biomass always costs land, so energy. When using twigs, wood from thinning et cetera there is loss of biodiversity. Energetically, we can make wood materials better than burn. Burning is really just a last resort. The demand for biomass can never be in line with the supply of truly sustainable biomass. It is also supported by a perverse incentive to turn biomass into a market. In my group's view, there is the great risk. Most organic plants are much more carbon-polluting than fossil fuels as a raw material for biofuel. And how is the control going to be on that? The Minister has only talked about wood now. I also understand that he's making a hard time for the use of biomass. Of course, he doesn't want security of supply to be compromised. However, as the use of biomass is now described, biomass is certainly not going to help in meeting our CO targets. Mr. Chairman. I therefore ask the Minister once again how much petajoule is being used by the five coal-fired power stations. 'Cause those are hard facts, that's not looking at coffee. The Minister knows how much such a power station can handle and what could be put up to maximum. He also knows how much joule the coal power plants are now running. I would also like to express my concerns about the ambitions of the Climate Agreement which cannot be achieved with clean biomass. The climate agreement goes much further than the 200 petajoule. Mr. Chairman. My group supports the closure of this plant. That can be called capital destruction, I call it entrepreneurial risk. The world can change, and this change could really have been seen coming. We have care with the alternative, which seems to be worse than it is now. We call on the Minister to stop seeing biomass as an alternative as soon as possible. That is why my group supports the motions of the Animal Party and the Democracy Forum. As a socialist, I would like to say to the PVV that the cost of transition should indeed not end up with the narrowest shoulders and that we must therefore fight together to ensure that the fossil industry takes that account. They have knowingly maintained this situation, they can also pay the price. But I certainly do not want to burden the people with the lowest incomes with the costs that will inevitably come from the damage that climate change will cause. Or abandoning the people in those countries who have no money at all to take the right measures against warming. But when I say that, I also realize that this last group cannot count on the sympathy of the PVV. The PVV can find what it thinks, for me denying the human impact on climate change is not an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u342	Let's talk about the lowest incomes. Mrs Gerkens says that these costs should be borne by the business community. But does it realize that the business community simply passes that on to the product? So in the end it ends up with the lowest incomes, which are the most affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u343	I've heard that argument before. The cost would be passed on to the product by definition. But that of course depends entirely on the product and whether someone is able to buy such a product. Certainly the lowest incomes often do not even have the opportunity to do so. But, yes, in that reasoning, you could never really put anything down in society, because someone always pays the costs. The question is, where is this burden the hardest? At the moment, as the plans often are, I agree with the PVV group that those burdens tend to end up with the consumer, with the citizen. We think much earlier that parties that have been able to build their billions of empire on fossil fuel for a longer period of time may also be able to do a year with a little less profit. We can take action to that end. We can get some money from the tax and reduce the burden on lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u344	It seems logical to me that costs should always be passed on, left-hand or right-hand. They always just come to the consumer on the sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u345	I don't know if you run a business, but in my experience I can do two things with cost: I can make sure I pass them on to the customer or I can make sure I have less profit or less income. The latter is actually an option here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u346	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Then Mrs Huizinga-Heringa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u347	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am not going to say his "extensive answer," because there are some questions that remain here and there, including mine. Anyway, it happens sometimes. I repeat a single one in the second term. The Minister said that the annual supply of biomass is monitored by the PBL. He also mentioned the point made by Mr Van Kesteren, who said: should we not take the place in 2015 and see if we are still on the right track with this road towards the closure of coal plants? What does the Minister do with this monitoring? What does that mean? If there is scarcity, price rises or whatever, what instruments does the Minister have to use? That's what I meant when I said that reports actually don't give you anything, because your economy eventually runs on electricity. I would like an answer from the Minister. The Minister said, I think, on Mr Van Ballekom's question, whether we could postpone the discussion of the law for a number of months: I do not understand that. This law is about 2020, he said, and biomass doesn't play until 2030, when the coal plants are closed. But that's a little weird, isn't it? Because if we now know that the coal plants are going to close, we are now looking at biomass and now it is important that there is a framework for biomass sustainability. Then you can't say: that biomass doesn't come until 2030. This is the time we are talking about: how do we get good biomass, how do we get sustainable biomass, and all those questions that have been raised in this debate. Did the Minister mean it when he said that biomass will not be dealt with until 2030? Then I asked how much gas we could generate, thinking that maybe we could keep the use of biomass as low as possible. I asked whether the Minister would see a combination with CCS in the future. Then, like Mr Crone, I said that we need to do more in Europe. The minister said, preferably to bet on ETS. But you can do one thing and you can't leave the other. I would think that you and your commitment to ETS, as well as trying to cooperate with neighbouring countries as much as possible. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at that. Now it seemed a bit like: I choose ETS, so I leave everything else. That's not supposed to happen, is it? We talked about biomass. Many groups have expressed their concerns. I have, let me be honest, just heard the Minister say too often: biomass is in the mix, that is part of the mix. As if, because the fact that we need that biomass, we no longer have to think about it that it is very acidic that it does increase CO emissions, that it becomes more polluting. Then we can stop all sorts of stories and say all kinds of things, but at least in the time of one generation it is. While we're all doing it because we want to bring CO emissions down. I understand that the Minister says that we need it and that it is in the mix, but I would really like to hear more from the Minister about the concerns that are there. With that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u348	I still have a question for the Christian Union. You have spoken very critically about biomass both in the first term and now. We'll share that. Do you support us in the motion that it is undesirable that the coal plants that remain and which are to be closed by this bill should be converted into biomass plants? Do you agree that we are against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u349	I think that is far too far-reaching. First of all, I want to wait and see what the Minister's answers are about. But let me be honest with you: my group thinks it is a difficult law. It feels a little like choosing between two evils. Eventually, we want to get rid of the coal. We need to see how we can do it wisely. I hope that the Minister will come up with a very good sustainability framework, with very sensible subsidy measures and other measures that will minimise the use of biomass. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u350	That's a little too easy. I'm gonna get on with it anyway. You can just speak politically here and do whatever you want with that coal law. You can say politically that the Christian Union thinks it is a bad idea for coal plants to be converted into even more polluting biomass plants. You can just speak out against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u351	That is possible, but I would be a little short of the complexity of the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Crone. In the course of the evening, there are various initiatives in the room for support groups. I would almost welcome it where it goes beyond group boundaries, but I would like to ask for a moment's rest. It is also a bit disturbing for the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll start with Schumpeter again, but briefly. Schumpeter indeed had the expectation that, on the basis of the developments, all these large companies would now say "multinationals" we would no longer have entrepreneurship, but some kind of administrative managers. He eventually called it a kind of socialism, but now we would say: that is our current social market economy. Maybe there's another time to talk about that. The minister also said that, according to the IPCC, it can never be without coal. Period. That's not right. The IPCC also says: it can be done with coal, if CCS is used for example. That is not insignificant, because I was surprised that the Minister spoke reasonably optimisticly about CCS. The CDA asked for that, too. I thought, "That's another bright spot today," because who knows, that might help. Not necessarily for the coal plants, but for the broad climate policy. But we agree on this point, because I started myself with: without coal we will not make it. So it's all not so bad again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u354	I'd still like to respond to this. When I heard Mr Crone Schumpeter portraying himself as some sort of socialist, I thought for a moment: is it me now? That's not how I remember it. I have just checked: Schumpeter was very opposed to Marxism and he believed that socialism would lead to dictatorship. He was a very antisocialist. I think it is a good thing that you are able to turn that around, but I think Schumpeter is best known for the innovation and creative destruction processes, rather than as a supporter of socialism. But maybe they have a different view at the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u355	It's about my personal opinion. He had two teachings. One was the creative destruction, the economic business cycle. The other was capitalism, socialism and democracy. He was fiercely opposed to communism, and I was also fiercely opposed to communism, because that is top-down. Well, we all know that. Our economy has developed into a kind of social market economy. It's not that raw capitalism of the time he wrote about anymore. He foresaw that. If I leave out some nuances, you can call that social democracy now. But I also think socialism is an honorary title, so you can call it socialism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u356	May I ask you to return to the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u357	Then it's about biomass. I still want to maintain the line that biomass is just stored solar energy. It's purely about the deadlines you're taking to fix it, whether it's in wood or in other biomass. It's about whether the time, when it's burned, is proportional to what your goals are in 2050. So to put it bluntly: if you grow a plant now, which enters the incinerator the day after tomorrow and is free the day after that, then nothing is wrong. And we do it every day. In this respect, we need precisely the PBL to know whether this is to be shown and whether it can be done through labels, etc. But I also share the criticism of course: if you grant too much subsidy, you will get market distortion of prices. That's all fine. But that is why I want to be consistent: I therefore support the Vendrik motion, because it calls for the further steps of the PBL study, but not for a further ban. Because if we already know it's never gonna work out, we shouldn't ask the PBL. Then we'll see. The debate on biomass is very similar to the debate on palm oil, but also to that on rice and bananas. Each time it is a valid discussion: does what you achieve from afar fit our goals? Then there's the economic side. I thank the Minister for his answers on the economic side of the matter. He noted that it was a sector in maturity. I would even go a little further: coal has never turned without a subsidy. They're like windmills, someone used to say. Coal has long been on grant. Now they don't get a grant, but they have to pay ETS. That is not enough to compensate for environmental pollution, but it is a good thing that this is gradually coming to an end. Finally, consistent policies. I welcome Mr Otten and also the Democracy Forum, which said: this is not a reliable government. That reassures me, because if they come into the government, we can continue the current policy for years to come, because we must have consistent policies in this country. The last point concerns Germany and other countries. I welcome the support of others. By the way, Mr Pijlman had already started working together before I mentioned it, and also Mrs Huizinga. The Minister is somewhat hesitant, but I would say just take it with him in the next consultation with Germany and the European Commission and report it if it does not succeed. I am not pessimistic, because all countries face the same problem. At this point it is giving and taking, and Germany is going the other way at another point. I would appreciate a little more enthusiasm from the Minister. Maybe we can still do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u358	Thank you. I call Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have some good news. First of all, I will not complete the five minutes I have registered. Then I recuperate a little, because I was reprimanded in the first term and I don't like reprimands, especially not a valued chairman. A second good point is that I'm not going to talk about Schumpeter, but I'm not going to talk about Von Hayek either. That also saves half an hour of economic deliberations. We'll do that another time or at the drink. Finally, that is a good point: we are not going to table any motions. That's gonna save you a lot of money. But I do have two more questions for the Minister. In Mr Pijlman's view, the owners have withdrawn from the CCS project. In his view, that's a breach of contract. Does the Minister agree? Should the owners return to this decision, the question remains whether this law will become superfluous, because that is the conclusion. I would like to put these two questions to the Minister. In this wonderful month of Advent, with all the light and joy, I consider advising my group positively, but not because we are jauchingly enthusiastic. Firstly, according to the Minister, the money is already fully committed. Hopefully, a third will not be spent. But it's down the drain for two thirds. Secondly, we have heard several times that green is also really green here. We look forward with interest to the information presented from various sides in the first quarter of next year. With Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, we would have liked to wait until that information is available, but if that is not possible in the eyes of the Minister, then that is the opinion I will submit to my group. You will hear the result next week at this time or hopefully a bit earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u360	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. It's "jumping," just for the Acts. There's another interruption for you, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u361	I'll walk back. Luckily, it doesn't go away from my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u362	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u363	That's how you get your time. I have more to say than a question. I have indeed spoken about non-compliance with promises. I didn't talk about breach of contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u364	That's a proper correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u365	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that my advent expectation cannot be linked to whether or not to go into a law. Otherwise, I'm gonna have a problem today. The special thing about this debate was that we got opposite sentences. I was told by the Group of the Party of Animals that the Minister would have said 'without biomass we will not make it', but that the Party for Animals is saying 'with biomass we will not make it'. I was also triggered by about the Minister's first sentence this afternoon. He wasn't talking about biomass at the time, but he just said, "We can't make it with coal." But I'm inclined to say, "Watch out, 'cause maybe we won't make it without coal." In other words, aren't we going too fast? Of course, I asked him about that. The Minister replied clearly that he meant 2050 by the phrase 'with coal we can't make it'. Then I think to myself: aren't we making it extra difficult by looking at 2030 already? In 2030, so 20 years earlier than when we wouldn't make it, we're going to put a stop to coal. Mr. Chairman. We have also talked about the support that is needed, not only in both chambers, but also in the country. Citizens of the Netherlands are eventually presented with the bill of all kinds of percentages. I think citizens are also startled when they hear that we are threatening to export our sustainability problem abroad. I refer to the small debate that we had on this subject in the light of what the Council of State has told us. I thought the Minister was quite honest there too. He said at one point: yes, that that would lead to extra emissions abroad, "that is not necessarily neat." My group does not necessarily consider that to be appropriate. There's a reasonable difference, I think. Mr. Chairman. In fact, the risk that we will help the Netherlands with this law again is so great that my group cannot support this law. Actually, I have one final question. If this law is adopted, is there a situation or a point in time conceivable that we can return to our steps at some point, for example because the international situation is asking for it or because energy needs are becoming so great that we should come to a new choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u367	In Mr Schalk's view, what should be the consequence of his attitude to climate policy? Then where are we going to get that emission reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u368	Yeah, that's a very good question. My answer will be in line with what has been exchanged many times today, namely that there should be a mix of measures. For me, the choice comes too soon to say that we have to stop all coal. The Minister says that if we think we have to sit on 95% reduction by 2050, we are not going to make it with coal anymore. I understand that very well. But if we are the only country to make such an early decision, then I'm afraid we're in trouble. In addition, we have strengthened our problem further, because Europe and most neighbouring countries are ultimately assuming 40% reduction. We have even set our target at 49%, because we have accepted a climate law, including this Chamber, which I did not vote for. That makes it very complicated. And I'm just really worried that we're going to end up in the same situation as we've been through with the construction and with the farmers and so on. People are already sniffing, because they know that somewhere in the law there is a percentage that is likely to be unfeasible. How can that ever be taken back? So that's my problem. I don't know if I answered the question entirely, because Mr. Vendrik also asked about the mix. I would also like to mention a subject such as nuclear power and thorium. I know, of course, that thorium is far ahead of us. But we've been talking about 2030 and 2050 all day, so why not look a little beyond the next five or ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u369	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u370	We are also continuing this debate at another time. It is, after all, relevant to hear from Mr Schalk how his party's position is in this incredibly important debate. He says, "Aren't we early?" I refer to the Secretary-General, who said yesterday that we are almost too late and that we have known this issue for more than 30 years and are not getting anywhere at all. Mr Schalk is now talking about nuclear power. We've been working on that for a long time, and it's okay. But then it is also fair to say that this citizen, as Mr Schalk has just mentioned, is also going to pay for nuclear energy. Without structural subsidies, nuclear energy will not be able to survive in a renewable dominated energy market. Is that the consequence that Mr Schalk wants to draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u371	It is very good that Mr Vendrik emphasizes that. Eventually, the citizens will pay for everything. That's the way it works. Together, we try to settle matters in this country and bring them together. I also realize that this entails enormous costs. But what we are doing now may also entail enormous costs. Of course, we have to make that assessment with each other. If Mr Vendrik meant how the SGP stands throughout the climate debate, I do not think I need to make that clear. You know that we come from a good creation, which is entrusted to us and in which we build and preserve. And we all make different choices about how we want to shape that. My group is concerned about steps that may be irreversible, but which we will be asking ourselves in a few years' time: have we done so in the right way? Actually, I was hoping for a little delay this morning. A few people came by and said, "Shouldn't we postpone a little bit?" However, we have noticed in the course of the debate that this is not really feasible. But that would have been a good option as far as my group is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u372	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u373	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the questions that have been asked. Then I'll come to the motions. I'll start with Mrs Teunissen. I note that it is not easy for me to satisfy Mrs Teunissen. In earlier deadlines, it was deeply concerned about deforestation and concerns about under-planting. In this contribution, she is concerned that forest planting is affecting biodiversity. It must remain as much forest for Mrs Teunissen, with military precision: it must not be less, but it must not be less. In its direction, I can only point out that this proposal concerns the phasing out of coal for electricity generation. I hope that at least I have her sympathy on that point. It's not about other things right now. I will give some thought to how this military standstill of forest areas in the world will then take shape. But we are going to talk about this in the halls. I have also listened to Mrs Faber and Mr Otten. Mr Pijlman asked me once again to go into this coordination. In all honesty, I cannot add much more to that than we are very seriously engaged in that pentalateral context. These TSOs really do their job and the Netherlands and Germany are closely aligned, in all areas, not only on the electricity networks, but also explicitly on hydrogen and also on the CCS infrastructure. It's all about these things. Could it be sooner? That is actually what Mr Vendrik also asked and Mr Pijlman is asking for it now. Yeah, it could be. If ETS is really going to do its job, then of course it will be over at some point. Then there is no such thing as a leak. So it would help enormously, in all kinds of ways. I have heard his call for vigilance on biomass very well. He also asks what we're gonna do with Urgenda. The section on Hemweg contained in this proposal for 2020 is, of course, explicitly aimed at this. There has been no other purpose in bringing it forward than Urgenda. There are many other things to do. I believe that Mr Vendrik asked for it even more precisely. I shall deal with this later. But Hemweg plays a role in relation to this bill. The fact that we would not be involved in thorium at all is not true, because there is state subsidy to NRG, also for nuclear research, indirectly via the lump sum of OCW for TU Delft, which works on the fourth generation nuclear. The Reactor Institute Delft is the coordinator of a European project in this field. So we do all kinds of things about that. A lot of countries do. Of course, we hope for a breakthrough there too. Mr Pijlman also pointed out that the SDE++ had not yet been designed on hydrogen. Now the question is whether hydrogen saves an sich as a medium CO. That is not the case in the immediate sense. It's an energy carrier. A power cable also does not save CO. But even if that had been the case, we still have to deal with a very uneven race, because the whole learning curve is still going on with hydrogen. It is therefore a very uneven competition to allow it to compete with developed techniques on the basis of cost-effectiveness. This is still relatively in its infancy, so that would not be a fair match. It is therefore important that we arrange for hydrogen in a different way. We do this through, among other things, the DEI, the demonstration scheme. That's 40 million a year and it grows to 60 million. That's gonna make half a billion in ten years anyway. There are also research programmes. But we are also working hard on all kinds of conditions, certification, standardisation, safety and a vision of market organisation, because how should we deal with this medium? In all these ways, we're dealing with hydrogen. We now have hundreds of companies in sight that are also planning to do something with hydrogen. In the north I have also spoken a few myself, but also in other parts of the country I will report soon. Something is happening in all kinds of areas. It is now important to select a few really concrete projects as well. On the working arrangements Hemweg I will come back at a later moment. Mr Vendrik asked the most comprehensive question about Urgenda, so I am now answering it most comprehensively. That's what I attribute to his question. We agreed on a package in June. That includes the Hemweg. According to the experts, there was an estimated 3 megaton effect on top of the Hemweg. We decided on a further gear package in November. Then there was another nitrogen package with a speed measure in it. This also soon adds up to CO savings. But we're not done yet. It's clear there's a verdict. I'm committed to that. I have to do everything I can to get it. The perspective is that further nitrogen measures are also needed. They go hand in hand with greenhouse gases to a great extent, because when we talk about ammonia on the nitrogen side, a lot of ammonia measures are synchronised with methane measures. That's a greenhouse gas. NO measures on the nitrogen side often run in parallel with CO reduction. So we have two issues in common, but one set of rules might work for both. So we're just gonna keep going. I never radiated that I felt the verdict served with the middle value. I never said that. I know what I have left to go. I don't suppose I'm gonna stop at midterm either. I know there's still work to be done. I know that a lot is still happening and that all kinds of things will have to roll out of the band step by step. I'm aware of that. I know I'm not ready. I have just said a few words about the North Sea Agreement. Whether Mr Vendrik calls it a growth agenda or a transition agenda, I leave it to him. I think his party wants it to be a transition agenda, but as an economist I can also appeal to sensible growth. I hear him say "wide prosperity." Let me put it this way: if broad prosperity is the best approach to happiness, then it counts, but also our earning ability. In the end, we will also have to be able to pay our pensions and the AOW. Care is getting more and more expensive. The ageing population is on the rise. We have to pay for all this. That should go hand in hand. That hydrogen or specifically the transition should be prominent in the investment fund, let me put it in the middle, because I do so together with my colleague in the finance department. So what we're thinking about will be announcements. I have already stated that it will be prominent in InvestNL's portfolio. I've already reported that in this Chamber. Are the corresponding CO rights withdrawn from the market? Yeah, but not by the Netherlands, because that's what the Market Stability Reserve is for. That mechanism consumes the excess rights itself. So we don't have to buy them anymore. This is a fantastic reform, which has been pushed by the Netherlands to a large extent. Sharon Dijksma deserves all praise for this masterful reform from 2016. More reforms are needed, but this was a very good move from her. I listened carefully to Mr Van Kesteren with his final legal questions. I have not been able to convince Mrs Gerkens in the field of biomass, I hear. But on one point, I do not think she does justice to my argument. I'd like to mention that. I'm aware that I didn't convince her. That is entirely up to me, because it was my intention to convince her as well. But I find the term "wave the doubts away" too thin. I've submitted a serious argument. I didn't rob anything away. She refers to twigs and leaves, but I never mentioned twigs and leaves. I mentioned the residual streams. Let me put it this way. My attempt was more serious than she suggests. I can tell I didn't convince her, but that's something else. How many petajoules do the coal plants give? Only three of them will be left by 2030. I have studied the hypothetical case that in one way or another all three would run with a reasonable number of hours of rotation, say 6,000 or 7,000. That would amount to 80 petajoules. That's it. It doesn't even matter so much on which fuel that is, because the capacity shouldn't be that different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u374	The Minister just referred to the CO effects of the nitrogen package and to possible consequences for the lower emissions of methane, another greenhouse gas. When are we going to see a package from the cabinet with a good assessment of the impact on whether or not to achieve the Urgenda goal? When can we see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u375	The cabinet sees a constant need to come up with measures step by step, over and over again, with both Urgenda and nitrogen in our sights. Both are not even just urgent but almost acute. Those things go hand in hand. Every day we are working very hard in the cabinet to be able to take new steps here. On a virtually continuous basis, we expect to come up with things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u376	Mrs. Gerkens or Mr. Vendrik again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u377	A very easy question, I hope: are we still talking about this month, or are we talking about January or February? It will then be 2020 already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u378	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u379	Time may be running out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u380	I know we're running out of time. The question of timing may sound easy, but let me confess that the answer to the solution is extremely complex. It is my job and that of the other members of the cabinet to maintain both support for major transitions that we are engaged in as wise policies, allowing us to do justice to nitrogen and to a verdict that lies ahead. On a daily basis, I am working on this with colleagues, and there are still many measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u381	I thank the Minister for his personal attention for my input. He says he didn't convince me, and he didn't, that's right. You may not have used the word "twigs," but you did use the word "twigs." You're talking about pruning. We can always find that in the transcript. It was about looking at what's being said here. The Minister says he needs to shut down those coal plants and stop coal. The alternative he sees is biomass, and he does so with the best possible guarantees, which he believes will prevent as much as possible from something going wrong there. Then I say: if the Minister has wanted to tell me, the message has arrived well. He has made that clear, only my concern is that these safeguards will not be enough, because there is a perverse incentive in that subsidy, which will lead to materials that could have been processed in other ways, because that energy is much better for the CO, eventually finding their way to the incinerator more quickly. That's where I'm concerned, and the Minister hasn't been able to take it away. Time will tell who's right. In my heart, I hope it's the minister, but I'm afraid it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u382	Then I'm going to be as economical as one last attempt. That subsidy makes the difference between the residual streams just rot somewhere in the forest or turn it into biomass. It doesn't make the difference between cutting wood or pellets. You can tell by the market prices. The market prices for the raw wood that is then turned into planks or in pellets give about a factor 2. Considering the subsidy situation and the demand of all kinds of countries, including the Netherlands, and considering the sustainability criteria, you can conclude that there is still no incentive for the supplier to turn a tree into pellets rather than shelves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u383	Two things. As I said before, we are not only talking about wood, but there are also other markets or biomass streams where this incentive works. My second point is that these twigs are not just rotting in the woods, but that they have a purpose. If that rots, that feeds the soil, and that's energy too, that's value, that's also important. Removing it will impoverish the ground. There's definitely a risk in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u384	Of course, we continue to talk about production forests. As long as people use wood for homes and furniture, but later no longer for paper, there are production forests and we use the rest of them. I can't do it. I don't think I'm going to convince Mrs Gerkens this evening. I think that's sad, and I'm gonna say it again. Mrs Huizinga asks what we will do with all this knowledge. That's what governments do. They're gonna see what's going on and then they're gonna take action. The government toolbox is pretty spacious. You can formulate standards or mandatory additional sustainability criteria. You can use them for subsidised but also for unsubsidised biomass or for this electricity, but not for that electricity. You have a grant toolbox. We have legislation in all kinds of ways. We'll cross that bridge when we get there. Let's just keep an eye on what's going on first. Then we are ideally on the square kilometer for which we have instruments and we have to use them sometimes. If I understand correctly, she is asking about the potential of gas plants in combination with CCS. Yeah, that's conceivable, of course. That is not profitable at the moment, but it could be. There could also be a possibility of scalable power for peak demand. That way it could be. Then you've got something up your sleeve that's still emission-free. All possibilities are included, because every year we have to consider whether we still think we can provide security of supply. Furthermore, Mrs Huizinga asks whether we should not start with this biomass demand if we close those plants in 2030. I dare to take the stand the other way around. It's still 11 years to go, so those three months don't matter. In three months' time, too, you can still think about what you're doing with those power stations in 11 years' time, or ten years' time. It doesn't hang on that, I guess. Then there is cooperation with neighbouring countries. The ETS does not, of course, relieve us of cooperation with neighbouring countries. I was trying to say that when it comes to the phase-out of coal plants in our neighbors, the ETS would help. In one case, I must convince Mr Altmaier. If I can do that, I'm probably 200 cups of coffee, while it would go quite automatically with an ETS price. Then my colleague Altmaier did not look back at it either. That is what I meant by that remark, but it does not relieve me of any obligation to cooperate with neighbouring countries about much more than coal-fired power stations, as I have just said in reply to Mr Arrowman. If the specialists or the experts see that biomass in one way or another is part of the mix, I also recognise that this does not relieve us of thinking about it permanently. Cascading plays a role there. Sustainability criteria play a role there. We'll have to be alert all the time if the systems to control it still work. We have quite a lot of experience with it in all kinds of government executives, that you have to look again and again at what a possible opponent has come up with for smarts to do what you didn't want to happen. In my opinion, this is sufficiently secured in the Climate Agreement, which Mrs Huizinga's party has so generously embraced in the House of Representatives. Those appointments were made. Then there is Mr Crone's appeal. I tried to say in the first term that I believe that the call has already been made, because I have already spoken about it. I very much appreciate Mr Crone starting with the content. I then appreciate that he has a good idea, but it is still on the sandbank of good ideas, which is political support for something that makes your job disappear in your own country. That's the complication, I think. Mr Van Ballekom announced that he would be very concise, but he was so concise that I simply did not understand his two questions. I have tried to interest the President in my incomprehension, but he was rücksichtslos, because of course it does not fit into the procedure of asking a question about it. I just missed it, with apologies, but the brevity was very overwhelming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u385	At least the Minister is consistent, because he had also missed some questions in the first term. I asked for a response to Mr Pijlman's view that the owners of the power plants have broken their promise and withdrawn from the Carbon Capture and Storage programme. Fine. I was talking about a breakup, but it's a promise. Does the Secretary of State endorse that? Should it be the case that the owners of those plants revert to their decision? Those were my two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u386	I find it complicated to understand completely from this place whether you can speak of a promise, but if so: it was not in a permit at the time that CCS was the condition. The question is whether you can call upon it with retroactive effect. I think we need to work another way. We must arrange for appropriate compensation, and we are doing so in the form of, among other things, a payback period. But I find it complicated to read something that was not included in the permit and which I do not see as a very clear condition, now with retroactive effect as a promise and on that basis say: we do not have to compensate anyone either. I think that the compensation consists of the transitional period and that the case should be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u387	Then the second question remains. If the owners come back to the decision not to use CCS and do not do so, so if they were to say that, considering everything, it might be wise to do so, is this law superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u388	In the meantime, politics has gone further and the government has agreed that we will no longer allow coal as a fuel for electricity production. This means that coal-based electricity production with CCS is now politically obsolete; it is a bypassed station.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u389	On that point, industry's commitment should have been mutual. You say it wasn't in the license. That's right. So the government could have arranged it only if there was CCS. But the companies did not say: we build only if the government contributes or whatever to CCS; if it does not, then the government has to pay compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u390	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u391	Of course, they could have asked. They would have had a point by now. But they deliberately took the risk. I pointed that out in the first place, but you did not respond. They deliberately took the risk: a low CO price, perhaps even an exemption, which was the subject of discussion in Germany at the time. Then you have to sit on the blisters, because then it's an assessment. But it wasn't a mutual contractual obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u392	Let me put it this way. What ministers, predecessors of mine, have all wanted, ultimately invests on their own account, risk and accountability. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u393	Also on CCS, in response to Mr Pijlman's comments. I just figured it out: there was no obligation. The Minister agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u394	That wasn't in the license.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u395	No. But what happens if you set up that program and start this law at the same time? I've said it before: reflexivity. People react to policies and then draw their own conclusions. If there is a law banning coal from electricity production, such an investor will not, of course, invest tens of millions more in CCS because he knows that law is coming. That's exactly the point I've been trying to make all night. The government introduces political risks through this legislation, which in turn lead to people saying: then I am not going to invest in that CCS. That was an indirect question in response to Mr Pijlman's comment, and it is also in line with what was just discussed before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u396	The decision whether or not to invest in CCS dates back to the time when the government agreement stated that coal should not be allowed to continue as fuel, so I do not see that dependence. I would like to acknowledge that the adoption of laws that significantly affect a private entrepreneur's business plan is not necessarily good news for trust in public authorities, but at the same time a lot of companies ultimately benefit from being a country in which sustainable business can be done in a sensible way, with all the infrastructure involved. So that is the other side of this government: unlike elsewhere, this government also ensures that the transition by industry is subject to subsidies and that infrastructure is actively worked on. That's the other side of this case. But with that, I'm not denying the point that has just been made. Finally, Mr Schalk. For the second time, I must express my sadness that I have not been able to convince Mr Schalk. He says we can't make it without coal; at least that's what he's afraid of. I think the Planning Office for the Environment has rejected that, but I have not managed to convey it to Mr Schalk. Let me give a technical answer to his question as to whether we can return to our steps. Parliaments are about laws, but that does not make the government more consistent, more reliable according to Mr Otten and not less mobile according to Mr Van Kesteren. Democracys can do that, but I do not argue for that. Then we'll get to the motions. I shall begin with the motion on letter G, in which the government is asked to investigate... Et cetera, et cetera. This is very wide. It is also about local pruning wood and truly sustainable pellets, even if there is no cut-off. In the light of the discussion, I would advise against the motion to letter G. The motion on letter H was a brain breaker for a moment, because what is meant by "in practice" and "in balance"? If I read 'totally' as biomass works, there would be little against this motion, because actually sustainable biomass has much less emissions on balance than coal, I believe. But I know that the intention and interpretation of the proposers are so different that I will speak to them most honestly if I advise against the motion, because then I would have advised her against the real purpose and interpretation of this motion, and then I would not have done anything legalistic torturing. That's what I'm trying to avoid. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u397	I think the Minister can take this motion quite literally, so I'm very curious how he interprets my thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u398	I have heard several times in the debate that emissions from biomass plants are seen as emissions from the chimney rather than net emissions from the chain. That is an interpretation that many here give. I do not want to go into legal semantics, but that is the interpretation given by the authors of this motion. Based on that interpretation, my reaction is: dissuade. If the interpretation had been mine, it would have been policy support, but that is not what the proposers mean, and I must be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u399	Clear. Then I know what the Minister means. It is true, as I say as the author, that we are talking about real CO emissions and not about what they should be on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u400	I don't think this is about paper versus reality. I think this is about measuring the chimney or measuring the whole chain. This is not a question of definition on paper. It is something that I think is actually physical, but measured over the whole chain rather than just on the chimney. That's the last of it. Then I have the motion on letter I. It says that... I think this is up to the Chamber itself. I have judgments on that, but they're not asked of me here. Then the motion to letter J. It's going really fast. It is about all forms of biomass, which we then put into a moratorium. I don't think that's a good idea. I explained this in the debate. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u401	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of the second term. I'll take a look around the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-eerstekamer-9.u402	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote next week on the bill and the motions tabled.
