ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35180, adoption of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, established in Brussels on 6 February 2019. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr Beukker. He's gonna make his maiden speech, so I'm gonna ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr President, I too would like to congratulate all those who have made their maiden speech today, but especially my congratulations to you, for your first day as President. Mr. Chairman. For almost 40 years I have served in the armed forces and thus also belong to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation: an important organisation that has provided 70 years of peace in our beautiful country. NATO is used not only in physical threats or crises, such as natural disasters, refugees or terrorism, but also in the event of disruption of society, such as cyber attacks. Unfortunately, over the past three decades, we have systematically and seriously neglected our contribution to this strong collective security system. In a shameful way, the peace dividend has been collected in the Netherlands and we have become a freerider, or, to put it in good Dutch: a bummer. Billions have been cut in an ill-thought-out way, and now we're stuck with the fried pears. The President of the main ally within this alliance regularly urges us to respect the mutual and joint agreements and promises made, which are constantly not being kept. Even in this cabinet period, when you talk about the percentage of gross national product, we go down to the 25th place. The alliance has been under enormous political pressure for years and the situation in and with Turkey and Syria certainly does not make things easier. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands spends too little structuralally on Defence and thus on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Last week a motion was discussed in this Chamber about the large amount of money going to counter-productive biomass plants. Why doesn't that money go to the D.O.D.? Mr. Chairman. My party, Forum for Democracy, is in favour of a strong, innovative and effective Defence Organisation and NATO with force. What does the Minister think of the proposal to use the 11.5 billion grant, which is now going to biomass plants, to implement the promised 2% of gross national product and thus to spend on Defence? Now I am going to the accession of North Macedonia to NATO. The Forum is not clear what this contributes to the necessary strengthening and improvement of NATO. Does this not make decision-making unnecessarily difficult? What is the need and urgency of this? What is the added value? And how is this perceived in the region? In addition, the Forum for Democracy is also very interested in the Minister's explanation of the discrepancy between this intention and the accession of North Macedonia to the European Union, which the government is still opposed to. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Our collective security is too important not to be clear, clear and consistent about this. NATO has a clear added value for the whole of society and protects what is dear to us. As a rich country, we will have to make our agreed contribution to this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you. Just for the record, the Minister only has to respond to matters relating to the legislative proposal, but of course he is free to talk about other matters as well. Dear Mr Beuker, my heartfelt congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. As you said, after high school, you went to the Royal Military Academy in Breda, where you attended business economic training. You also did the officer training at the Higher Military School and studied public administration at the University of Leiden. Internationally you have the master's programme Strategy and Business Affairs at the Collège interarmées de Défense in Paris. At the United Nations in New York, you took a Senior Mission Leadership Course. Within the Royal Army you have been Commander 200 Supply and Transport Battalion, liaison officer French Joint Planning Staff and Commander Training and Training Centre Driving. You were a consultant at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and worked as a company group commander at the Ministry of Defence. Your last post before you waved off in 2016 as a professional military officer with the rank of Brig. Gen. O'Neill was assistant chief of staff International Military Cooperation. For three years, you have owned Beuker Leadership Consultancy. You provide advice on leadership, culture and change management. On 28 March this year you were sworn in as a member of the Provincial States of South Holland on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Since 11 June, you have been a member of the First Chamber. Even before your swearing-in as a senator, you spoke of yourself by awarding you the presidency of this Chamber. I don't want you keeping your maiden speech on this bill to be a surprise. It fits in with your great experience in peacekeeping operations in Africa. In Burundi, where there was still a lot of tension in 2003, despite the truce, you came up with Camp Espoir. Hutu's and Tutsi's followed a six-week program together under the motto of armed integration: they were allowed to bring their weapons. There's never been anything like this before. But it worked. It is estimated that 10,000 Burundians have followed the program without any armed incident. Your knowledge of the practice is a valuable contribution to the work of this Chamber. A warm welcome to you again. I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment so that the other Members can congratulate you. I would like to congratulate you as chairman first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u5	I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. My group wanted to deal with the legislative proposal before us, which might otherwise have become a hammer piece, in plenary because what is proposed here is a far-reaching treaty obligation. In fact, on the basis of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, this is the most far-reaching commitment you can make, namely to assist another country in military terms. We simply do not think it is appropriate for you to allow such a thing to pass this Chamber silently. My group believes that you should think about it three times before making such an obligation. In this respect, we are pleased that we were finally joined by the Democracy Forum in the debate. I would also like to publicly congratulate Mr Beuker on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. My group has serious reservations about this proposal for ratification of the agreement on the accession of North Macedonia to NATO. Let me say first of all that North Macedonia is, of course, free to join NATO, and that we also recognise that this desire is widespread among the Macedonian population. In this sense, the country has the right, also on the basis of the NATO Treaty, to try to achieve this wish. But no country can claim membership. Just as we recognise the right of Northern Macedonia to stand for membership of NATO, my group assumes that the government and parliament of that country and any other Member State have the right to reject this candidacy under the present treaty. Just to be sure, I'd like to ask the Minister if he agrees with me. Now, given our right to make our own assessment of whether or not we want to enter into this very far-reaching treaty obligation with North Macedonia, my question is what exactly is the reason why we should want to do so. North Macedonia is a small inner state with 2 million inhabitants and last year had a military budget of 108 million US dollars, about one hundredth of what our country spends on defence. The government's desire to allow North Macedonia to join cannot therefore be motivated by the great military contribution we can expect from this country. With such a small army, the contribution to our security or to that of the alliance in general is ultimately negligible. Does the Minister agree with me? The government points out the Macedonian contribution of 47 soldiers to NATO intervention in Afghanistan. Apart from the fact that my group believes that the money-consuming and many life-consuming war in Afghanistan, which has now entered the nineteenth year, has gone on for far too long and that NATO should not be part of this war, cannot that be a decisive argument? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the government really has to come up with better arguments. Because what essential contributions can North Macedonia make to our security? We don't see it. But more importantly, how does this outweigh the disadvantages and potential risks? Because, according to my group, there are. The government is far too easy to ignore this. What would happen if things really got out of hand in the Balkans and Macedonia called on Article 5? Are we going to war in defence of NATO's extended territory? Is that what we're supposed to want? Would it not be much better to focus on conflict prevention in this region and, in the event of an unexpected violation of Macedonian territorial integrity, to make this a matter for the UN Security Council and, if necessary, to use the non-military instruments available to us and other countries? I'd like a response from the Minister. What if the internal development of the young democratic Republic of North Macedonia is moving in the wrong direction? The NATO Treaty states that Member States are supposed to guarantee the freedom of their peoples based on the principles of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. But membership of NATO does not in any way guarantee that countries comply with this. Unfortunately, the case of Turkey makes it painfully clear. Even after the illegal invasion of Turkey, we are empty-handed within the alliance. For the Treaty provides neither for sanctions nor for the possibility, as an ultimatum remedium, of expelling a country which no longer acts in accordance with the Convention. According to some international scholars, in the case of a so-called material violation of the Convention, this could in principle be done by means of the detour of Article 60 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister clarify this for us? What are the possibilities of the other Member States if a Member State violates the letter and the spirit of the Treaty and seriously harms the interests of the other Member States? And if these possibilities are indeed very limited, does not the motto 'think before you begin' apply? What if North Macedonia does not progress towards a stable democracy and the rule of law, as we now hope? What if, in future, the country moves away from that democracy and respect for human rights? What about human rights and the rule of law in northern Macedonia? In answering our questions about this, the government claims that much progress has been made in these areas, but also that these reforms need to be further implemented and that the government is monitoring developments closely. But can the government, if it were to be a member of NATO in the near future, do anything other than 'follow' these developments? Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that, on the basis of my considerations so far, there is enough reason to at least have doubts as to whether the benefits, to the extent that they already exist, of the accession of northern Macedonia outweigh the disadvantages and potential risks. One risk I have not yet identified. This risk lies in the possible geopolitical consequences of a further expansion of NATO. The American Newsweek described Macedonia as a "key battleground between Russia and the West," or a so far "happily yet" figurative battlefield in what is widely regarded as the exciting battle between Russia and the West. That is how Putin sees it and so does NATO. But are we supposed to want this? The expected accession of North Macedonia is seen as a painful loss for Russia, and so NATO would have struck its re-invented opponent again with a sensitive blow. Is it sometimes a question of NATO, my group asks. Is this the real reason why this government, too, wants the extension of NATO with the further militaryly rather thin Macedonia so much? I'd like a response from the Minister. But whether this is the reason or not, I think it would be wise to consider the risks and potential costs here as well. It is a fact that tensions with Russia have already increased enormously in recent years. Do we really want to continue along this path towards a new cold war with our European neighbours? And no, as far as the SP is concerned, Russia certainly does not have a veto on which countries join NATO. But you have to dare to make a real assessment of the consequences, and then ask yourself if you think it's worth that price. Mr. Chairman. My group therefore wonders whether we, and whether this government, have learned enough from the past. Unfortunately, the warning given by Frits Bolkestein 24 years ago that the eastward expansion of NATO after the Cold War would damage the stability of Europe, also by its own party and the then government, has been completely in the wind. But I ask the Minister: didn't the then VVD party leader just get right? Or is it a taboo for this minister to look back and learn lessons? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to comment on the international geopolitical situation and its implications for NATO. I have already referred to Turkey, which does not act as an ally but acts as an aggressor. In the world of Trump and Erdogan, geopolitical turbulence and uncertainty are not only rapidly increasing, but are also at the heart of NATO itself. Some say that even the survival of the alliance is at stake. My group also wonders what kind of alliance this is, in which one country starts an illegal invasion, directed against the ally of another country, but then the President of that other country does not seem to be really awake. "NATO weapons against NATO weapons" was the summary of former Secretary-General De Hoop Scheffer. However, while NATO is eroding from within in this way, this government remains committed to shifting its geographical boundaries. I ask the Minister: would it not be better for NATO, as for the EU, to put internal order before making the club even bigger? Would it not be a good idea to think about what it means that if a Member State behaves badly, then there is no sanction mechanism in the Treaty? This seems to my group to be extremely urgent in the light of recent developments. How does the Minister view this? And is it not time for a fundamental rethink of what NATO's core task is and how it can best be fulfilled? I'd like a response from the Minister. As far as the SP Group is concerned, the only core task of NATO is to defend the NATO territory within the framework of the UN Charter. And is it not time, especially when NATO is so wretched, to reflect on a new global security architecture, as my group chairman suggested last week in the General Political Reviews? In any case, that seems much better to us than to continue on the path of rash enlargement. I doubt whether the Minister is really open to our alternative view, but, as always, I look forward to his answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you. Is there another member who would like to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then the question to the Minister: are you able to respond directly to the questions that have been asked? That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by warmly congratulating Mr Beuker on his maiden speech. I too am looking forward, not only to the debate we are having today, but also to the debates that we will undoubtedly have in the future, given Mr Beuker's extensive experience. Both gentlemen began by asking why the extension of NATO to Macedonia is now important and supported by the government. First of all, let me stress that I think it is a good thing that a country, located in Europe, can make the choice of which international organisations it wants to be a member. It is indeed supported by the majority of the population, Mr Van Apeldoorn pointed that out. NATO, as an international organisation and according to the government's belief as an essential cornerstone of Dutch security policy, has made it clear in the past that there is an open door policy: countries within Europe, which meet the criteria of democratic rule of law and which can contribute to security, are welcome. A country and a population now say: "We want to join your organisation. We have taken steps in the areas that you consider important, namely democracy and the rule of law." It would be contrary to the promise made at the time of this open-door policy and would actually be unreliable towards such a country to say now: well, on second thought, that commitment does not apply to you. I agreed with an important part of Mr Beuker's speech when he mentioned the importance of NATO for peace and security throughout the post-war period. But in my view this leads to the conclusion that we cannot say no to a country that also wants to participate in the prosperity, peace and security offered by the Netherlands. We cannot say no to a country that can be proven to meet the criteria. I hope that Mr Beuker, from his own point of view, while stressing the importance of NATO, will agree with me in my view that we should also include other countries that meet the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u9	I am, of course, familiar with NATO's open-door policy. As far as my group is concerned, there should also be a possibility of moving forward. That open door policy would not necessarily have to be maintained forever. I understand that the Minister is holding on to this, but can he mention names of other countries that might in future be invited to join NATO on the basis of the same open-door policy, because they are European countries and meet the conditions? Or is this it? Where does the trial end? What are the limits of that process, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u10	Unlike Mr Van Apeldoorn, I believe that we should not suddenly change the open door policy. I think that is very far-reaching. Before I look into the future, what I'm going to do, I'd like to look back. It is important that a number of neighbouring countries of northern Macedonia have already been able to make that accession step. Montenegro is a member, and Croatia is a member. It is remarkable that North Macedonia is only now taking that step, but this has to do with the fact that the name issue with neighbouring country and NATO Member State Greece has not yet been resolved. The consistent signal about the open door policy, which had already been translated into action for Montenegro and Croatia, and indeed Albania, through their NATO membership, does mean that you have an extra responsibility when you say to neighbouring northern Macedonia: you do not. Then there are other candidate countries. To this end, the open door policy still applies, but also that they must meet the criteria of the rule of law, democracy and contribute to the security of NATO as a whole. When it comes to joining NATO or the EU, the Dutch line is always in place: we want to see proof that sufficient steps have been taken before that possibility exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u11	Does that open-door policy also apply to Georgia and Ukraine, provided that they meet the conditions as formulated by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u12	Certainly, that commitment was made at the time in Bucharest. At the time, these countries were also affected: the open door policy applies to you, including the criteria. The criteria must first be met. In short, I believe that the accession of North Macedonia to NATO is part of the commitments made and, in response to questions from Mr Beuker and Mr Van Apeldoorn, is in the Dutch interest. When a country takes the steps we demand to join an international organisation, it contributes to an international order based on working international organisations and international agreements. The Netherlands has traditionally and in the complicated world in which we now live more than ever need effective international organisations, in the field of security, such as NATO, and in other areas in the form of the United Nations, the European Union, and the World Trade Organisation. This includes the fact that the Netherlands always shows that it is reliable and honours commitments made.You may also be strict about this, but in the case of North Macedonia, the outcome of being reliable and strict and the application for NATO membership to the firm conviction of the Netherlands is: you are part of it. For example, we show that if a country in a indeed complicated region takes a clear step in the right direction, it qualifies for NATO membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. What surprises me is that the word "reliability" is used by the Minister. That is essential in this organization. Does the Minister agree with me that we do not show this, our reliability, by systematically spending too little on defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u14	That is a question that Mr Beuker has indeed asked. It was still on my answering list. He knows that the government is committed to the Wales agreement, which means that each country, including the Netherlands, is working towards the 2% NATO target. In this context, this cabinet has made additional funds available for NATO, for Defence, both during the government agreement and last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u15	The fact that extra money seems to have been released is relative. It is about: what is the percentage of gross national product? We're going down this cabinet period again. That's really worrying. We made a promise, exactly what the Minister says, but we can't outrun that 1.5%. We're swinging around 1.3%. However, we promise that we will go to 2%. That is not a consistent policy. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u16	I agree with Mr Beuker that the Netherlands does not meet the 2%. The Netherlands has committed itself to this in Wales. That is why the Netherlands has taken a number of steps in that direction. In fact, Mr Beuker is right that we are not yet achieving 2%, so that is a follow-up to the next cabinet, with undoubtedly difficult financial choices that go with it. I do not see the link between the fact that we are not yet at 2% and then say to a country that wants to become a member of NATO and meets the criteria set out above: you cannot become a member, because we are not yet at 2%. That would be a very unfair argument towards that country, because that country cannot do anything about our 2%. That country could only say: if you manage your own problems, you will have no argument to stop us. Both Mr Beuker and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the perception in the region. I have already indicated that part of the region is NATO member, a number of neighbouring countries, and that the agreement between northern Macedonia and Greece and, moreover, an earlier agreement between Bulgaria and northern Macedonia, is an acknowledgement of these two neighbours that they want this problem to be resolved. This will pave the way for NATO membership. This aid from the region comes along the way of the two agreements. Mr Beuker asked about the consequences for NATO's decision-making. NATO goes from 29 to 30 members. The decision-making process in international organisations requiring unanimity is generally a complex one for NATO to be a general one. At the same time, it is difficult to maintain that an organisation of 30 members is much more complex than an organisation of 29 members. It is something that certainly does not outweigh the great benefits I have just outlined of meeting your commitments and contributing to stability in a rather complex region. Mr Beuker also asked about the relationship with EU accessions. There isn't one. In any case, there are EU members who are members of NATO or not. The other way around: there are NATO members in Europe who are not members of the EU. There are also countries that are in the process or hope to become EU Member States, without this being directly linked to NATO membership. I mentioned the example of Albania, which is already a member of NATO, but of which the Netherlands indicated when discussing the start of negotiations: we believe that Albania is even further away than northern Macedonia. But it's still NATO member. This is a very concrete illustration that the Netherlands and with us France and Denmark keep these matters completely separate. Once again, on North Macedonia and EU membership, that is a separate path in itself, but I am willing to explain that. As far as North Macedonia is concerned, the Dutch Government has always indicated that we are grateful for the progress that has been made, particularly in the area of the rule of law and the fight against corruption. Unlike Albania, we in the Netherlands would see the scope for North Macedonia to start accession negotiations with the EU, provided that the law on the independent prosecutor has also been adopted. We really see that on its own merits and independently of EU membership. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked for confirmation of the question whether the Netherlands could say no. Technically, that is the case, but I already indicated to you that I do not think it is in the Dutch interest, nor is it reliable against the backdrop of the open door policy, which has also been promised by the Netherlands, and the fact that North Macedonia has fulfilled the criteria attached to it. Mr Van Apeldoorn is, of course, right to say that the size of Macedonia as a country, and hence the size of the Macedonian armed forces, is limited. At the same time, North Macedonia has shown in recent years that, despite its limited size, it was willing to participate in heavy missions, for example in Afghanistan, but of course in proportion to the size of the armed forces. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked what would happen if Article 5, the assistance clause, were to come into force, for example because of a conflict in the Balkans. This question would also arise for the Balkan countries already in the Member States. An appeal to Article 5 is then addressed in the NATO Council, which decides unanimously. It will then be considered whether there is a conflict between two countries which should be resolved at the negotiating table and which is really not of the nature for which NATO was set up, or whether there is a justified appeal to Article 5. That procedure already exists. The question is relevant for each Member State, including for all existing Member States in NATO. For me, that is not an argument to say to North Macedonia now: you should not join. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked: what happens if North Macedonia drifts away in the future? Then the Netherlands will use all the instruments to try to bring North Macedonia back on the path of democracy and the rule of law, first and foremost in the interest of the Macedonian people themselves, but also in the interest, also for ourselves, of a stable Balkans. We will use all the instruments for this, both bilaterally I visited North Macedonia myself last year, and I also have regular contact with my colleague there, as well as through international organisations. The fact that we are then a joint member of NATO provides an additional channel to say, together with other countries, namely NATO Member States, which I know they will agree with us in these areas, to co-NATO Member State North Macedonia: we believe that it follows from your membership that you are moving in the right direction. Are there any additional sanctioning instruments? They are not there, because they do not know the NATO Treaty. That is indeed part of the discussion with Turkey. It is good to think about this possibility, but I do not think that this is a reason to say to North Macedonia: because such a process of thinking is being started, you should not become a member yet. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked about consequences for the relationship with the Russian Federation. He did stress, and I very much agree with him, that the Russian Federation should not be given an implicit right of veto. It is absolutely clear that NATO has no aggressive intentions towards Russia or any other country. NATO has had enlargements a long time ago. They never led to aggression towards the Russian Federation. I have also observed that it has been explained in this way, but you cannot actually say that NATO has taken aggressive action towards the Russian Federation. In fact, you can also see that North Macedonia is not bordering on the Russian Federation. It is in the middle of an area surrounded by NATO Member States, so the reasoning does not go geographically either. I cannot think of any reason why you would deny the sovereign Member State of North Macedonia the right to complete its own wish, NATO membership, just because the Russian Federation has expressed itself negatively in the past. I know it is not Mr Van Apeldoorn's wish to suggest that Russia gets a right of veto, but as soon as you join the game, you will join the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u17	Mr Van Apeldoorn, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u18	Again, it's not about denying the right to Northern Macedonia. It is about whether the government is also willing and able to weigh up costs and benefits, the benefits of North Macedonian membership of NATO and risks. One of the risks, which I mentioned in my speech, is the possible increase in tension with Russia. The question is whether the Minister sees this, also reflecting on the effects of enlargement in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u19	I'll get to that in a minute. I have been very explicit about the merits of enlargement itself. I have indicated to you that I believe this is in the interests of the Netherlands and in the interests of stability in the region. I have also made it quite explicit to you that NATO could not, at any time, be accused of aggression towards the Russian Federation. This enlargement is also taking place in a country that is not even bordering the Russian Federation. I have also indicated that the Russian Federation has indeed expressed reservations. If you go along with that, even though Mr Van Apeldoorn fortunately says to me that we should not give the Russian Federation a right of veto, you are implicitly going along in a line of reasoning that I do not want to go along with. Northern Macedonia, as a sovereign country, can decide for itself which international organisations it wants to join. The review of NATO's expansion. I know that Mr Bolkestein has spoken critically about this, but I think it is quite right that we should also open an organisation of democratic constitutional states, which has made such an important contribution to stability and peace in Europe, including for the Netherlands, to countries in a similar position. We are not just saying: we are so well together and you are not welcome. I find that morally incorrect. I don't think that's in our best interest either. With regard to the Turkish invasion in Northern Syria...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u20	Mr Van Apeldoorn would like to put a question in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u21	This was a very brief answer to my question as to whether the Minister would also like to learn lessons from the past. He keeps repeating that we should not deny Macedonia the right to join NATO. My question is once again: should we be in favour of the enlargement of NATO, regardless of the geopolitical consequences? When we look back at the past, it is not the least people who, in retrospect at least, have developed certain insights about it. I referred to Frits Bolkestein, who warned about it at the time. Former Secretary-General of NATO De Hoop Scheffer also said in an interview with Nieuwsuur, and that is his understanding afterwards, that the expansion of NATO has contributed to Russia's more assertive foreign policy and to Putin's "clearer demarcation of what he considers to be his territory." In that case, at least in the opinion of a former Secretary-General of NATO, there have been real consequences of this enlargement. He specifically mentioned the promise to Ukraine and Georgia. My question is simply whether the Minister is now prepared to weigh those consequences. Does he say: yes, but Mr De Hoop Scheffer sees it wrong? Or does he say: regardless of the consequences, we do not want to undermine the right of European countries that meet the criteria for joining NATO, and do we stick to the open door policy? Are these consequences or are they not weighted by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u22	Referring to Mr Bolkestein's statement, but you can also rightly refer to Mr De Hoop Scheffer's statements, I have just made it quite clear that I am still aware of their statements and developments over the last few years, that it is true that the Netherlands and the other NATO Member States have not said 'we are so well together. As democratic states of the law, we have been able to live in peace and security throughout the post-war period, and that's how we keep it between ourselves and beyond, and you'll find out." I hope to have made it quite clear that I think that is morally incorrect. And I have also made it very clear that I do not think that is in Dutch interest either. Whether it is the first series of accessions of the Baltic States, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria, or the subsequent accessions of the Balkans, it is true that an unstable, chaotic eastern flank of Europe is not in our interest. That is why we have put a lot of energy into that in the past. I was in Serbia yesterday. Quite a complicated neighbor, but I am going to visit it anyway, to keep that line open, just as I have visited Northern Macedonia and Albania over the past year, with the message they did not like so much about EU membership and on the other hand with the message: you are our neighbours and it is in our interest that you are doing well. So both by the moral judgment that I give to other countries what we have, and along the line of self-interest of stability, I come to the same conclusion: enlargement of NATO was sensible and morally correct and is still sensible when a country meets the criteria we have set for it. That goes for North Macedonia. Mr Van Apeldoorn responded to the Turkish invasion. There was, of course, extensive debate in the House of Representatives. Mr Van Apeldoorn knows that the Dutch Government has condemned this raid and has frozen the supply of arms with other EU countries. Both within NATO and bilaterally, we have made it very clear how intricately we think it is. Furthermore, I cannot blame Northern Macedonia for the Turkish Government's decisions which we do not agree with. Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked: are alternative structures needed, or is Article 60 of Treaty law an option? Of course, the government notes the pressure on international organisations and the pressure on peace and security throughout the world, but possibly also in Europe. This means that we must use all possible instruments. This always means international cooperation for the Netherlands: the use of international law and international organisations and the formation of coalitions, in order to achieve peace and stability. That includes this extension of NATO, and that includes every instrument we can use. Those are bilateral contacts. It applies to the defence effort through NATO. It applies to arms control and nuclear disarmament, in which the Netherlands plays a very prominent role, and it applies to the deployment of the United Nations, although, unfortunately, we note that the UN Security Council uses the veto instrument so often or is threatened with it so often that it is particularly difficult to make agreements with it. But it is precisely in a time of instability within and outside Europe that it is important, where a country wants to join an important treaty organisation and has taken the essential steps to do so, to give that country the opportunity to do so in line with the commitment made. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u23	Thank you. We now come to the second term of the Chamber. Mr Beuker does not need a second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I thank the Minister for his reply. I note that in the question of what his main consideration is to allow North Macedonia to join NATO, his main argument is that we have standing policy, the open door policy, we have been promised and we would be unreliable if we did not keep the promise. If I ask what is the essential contribution that North Macedonia would make to our security and the security of the current alliance, I will not get a clear answer to that, other than referring again to the mission in Afghanistan. My group is fundamentally opposed to this, but that mission too is ultimately a small one. It seems to me that this cannot be a decisive argument. Frankly, I was shocked by the Minister's answer to my question as to whether the open door policy also applies fully to Georgia and Ukraine. I note that this Minister believes that the open door policy should also apply to those countries and that this clearly does not outweigh the possible geopolitical consequences. I would ask the Minister if he could comment on what he thinks could be the geopolitical consequences of the accession of these two countries, Ukraine and Georgia. Is he aware, for example, of the criticism that came later on of NATO's promise in 2008? Also former Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer I referred to him earlier in response to Mr Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, who said that that promise was a mistake. Then the Minister can say that we have to be reliable et cetera, but I am now charging you if that reliability leads, in a manner of speaking, to a Third World War or a major international conflict, you have to ask yourself whether you should want it. Reliability or promises made are important, but you can also say that in 2008 we made that promise, perhaps under pressure from the Americans at the time, but that should not have happened and we will come back to it. It seems to be true for the Minister, Mr Macedonia, and in general Mr Macedonia, that we are either increasing the risks of buying or not weighing them. The point is that we insist on the right of those countries to join NATO. Finally, the debate on the possibility of sanctions not provided for by the present Treaty. The current treaty does not provide for a country to be suspended or expelled from NATO. The Minister says that this discussion is now taking place in connection with the case of Turkey and that we must wait for that discussion to take place. He says they're talking about it. It is perhaps a good thing that this is being discussed, but I would like to ask the Minister if he can give us a hint of the veil. What is he thinking about in terms of possibilities? Is Article 60 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties not already possible? How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u25	Thank you. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn did me a little short by saying that my only basis is 'promised'. I have stated in detail that I think it is moral that the Netherlands and other NATO countries should be open to other countries in order to participate to the same degree in security, democracy and the rule of law as other countries. I said that once and again. I have also said once again that it is in the Dutch interest and in the European interest that there should be stability. Really one-and-again said. And indeed: pacta sunt servanda. The same applies in the First Chamber. Of course, you will see whether countries meet the criteria. One of the NATO criteria, also one of the criteria of the open door policy, is to contribute to security, in addition to building democracy and the rule of law. Every new country, you mentioned Georgia, and Ukraine, on all these criteria, will have to show that it meets it and if it does not, not. I really am not going to anticipate what that means at that time for the relationship with anyone, because I do not know at what point that is and I do not know how the Russian Federation is being controlled at that time and looking at such a step. But I do think that the agreement in Bucharest with the two criteria cannot be simply reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u27	Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u28	I apologize to the Minister if he feels inadequate because of my summary that it was mainly about "promised." Perhaps that was because I find the other arguments unconvincing. I can now hear the Minister say again: it is a matter of granting other countries whatever we grant ourselves. He then talks about democracy and the rule of law. The question then is whether NATO is now the instrument to guarantee this. Do we need NATO for that? Is NATO not a military alliance to defend the common territory? If you look at Turkey, you will see that NATO offers no guarantee of maintaining that democracy and the rule of law. So why exactly is that the argument? Secondly, the Minister is always talking about stabilisation. There too, I wonder: is NATO in favour of stabilising regions and is it the appropriate instrument for this? As far as my group is concerned, the expansion of NATO after the Cold War has led to destabilisation and unnecessarily increasing tensions with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u29	Is NATO the instrument for democracy and the rule of law? NATO's founding act says that we are an alliance of democratic constitutional states. I think that is very important, very important. Because, after that opening sentence, if you were to say 'but not accessible to other democratic states of the law', that would be quite a signal. This could also lead to such a country saying: yes, if we are not allowed to join the club, then we are looking for another club that does not respect democracy and the rule of law. There are alternatives, including for Balkan countries. This is then bad for the people of northern Macedonia. That's why I think it's morally right to do this. I also think it is bad for our safety. There could then just be soldiers from another country, not a democratic rule of law, going to North Macedonia. That is not in the interests of North Macedonia and not in the interests of the Netherlands. Is NATO on its own successful in this? For the vast majority of countries, yes. It is true that this is true for some Members of this House, and Turkey is, of course, an example rather than the way we want it to be. But that cannot lead us to the conclusion that, in a world where international cooperation is already under such pressure and democracy and the rule of law are already under such pressure, we are throwing away such an instrument because it does not work. That's throwing your hands in the air: it's not going in the right direction everywhere, let's not do anything anymore. Once again, in most of the NATO countries, things are moving in the right direction. I think the reasoning is the other way around: let us use every instrument to make what is an essential foundation for our Dutch society, democracy and the rule of law, possible in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u30	Does the Minister agree with me that the promises made in 2008, in particular to Georgia and Ukraine, have had enormous disastrous consequences for foreign countries in the future? After that, Russia has ensured that these countries will no longer be able to meet the criteria in the coming decades because they have come into conflict. All this came about after the promise that they would be allowed to join NATO. Isn't the Minister afraid that something like this is going to happen in northern Macedonia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u31	I find this a very difficult argument of geopolitical inheritance sin. Mr Beuker now says that, because open door policy has been formulated in Bucharest, also for Georgia and Ukraine, it is logical in some sense that Russia has done what it has done. That's how I understand him. There has been a war with Georgia, Crimea has been annexed, all in violation of international law. There's no reason to think of anything. Russia played a very invigorating role in East Ukraine, where many Dutch people had to pay for their lives by shooting down the MH17. I cannot follow the reasoning that the fact that an international organisation says 'you are welcome if you meet the criteria' would give another country, in this case the Russian Federation, the right to violate international law. That is also a reasoning that we should follow even further!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u32	Mr. Beuker, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u33	That is certainly not what I said. I am not saying that I am giving Russia the right to do something so reprehensible, but it is a fact that an action reaction is being played from their point of view. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation has promised an extension to Ukraine and Georgia, not really European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u34	Action is reaction, so we must also think very carefully about what we say and do when this reaction is a violation of international law. There are no grounds for violating international law, certainly not opening up an international organisation to other countries. I find the reasoning really very, very fragile. Mr Van Apeldoorn once again asked for a response to Mr De Hoop Scheffer's criticism. I have already indicated to you that I do think it is quite right that the Netherlands and NATO, after the fall of the Wall, should remember this weekend that 30 years ago, we said very clearly: 'You are welcome if you meet the criteria. We want to support you in this, whether it is NATO membership or, for those countries that have that aspiration, in EU membership. You have to qualify." You can never rewrite history, but try to imagine what Europe would look like if it had been said in 1989: well, we're having a good time together, it's well organized here, and the Iron Curtain is gone, but you figure it out. It would have looked much worse for millions of Europeans and also for safety in the Netherlands. I really think it is purely a question of conducting the discussion on sanctions within NATO. Within NATO and the EU, the Netherlands has the reputation of always taking the lead in sanctions. I think that is sometimes right, but it does not help if I go public and confirm that image by inventing all kinds of things without having had a thorough and careful discussion with the other countries, which should eventually agree unanimously. I also referred to Article 60 of the Vienna Convention in the first place. That Article calls on all parties to enter into consultations when a treaty or part of a treaty is violated. No one can argue with that. In this spirit, I also answer the question of sanctions: this must be done with the agreement of all parties. I think it would be wise if we looked at whether we could extend the instruments, but I do need all the parties involved. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u35	I still see Mr Van Apeldoorn standing. For the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u36	For the last time, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I was not going to say anything more, but I would like to distance myself from the Minister's suggestion, which says: let's say that in '89 we told those countries to find out. If you weren't in favour of NATO enlargement at the time, you actually told those countries to figure it out because you didn't care if they were moving towards a democratic rule of law or not. I think that's some serious bullshit. NATO enlargement is not an instrument for promoting democracy and the rule of law elsewhere. If it were a suitable instrument, we should not have allowed Portugal before, and we should now suspend Turkey immediately. So I'd like to distance myself from that. I think there would have been a chance at the time if we had not expanded NATO. We shouldn't have told those countries that they had to figure it out, but that we wanted to try to figure it out together. We could have looked at whether perhaps with the former Soviet Union we could have achieved a European security structure that is inclusive rather than ultimately exclusive, also towards Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u37	And your question to the Minister? Or is it just a remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u38	The question is whether the Minister can respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u39	Sure. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked me to respond to Mr De Hoop Scheffer's and Mr Bolkestein's thinking. Then he can expect me to think along with him and think back to 1989 because then that question was answered and the scenario is going to end what would have happened if those countries had not had the prospect of NATO and EU membership. Because that's the inevitable line of thought, isn't it? I would like to outline to you that it would have been bad for those countries and for us too. I would very much like to debate and think along with you, but you cannot blame me entirely for doing so. I regret that we do not agree; sometimes we agree. But it was really sincere, because you asked me three times if I wanted to comment on the reasoning of Bolkestein and De Hoop Scheffer. Well, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-9.u41	I have come to deal with this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on this bill next week. I shall suspend the meeting pending the arrival of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. She's already in the house. Then we resume the debate on the Act deactivation quota levy.
