ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we have now come to the final question. That is Mr Sjoerdsma's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. This question is allowed in connection with unanswered written questions regarding the message that the Netherlands provided assistance to Dutch extravagants in Syria in 2017. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I was popping my ears at the message from the NIS in early April. In the spring of 2017 the Netherlands had contact with the Turkish and Kurdish authorities to get Dutch Syrians checked out of the battle zone. For this purpose photos were exchanged, to confirm identity, and for that purpose information was passed on to the Turkish authorities over four jihadists, because they were heading towards the border. Mr. Chairman. There has never been a word about these actions in this Chamber, although we regularly discuss this with this Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and despite the fact that D66 explicitly asked the cabinet in September 2017 what was true of the stories that assistance is being provided anyway. The answer is three months three months! "The Dutch government does not offer assistance to Dutch extravagants to leave the battlefield." This seems to be in direct contradiction with the NOS' WOB messages. I ask the Minister whether it is true that the Netherlands has indeed provided assistance to Dutch extravagants in Syria. If so, when exactly was this? And I ask him why this has not been reported by the Minister, despite the many written questions and despite the many debates about this with me and other colleagues in this Chamber. Is it true that the then Minister for Justice and Security, Mr Blok, changed the procedure and the policy in response to our questions? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the NOS reports that the entire government security chain of Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security had a different analysis, namely that it would be necessary in the interests of security to retrieve the Dutch checked. Why did they find that? Can that analysis be shared with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. On 8 April 2019, Mr Sjoerdsma put questions to the House of Representatives to Minister Blok and myself. Let me begin by apologizing for the fact that they have not been answered within the time limit. I assure you that they will be answered within one week of today. The questions of the member Sjoerdsma see whether the Netherlands provided assistance to Dutch extravagants before joining this cabinet in 2017. As I said, this point will be dealt with in the reply within one week. In any case, I would like to make it clear that no assistance has been given by this cabinet to Dutch jihadists to leave the battle zone. I have informed your Chamber orally and in writing on several occasions. We're not getting people back from battlefield. I have also always said that there are three fixed criteria: the security situation in the region, diplomatic relations and the security of those involved. We don't send people to unsafe areas to remove jihadists there. I always look at the importance of national security when it comes to the consideration I make. And, as I have said, I shall close by saying that we are really working very hard on a careful and complete answer to Mr Sjoerdsma's questions about that period up to this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	I thank the Minister, of course, for being here today, and also for sending the answers to the Chamber within a week. I would also like to thank the Minister for his apologies. But of course we are standing here because there are no answers. And that's not the first time. The questions that this round is about were already asked in September 2017. Also then it took three months for the answers to come. Now the Minister says: no assistance has been provided. That is a categorical denial of what was brought by the NIS in early April. The NOS said that photos were exchanged to determine the identity of Dutch jihadis and the Turkish authorities were warned that these people are going to the border, with the aim of facilitating that. I actually just want those answers. Not for nothing, as I would like to say to the President, we have Article 68 of the Constitution, on passive and active information. If this was the policy, if this really happened, the Chamber should have just known, so I say to the Minister. And the Chamber should not only have known; it has also been asked very often, not only by my group in these written questions, but by all the groups, from the PVV on the right to the Socialist Party on the left, in written questions and in debates. I appreciate the Minister's standing here right now, but I just don't think it's possible to get those answers today. So I want those answers, and I actually want more than this minister gives. I would also like to know, in my view, that question can be answered very well today when that change of course has been put in place and whether it is true, for example, that Minister Blok has used that change of course in response to the questions we have asked. Those are factual questions and the answers must be available within one day. I actually had a completely different second term in mind: content, about what happened. But now it has to be procedural. I hope the Minister will be able to answer this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	I said that this cabinet did not provide assistance to Dutch jihadists to leave the battle zone. I am not going to repeat what else I have said about this. I said that the answer to Mr Sjoerdsma's questions relating to the period before 26 October 2017 will follow within one week. I am very sorry, also on behalf of Mr Blok, that it has not been possible within the time limit. That must be an exception, but unfortunately that was no different here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr. Sjoerdsma. You have 13 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	Well, then I'm not gonna ask a question, but there's something I'd like to say. If those answers are inadequate too, after so much time, I will look at the President. Perhaps a letter from the President could then go to the Cabinet on the operation of the obligation to provide information. I understand very well that the Minister says that this cabinet did not have that policy, but the questions naturally saw what the previous cabinet did. I would also like to have those answers within a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I will go to Mr De Graaf, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	I've written on a note once. Just before the Minister arrived, we made a problem of the fact that the minister as a private person felt that jihadists should not be deprived of citizenship, but that they should come back to the Netherlands. When this minister was not yet a minister, he also said: I want to debate with jihadists; after accountability and trial there must be mercy. Those were the words of the private person Ferdinand Grapperhaus before he became minister. We made a problem of that, but he was still Minister. He said, as a minister, I have a different opinion, and as a private person, I must be able to express my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	Now Mr. Sjoerdsma has asked some very legitimate questions, already in writing, with Mr. Verhoeven, and now he comes back to it. I asked 14, 15 months ago for a debate on this issue and everything around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	What is your question, Mr. De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr President, the introduction is necessary, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	No, really just the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, but then the question gets clearer. I need one more rule for that. We now see the private person Grapperhaus rather than the Minister Grapperhaus returning to the front. That person makes the Netherlands more unsafe rather than safer. My question is, after all that number, after all that hiding behind his three criteria and still operating in the background to get people back: what is the minister doing in his post?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	I will take the matter, if you will allow it, in a transferable sense, because I do not know if you are interested in hearing from me what I am doing at this post. Two things. First of all, I have always felt that jihadists should be severely tried and punished. This can also be found in the document quoted by Mr Graaf. Secondly, on 21 February 2019, I informed your Chamber of the fact that the Rotterdam Court had issued a number of decisions in which he indicated that the Cabinet should investigate the possibility of actually bringing women jihadists who were tried in the Netherlands at that time, who were therefore subject to criminal proceedings, before the Dutch courts. In that decision, the court also referred to talks with the Iraqi authorities. I assume this was because the court had a Bosatlas. The government has said that it will investigate as far as possible. In order not to damage the confidentiality of these talks, I cannot go into the details of those discussions. That is already reported to the Chamber on 21 February. Mr De Graaf knows that. That was done at the court's intrusive request. We are now about three months away and I do not believe that there is a great deal of urgency there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	Good. I'm going to Mrs. Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Minister indeed refers to the ruling of the court in January. As far as we are concerned, it is multi-interpretable and a note to Iraq would have been sufficient. What concerns us now is whether the Minister will inform us about all the steps he is going to take on this dossier in response to this statement, Mr Sjoerdsma's questions and Mr De Graaf's request for debate, which we will be supporting again in a moment. Then we, as a Chamber, could make an explicit statement on this. Will he stay in line as promised so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	If, by me, by the cabinet, I let it be clearly stated on this file or on another issue, but let me focus on it, we will, of course, report to the Chamber on it. That makes sense to me. I would point out that, precisely in order not to compromise the confidentiality and security of certain parties involved, you are always reluctant to explore the things you do that have nothing to do with taking steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. We have votes at 3 p.m.
