ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the underperformance of 48 home-care organisations. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About a year ago, we were informed that the Consumer Union had requested the 50 most recent home care inspection reports at the inspection and had compared them. Then it turned out that 48 out of 50 home care organizations performed below par. Of course, that scares the hell out of you, even if you've been in this house for a lot of years. There were clients tied up in wheelchairs. There was insulin inflicted by unskilled personnel, which could be fatal. In any case, two thirds of the staff of some organisations did not have training to carry out the tasks they had to perform. I'm asking the Minister now, a year later, what he actually did at the time. Did he call the lieutenant on the mat? Did he immediately have a number of officials investigating 7,385 other inspection reports? What did he do with the 7,000 notifications received from the National Health Service? The question I always ask in this kind of debate is: why is it the Consumers' Union, in this case? Why are people always paying attention to this sort of thing? Why isn't it the Ministry itself? Why isn't it the inspection? Mr. Chairman. The Consumers' Association also set up a hotline, which also received 150 reports, of which dozens were very poignant. For example, there was a case manager of dementia who came home to a client so heavily polluted that two garbage bags of dirty incontinence material were taken out of the bedroom; the bed was also severely polluted. Another example is that of someone with COPD, who was already in the final phase of her life. I just couldn't get someone to come in here and vacuum. Mr. Chairman. I'll ask the Minister again what he did. A while ago I said that you should not leave the supervision of the household aid part to 390 municipalities. Why don't you add that controlling task to the inspection? Because a lot of home care organisations that organise community care also organise domestic help. So they usually get over the floor. I didn't hear from the Minister about that later. That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. I call Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I watched Pointer's broadcast yesterday, like a lot of other people, I guess. You know it's happening, you know it's too common, and yet you're still terrified of what happens when profits are made over the backs of patients and clients. There are profit rates of up to 50%; for example, millions of care money are lost. It is disgusting that this has been happening for years without intervention. We are talking about the cost of care, because it would be so heavy, but year in, year out healthcare providers go over the line and put millions in their pockets. Money for care has to go to care. Does the Minister agree? I also ask him whether he thinks that this distribution of benefits in the care sector should finally be stopped. Care and profit just don't go together. The Minister will soon come forward with a notification obligation for new healthcare providers. Is that the solution now? If someone has to come forward, are all these mega profits, the fraud and the abuses overboard? I don't think so. I think it's too little. I'm gonna ask the Minister if he's gonna do more. And of course, it's not a coincidence. We put those lists next to each other for a while. It is not by chance that on that list of pocket fillers in the care are partly the same names as on that list we are discussing today. That is a list of health care institutions whose inspection has said that they are not in order. I'll just leave that question to the Minister. Doesn't he think it's a coincidence that bad care and megaprofits often go hand in hand? And then the question is: what is he going to do about it? Let me give you an example: Connected2Care in Almere. At the first visit they met only seven out of fifteen requirements. Meanwhile, in the past year they have turned half a million euros in turnover and made half a profit. A profit of 50%. We also saw in yesterday's broadcast the care of the elderly with extremely high rents. I mention the gentleman who had to pay €3,500 a month rent, while the health care institution also received over €3,000 to provide the care. But there was no cook, there was no activity counseling; practically nothing happened. The gentleman sometimes had to wait half an hour before he could go to the bathroom. What does the Minister think of this? What's he gonna do? 85 cowboys in care who earn more than 40 million euros. Of that money, out of 40 million, you can give 6,500 people a nice place in a health care neighborhood. I'd like to close with that, too. If the minister had to choose between 40 million profits for these healthcare providers or 6,500 places in the health care neighbourhood, what would he choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I call Mrs Laan-Selschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. Following the congratulations on the occasion of the Minister's birthday, I would like to point out in every respect that the quality of care at the VVD is of paramount importance. When you get home care, you have to be able to trust that care is good. But we're probably all agreed on that. Last year the Consumers' Association ruled that out of the 50 inspection reports it analysed, 48 did not meet good and safe care. That's what the debate is about tonight. In the letter we received this afternoon, the Minister writes that most of the organisations are now meeting the requirements and that ten of the organisations mentioned at the time are still subject to follow-up monitoring. At the time they were new entrants or organisations that were not yet known at the time of the inspection. Mr. Chairman. My question to the Minister is whether, in the past year, despite the fact that we still have to discuss the Accession Law on healthcare providers, there has been a critical review of new entrants. What is the situation with regard to follow-up supervision and what impact does that have on the people receiving home care? The Act of Accession introduces a notification obligation for all new healthcare providers. This will improve not only the control of a healthcare institution's finances, but also indirectly the quality of care. Therefore, hurry up with that letter of amendment, I would say. We talked about it this afternoon in the order of business. The report of the inspection of August 2018 deals with several issues. The fact that only 85% of the staff are available and qualified after re-examination is a concern for us. 100% may be whishful thinking, but can be expected from healthcare providers. We are also concerned about the fact that 19% of the organisations have expressed doubts about the obligation to be involved and the statements on behaviour. Can the Minister explain why this is happening and how he thinks this particular point can be improved? The same applies to the reporting code for signals of domestic violence and child abuse, where almost a quarter of the institutions do not act in accordance with the requirements. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. The VVD awaits and expects a lot of the Act of Accession healthcare providers. I would also like to mention the more positive role of the inspection. She also sees a lot of good things and beautiful examples of a special approach in home care. I would like to know how the inspection can better portray these stories and how they can serve as an example for other institutions, so that they can also provide this care. It'll be very useful for everyone. Best practices you have to share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u7	I have another question about supervision, particularly the supervision of municipal care. The problem, of course, is this. We will soon be getting the law that will have to regulate everything in order to make a more rigorous assessment of the new entrants before they can start. But municipal care isn't gonna be covered by that law. The inspection does not supervise the care provided in the municipalities. Doesn't the VVD think it would be much wiser to include the municipalities under the supervision of the inspection and to place the municipal care in that new Wtza?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u8	I think this is a wonderful part of the debate that we are going to have about this new law. I would also like to hear your arguments more specifically why you think it could be of added value. I would therefore like to hear the government's assessment of why this is not included in the law in this way. But in due course, we will see how we stand in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u9	I also mention this because another debate that was planned for this evening was about providers from Bulgaria working in our country. Under the guise of domestic help they come home to people and then perform all kinds of actions that they are not competent to do. The inspection has hardly any vision of it and the municipality has hardly any vision of it either. So there really is a huge gap when it comes to monitoring those forms of care. My question to Mrs Laan is whether she wants to look at it. She doesn't have the answer ready right now, apparently. I don't mind, it's no big deal. But let's see how we can do it better for the next few weeks. Because there is a huge gap between the supervision of care in municipalities and the role that the inspection should play in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr Hijink once again explained why he asked me his question. I stand by the answer I gave at first. Of course, we are going to see how this law can actually solve the problems for the Dutch. If there are holes, we'll look at them. If it's enough, that's it. But all the considerations for this will be taken into account in the debate that is to take place on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u11	We can now build all our hopes for a new law, whereby new offenders must report in advance. However, home care and domestic help are of course somewhat larger than just new providers. This happened to involve about 50 new suppliers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But, of course, there are thousands of institutions that provide home care. We can now see that the inspection actually has a very wait-and-see attitude. Not until someone complains, they're gonna take a look. What does the VVD think of this approach to the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u12	I think the inspection has done a pretty good job so far. You are talking about 'thousands', but there will also be thousands where things are just going very well. Of course there are incidents and rightly attention is drawn to them. In that sense, it is also a good thing that we are having this debate together tonight. But let us not forget that a lot of good work is also being done. Of course, there are things that go wrong, and the inspection must intervene on that. We also received that report in August last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u13	These are 48 of the 50 home-care institutions that the Consumers' Association accidentally took together. There are 7,385 more reports. Does Mrs Laan-Geselschap think that all is well there? What does she expect from the minister when it comes to supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think Mrs Agema is asking two questions. The first is about the 48 institutions. Afterwards it turned out that 25 of them were already functioning perfectly. So half of them are already losing weight. In addition, we were able to read this afternoon that there are ten remaining which are still being investigated. Once again, I particularly support you in saying that if something goes wrong, we must look at it. That is what we are asking the Minister for, and that is why I have taken out two specific aspects of the inspection that we are concerned about. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he deals with that. Again, if things really go wrong, it is quite right that they should be denounced here. Because that's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u15	Finally, Mr President. Mrs Laan-Geselschap walks over things very easily when she says: half was fine. How would she feel if a lover of hers comes to inject insulin to someone who is not qualified to do so, which is potentially lethal? How would she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u16	I'd be very sad and angry about that. Once again, I have just indicated that we must denounce the incidents where things are not going well. You do that regularly, and so do other colleagues. We need to look into that and ask the Minister. I think that's exactly why we're sitting here on Thursday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr Slootweg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to join in the congratulations to the Minister. Still nice to spend this evening with all of us! It is now a winged expression: it is easier to become a healthcare provider than to open a snack bar. More than a year ago, the Consumers' Association reported that the 50 most recent inspection reports on home care organisations showed that no less than 48 did not meet the conditions for good and safe care. I would therefore like to support Mrs Agema's question, because I also think that we should not actually hear this through the Consumers' Association and that it would be a good thing to report positively to the Chamber when those inspection reports are in place. Seven of these organisations did not even meet any conditions. We are now a year further, and the letter we received from the Minister this afternoon shows that ten organisations are still under supervision. I would like to get a clear timetable from the Minister, which sets out what that monitoring is about. On what date does care have to comply with all standards and what action will the Minister take if these organisations still do not comply with the basic rules for the provision of care? Mr. Chairman. In his letter of 25 September 2018, the Minister nuances the image presented by the Consumers' Association. It would be a specific group of 50 new or previously unknown healthcare providers for the IGJ. But is it true that there are some who have actually made a kind of restart under a different name? I think he's got another squeeze somewhere... offering care is something other than driving in your first year of driving. At the latter you have countries where you have to put a sticker on the car to indicate that you still have to learn. The CDA believes that a home care organisation, whether new or existing for years, must at all times comply with all conditions for good and safe care. The basis must be in order, before you can be released on a group that is already vulnerable. How does the Minister view this? Finally, Mr President. In the letter of 25 September 2018, the Minister states that the IGJ intends to visit each new healthcare provider within four weeks to six months after the new healthcare institution has started providing care. What's the status of this plan? How many healthcare providers actually start every year and the IGJ achieves its goal from four weeks to six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u19	I fully agree with Mr. Slootweg when he says that he believes that all home care providers must comply with all the conditions. On the basis of this poll alone, of course, we also know that we are very far from that. At what time does he want this objective to be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u20	First of all, I want to get a bit of a response from the Minister to what we are actually talking about. Suppose this problem mainly occurs with new healthcare providers, then... And that's actually all we know now, isn't it? We now know from 50 new starting organisations what it was like there last year. I don't think we have a poll of all the organizations yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u21	That is a question for Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u22	I thought that was so amazing. We've been a year and the rest hasn't been investigated yet! Anyway, it's not just about new home care providers, of course. We also have institutions that started in 2005, '06, '08, 2009, '10, '11 and '12. Some of them have been in operation for a lot of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u24	So I understand that you, like me, don't know what the situation is now. But when the inspection says that it's not in order with a third party now, I wonder when the CDA wants it to be in order. I fully agree with you that every home care provider must comply with all these conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u25	I think Mrs Agema really heard me say that, just as I expect all the starting car drivers to be able to drive when they get on the road, I expect home care organisations to be in order. I would like to hear from the Minister what the picture is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mrs. Agema, very briefly. It is now an interruption in three parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u27	Sorry, Chairman. According to the inspection, 34% is currently left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u28	Well, then there must be for that 34%...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u29	At what time does the CDA want this to be 100%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u30	Very soon. It should be 100% as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u31	Well, that's kind of lame, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. Slootweg, thank you very much. Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Can people still rely on good and safe care? In May last year, it appeared that 48 out of the 50 newest home care organisations did not meet the conditions for good and safe care. None of these organisations have been placed under enhanced supervision. There has always been a re-examination. What are the responsibilities of the inspections in so-called risk monitoring? The rulers write in the letter of the Chamber that there was much improvement after re-examination. Relatively yes, because in September 2018 more than half of the institutions concerned still have an insufficient level, and this while the delivery of care has continued unabated. Mr. Chairman. Measures shall take into account the proportionality and effectiveness of the measure. It is only when there are serious risks that the inspection takes them up as a matter of urgency. In the coverage one speaks of carers being hired, the use of tied blankets and staff locking doors for clients as examples of abuses. I ask the Minister: if none of these offences is seen as a reason for increased surveillance, when will they be? Mr. Chairman. There will be a bill of accession of healthcare providers which obliges new healthcare providers to report in advance. The idea is that healthcare providers can be informed about quality requirements in a timely manner. Why is it not possible to obtain information from potential healthcare providers before they register at the inspection? Mr. Chairman. I notice that time is moving very quickly. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u34	He's grateful for that. I note that this has brought us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for 15 minutes before replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u35	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the congratulations. Thank you, too, for being willing to celebrate my birthday here tonight. I wouldn't have hoped that for a while ago. Of course, that's very nice. A short debate on the agenda this evening, but it is also a very serious subject and a serious one. The reason was a publication by the Consumers' Association last year. Let me start with the question that Mrs Agema asked: what do you think when you see such a publication? The first thing I think is that something is not going well in the supervision of new providers. Of course, I had very intensive discussions with the inspection. What is not going well in the supervision of new providers at the moment? So what should be better there? In what way does the amendment of the law already in place in the Chamber provide for the improvement of this new supervision and, where appropriate, what additional needs are there? First of all, I'd like to do a block on the supervision of new providers. Then I want to do a block zooming in on the result, those 50 providers and how things stand with that now. A number of questions have been asked. The third block is the other questions about inspection supervision. A final block concerns the questions raised by Mr Hijink in connection with the broadcast of Pointer and Follow the Money on profit. Although I do not think it is entirely a subject that is on the agenda here, I would like to say a few things about it. I assume that we will be able to discuss this further, for example in the case of Wtza. I understand that the Chamber would also like to include the profit letter. First of all, the supervision of new providers. At the moment, there is no obligation to report. There is a possibility of notification, a request for notification, for new providers, but there is no obligation to report. This does not make it fully known to the CIBG, through the register, on which new providers start. In addition, it is therefore necessary to analyse which new providers are starting. This can be discovered by the inspection by registering with the Chamber of Commerce. You feel that, no matter how well you try to do that, no complete list will come out. That makes it very difficult to get a clear view of these new providers. If you look at the total list that is composed of the voluntary notifications and the result of the rollout of the Chamber of Commerce, you will see that there are about 13,000 new providers per year, just over half of which report via the website new healthcare providers.nl. That 13,000 is ripe and green mixed up. They're calling themselves in. Those affected by registration with the Chamber of Commerce themselves indicate that they are health care providers, but very often they are, for example, Wmo providers. That's supervisory municipalities. I'll get back to you on that. Most of the new healthcare providers are soloists, so you can't get past that. There is inspection supervision, but on the basis of incident monitoring. It is not always about new suppliers, but also about the transposition of a legal person. So those too are not part of the supervision of new providers. Some of it hasn't started yet. You can't visit them because they haven't started caring yet. What you end up with is a group of healthcare providers that actually starts out as a new healthcare provider and is also visited within four weeks to six months. A question from Mr Slootweg was whether it will succeed. The answer is: yes, it does succeed in visiting them. Far from ideal. That is also what the Consumers' Union rightly notes. So it has to be different and better. I would like to outline how we are going to ensure that supervision of the new healthcare providers will go differently and better. The first is the Wtza reporting obligation. It's in the Wtza as it is now. That's a duty to report prior to the start, so before the start of care. This will, of course, give the inspection better insight into who the new healthcare providers are, and enable it to take early action on the conditions, quality and safety of care. New healthcare providers are also becoming more aware of what is involved in this Wtza notification obligation. Mr Slootweg attaches to that the anecdotal, but unfortunately simply true qualification that it is easier to start as a new healthcare provider than to open a snack bar tomorrow. Unfortunately, that's just true and we have to get rid of it, because it should be exactly the other way around. However, I think that a new snack bar can still be made subject to a few requirements. The Chamber will receive a letter of amendment as soon as possible, on top of the Wtza as it already is. This has to do with the extension of the reporting obligation to new healthcare providers that are only subcontractors, and to new youth aid providers. This makes the view of new suppliers even more complete. But we have thought: it could still be that a new provider does have a duty to report, but nevertheless does not report. That is why we have agreed with health insurance companies and health care agencies to link this to the obligation to report to obtain the AGB code as a condition. The AGB code is again a condition for paying the accounts at all. In short and simply put: not reported, no money. That offers a closing system at the front. That's the first thing that matters. Maybe I can add a second point to that, but we can do that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u37	First, there is an interruption by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u38	Perhaps the Minister has learned something from yesterday's and today's arrangements of work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u40	These were fraudulent institutions, institutions where money is legally transferred to private accounts, and problems with the quality of new providers. The Chamber is really eager to discuss this Act of Accession healthcare providers and that Adaptation Act. A large part of the Chamber does not want to wait any longer. My specific question to the Minister is: when can we now discuss this law? Is that next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u41	The letters of amendment came back from the Council of State at the beginning of September. These are currently being incorporated into the latest amendments to that letter of amendment. They're on their way to the ministerial council on October 11th. But I have indeed taken note of the requests made in the regulation of work, and I am really going to do my best to get it to next week. That would then be discussed at next Friday's Council of Ministers. This means that, as far as I am concerned, we can treat the law fine the following week, but that is what the Chamber is about of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you very much. We'll all prepare for that. The tricky thing is that the Wtza is a bit of a panacea; it is the solution to all problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u43	He's not. I'll get that in my answer, but I get it very well, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u44	Well, we'd like to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u45	That's perfectly right. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u46	The Minister's sketching a very clear picture. I wouldn't be able to figure out how to get through to the health insurance companies right now. Part of it is of course also about funding through the municipalities. Is this obligation to notify just as conclusively? Or will the Minister perhaps come back to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u47	On the municipal side, it is actually even easier, because, for example, the whole phenomenon of uncontracted care exists much less among the municipalities, or actually does not exist among the municipalities, depending on the contractual situation of the municipality. In short, you will only be paid for care there if you are also contracted. By the way, there is also a great concern on the part of municipalities, I know from my own experience in Rotterdam. This concern relates in particular to those providers who were under the old AWBZ, i.e. before 2015, the provider of sheltered housing, and who went along with the decentralisation of the WMO as of 1 January 2015. At that time, the supervision of the municipalities had to be properly established. That is better now; I will come back to that in a moment. But there's actually the biggest concern. This is not so much the question of the new entrants, but rather the question of the intensity of supervision. So that's getting better and better. Indeed, you can see everything in between, from very good providers to providers who really do not care enough for what they are contracted for. But that is more a question of good contract management and good supervision than of really being a new entrant issue. On the youth side, the inspection certainly has oversight. What we will do, among other things, is to add youth providers to the same obligations arising from the Wtza and its obligation to notify.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u48	This is pretty clear to me. Then I have a second question. One of the situations that we encounter very often is that we continue under a different name, a kind of legal personality. Does this mean that you escape the dance of such a duty of notification by means of a shortcut "I'm putting another label on it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u49	When a new provider starts, what I just outlined applies. If a legal person is converted and it is a provider that is already on the scope of the inspection, then this is not subject to a new entrant arrangement, but then it is simply a provider under regular supervision. Suppose it was a provider who, for example, had to stop because of undersized care or whatever and that the same people started again. Actually, it's gonna take something else. That's where you want to raise the wall to stop fraud. For this we have another law in preparation, which includes a warning register, so that healthcare providers who have previously been kicked out of the system cannot get another contract from another municipality or from another healthcare office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u50	I have another question about the current providers, so not so much the new providers. We'll have a new law later. We know that strict requirements will apply to new suppliers. We've seen this week that with smart data research, like Follow the Money and we've seen at Pointer, you're able to get a good idea of where the risks are. Where are very large profits made? Often it appears that where mega-profits are made, care is not in order. Because that money needs to be cut somewhere. Apart from this new law, what are we going to do about the suppliers that we have for a long time, the many thousands that will undoubtedly be among many who perhaps belong to the category that the minister on television calls the 'rotte apples'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u51	That is actually the last block I would have liked to do, as a result of the Pointeruissing. It's really wider than the new entrants alone. In my third block I come back to what is in regular supervision and how the inspection comes to the risk assessment that also applies to regular providers. That just keeps going this way. In addition, you are right to ask whether the Wtza is the solution to everything you see coming along in such a broadcast of Pointer. The answer is: no, there will really be a number of things more needed for that. I'll outline that in a minute. Let's talk about the new entrants. I would just like to say openly that it has been a matter of consideration for us. Let me return to Mrs Agema's first question. When you see the analysis, how do you look at the system of new entrants? The Wtza is a huge step forward from what we have now. But we've also come to the conclusion that we don't think it's enough. Apart from the letters of amendment coming up on the new entrants as subcontractors and the youth provider. This is really a matter of moving insight. As a cabinet, we have said earlier: it seems to us to be very aggravating in the administrative burden. In the meantime, we have come to the conclusion that, apart from the obligation to notify, you should also have a permit requirement. A notification obligation means that you first make sure that 100% are registered. Afterwards one is in the picture at the inspection and the inspection may have supervision of new entrants. But you might also want some conditions to be met before you can start in healthcare at all. You also want to take that next step and come to a licensing obligation. Then we faced a certain balance. The current Wtza is already in the Chamber. Actually, that law is pretty much finished. It can simply be dealt with, with a number of notes of amendment to improve the law and make it more final. Especially in combination with the AGB-codes and the appointment with the health insurance companies of "not reported is no money" you are already pretty close. That is therefore a rather fundamental step forward. But the test of whether one meets the conditions for good care you would actually want to do before one can start. You would like to make the licensing obligation currently applicable to larger providers applicable to providers with more than 10 healthcare providers, that is to say to all new start-ups. But if we had first wanted to think about how we would want to shape the Wtza as it is in the Chamber, then the Wtza would have been delayed again. And that Wtza has been in the Chamber for a while. We have therefore informed your vacation room that we are going to do this, that we will come in December with the details of how we intend to do that and that we will then send a law to the Chamber that is based on the Wtza, but which is actually a development of that law. We think it will help speed to do it this way. I can imagine that it will also lead to discussion when the Wtza is being discussed. So let us have that discussion properly and thoroughly, but we must not make it better every time it becomes the enemy of good. That is why we have said: let us at least do this and let us work out this licensing obligation at the same time, because we do believe that the thresholds for new entrants will have to be even more stringent than they will have to be after the introduction of the Wtza. I come to a number of questions about the new entrants before I turn to the questions about the list of 50 and what happened to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Hijink has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u53	A very short procedural question. Do I understand why we can expect a supplementary bill in December? Or are we going to have a kind of letter in December which states what such a licensing obligation is going to look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u54	That last one. The last one anyway. A legislative process in which this has already been worked out will take more time than we have until December, especially since you will also have to have the Council of State in the process. In addition, there are a number of questions of thought. Then what do you propose as a permit requirement? You can see the balance we have to make the whole time. We are now really making a different trade-off than the one they made at the WTZi. On the one hand, you have administrative burdens. Of course, you want them to be as low as possible. On the other hand, you have the responsibility to take on a guarantee of sufficient safety and quality of care, including from new entrants. You need to regulate this licensing obligation in a good and precise way, so that you can actually check the conditions that you can check in advance, prior to the start. For example, you could think of jurisdictional requirements. Are we going to meet that? It is therefore important that we consider carefully what permit requirements we could impose. In December, we'll let you know how we're going to work that out, but then there's no law in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u55	I understand. I would really like it if we could get some kind of timeline, because we have noticed that this took a very long time at the Wtza.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u56	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u57	If that letter comes in December, there should be something in the spring, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u58	Agreed. Agreed. So step one is the Wtza. Step 2 is the licensing requirement. It's in further development. We will inform you about this at the end of the year. The VVD has asked whether there has been a critical review of the new entrants and how we deal with them in the past year. Of course. That's actually kind of happening in the form I've just described. The complicated thing with these new entrants is right now that we know that we don't have everything in view. But where it's in the picture, the selection goes the way I just described it. That is to say, not the soloists, not the Wmo providers and not the providers that are already in the picture. This is how a selection is made. The remaining club will be visited within four weeks to six months after the start. Particular attention will be paid to ensuring that the conditions of good care are met. This is also in line with the CDA's question: these conditions must be in order before healthcare is started? Yes, new entrants are particularly subject to these conditions. What I have just pointed out in the direction of Mrs Agema is that we want to take the test on the preconditions prior to the start. That is not the case now, nor is it after the Wtza was introduced. Then still it will be after the start, shortly after the start. Then there's a 100% scope, where it's not there right now. We want to go to a test on cross-compliance prior to the start. Mr. Chairman. Then the second block: the list of 50. How do we do that and how did that go on? I have explained the current state of affairs to you, but perhaps briefly because it is good to have those figures sharp. Out of 50 healthcare organisations, 21 met the conditions for providing good care in September 2018 and 4 organisations were no longer providing care. So we've got 25 left. Of those 25, a monitoring plan has been drawn up for each care organisation and a monitoring path has been launched. For 15 healthcare organisations, this monitoring path has now ended and for 10 healthcare organisations, follow-up monitoring activities have taken place and further monitoring is ongoing. The reasons for this follow-up are very different. For example, there are four organisations that have not or have not fully complied with the annual accounting obligation. Those organisations, for example, have been burdened with periodic penalty payments. As long as they don't comply with that, the burden will remain subject to periodic penalty payments. For two organisations, they are under intensified supervision. There have been several visits. The healthcare organisation will of course have time to implement these improvements, but at the same time unexpected follow-up visits will follow. One will be closed soon. Perhaps it is good to add that every care organisation, including this list, is always under supervision. Once the supervisory arrangement for new healthcare providers has been completed, regular supervision will apply, including the risk-based approach. This approach involves complaints from the national hotline. If, in the context of the new admissions monitoring, we say that this monitoring process has ended, then we will then be regarded as a regular provider, to which, of course, supervision applies. In short, after, for example, the completion of a journey in the framework of new entrants in January, a notification that is now being made can lead to new supervision. It's possible. That should also be the case because, of course, supervision is something permanent. Perhaps it would be a good idea to take a look at the figures and questions raised by Mrs Agema. It was the PVV and the CDA who asked why the inspection didn't bring this out. The point is that the inspection brings this out. The Consumer Union's publication was based on inspection reports. Those inspection reports are just public and are just on the website. Those 7,000 reports at the National Health Service, which Mrs. Agema is asking for, are all sorts of things. Those are just the reports that citizens can make at the inspection. They're getting involved. If a complaint is requested where it can be lodged, reporters are referred to the place where they can lodge a complaint. They are helped further by how they can actually do something with what they are concerned with. In any case, these notifications shall be involved in the risk-based approach of the inspection of that overall list of providers under regular risk-based supervision. In short, these reports are very useful because they are all eyes and ears to see where something is not going well somewhere. This is therefore involved in the choice made in the framework of regular supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u59	My loyal collaborator in the back of the room, of course, looks very often on the website of the inspection. By the way, so does my other associate. But there's only three of us, of course. We can't catch all the balls, so to speak. It is not a question of publishing all these reports on the inspection website, but of always having to be a third, in this case the Consumers' Association, which draws a sample of 50 and then comes to these shocking conclusions. My question to the Minister was actually: how can it always be a third party journalist, the Consumer Union, a citizen who brings these things forward and not the Ministry itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u60	The inspection is part of the Ministry itself. The report is from the inspection, so it is the inspection that carries out the monitoring, which makes the observations, which then sets up the follow-up monitoring. So the observation is incorrect that we ourselves would not go ahead with these reports. That is exactly what the inspection is doing. We have thousands of healthcare providers, because there are 1.2 million people working in healthcare. It is, of course, impossible to organise an inspection that has eyes and ears everywhere, always, to see what happens. At the same time, we know that there are a lot of observations of relatives or relatives, who say: this is not really possible, this is not what has been agreed, this is not what I should have expected? That is why the national hotline was set up. This is now entirely structured in such a way that all the complaints or reports, so all the eyes and ears that are there, are used in the risk-oriented approach in the monitoring of the inspection. And that's exactly how it's supposed to be, I guess. We have established that there is a role in the system for a supervisor. That's our inspection. That inspection oversees the care on behalf of all of us. The reports are public, and there has been a debate on this too, so anyone can look into it. That is also good, because that makes it transparent. It is then up to the inspection to take follow-up measures, and this is done, but on the basis of proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u61	I don't think the Minister really understands what I mean. The Consumer Union sample was first and the inspection will soon repeat it. Yes, I do. That's what worries me so much. Not only that the inspection with the capacity it has publishes all those reports on its own website, but that it always has to be a third party doing a sample or something. That's what we had years ago at the nursing homes. You wonder why it always has to be a third, a paying journalist, Follow the Money, the Consumers' Union,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u62	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u63	In order to avoid any misunderstanding, what the Consumers' Association has published was not an own study in practice, but an analysis of 50 inspection reports. In short, it was the inspection that carried out the observations and the Consumers' Association that monitored them. In addition, the Consumers' Association has also made a general call for complaints to be reported in healthcare. That is what the inspection agreed with the Consumers' Association: if there are any complaints that you think should be made, as the inspection also goes in case of complaints coming to the national hotline, please report to us and we will call the person who filed the complaint. There has been no follow-up, as no further reports have been transmitted. Anyway, that doesn't matter either, because the possibility as an individual citizen to report your complaint to the inspection, so that the inspection that can be involved in her investigation, is also available through the Dutch National Health Service. I want to take away the misunderstanding that it had to be someone else who did an investigation first, after which the inspection came in the legs. No, it was the inspection itself that made the reports, which were analyzed by another.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u64	Yeah, that's what I said. My question then is: why is it another, who then does a sample of 50, so not just those 50 reports published on the website, as the inspection does, but another one she takes off and compares with each other? That was my question. That's what you see on Follow the Money. You see so often that we stand here because third parties do so, also on the basis of annual reports from institutions. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, we requested a debate on those 85 institutions where nearly 80 million were transferred to private accounts. That'll be Follow the Money. Then I think, "Why are we always chasing everything?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u65	But then you assume that the things that then emerge from those analyses... Look, first of all, it is a good thing that the inspection simply reveals all the reports it makes so that everyone can see them. That is precisely the transparency we want with each other. Two is: if you look in the reports, see that those reports based on the observations made are also just described as follow-up monitoring. So it's not like someone else had to take action before the inspection did anything. The inspection itself has taken action and another has written about it. The next observation by the Consumers' Association is a sharp one, namely that a lot of new providers simply do not meet the requirements, and so we have a number of measures to take together to improve the monitoring of new providers. That's what we've done. And hence also what I have just described. On the list of Follow the Money I come back in the fourth block, because that was what the questions of the SP were about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u66	I think the IGJ issues the Annual Review every year, an annual report. I've been through that, but I didn't get that image all the way up. Am I reading that wrong and not getting it out? Is that right now? I'd like to ask the Minister. Is that right? Or, for example, could the annual picture gain strength if it is presented in the way in which the Consumers' Association presents it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u67	According to my reminder, the monitoring of new entrants has also returned to the Year Review of the inspection. But even more importantly, the inspection in a separate description has highlighted the vulnerability of the supervision of new entrants, given the legal capacity of the inspection to do so. A similar type of description has been made, for example, about the supervision of the providers in which you see a form of conflict of interest that is prohibited under the governance code, but is not adequately appointed in the law. If the quality is reversed, then the inspection can come in the legs, but if that has not yet happened, something that will naturally happen at some point if you withdraw money from the company and so on, then that is a fact that is not yet sufficient to deal with under the current law. Such a picture gives back the inspection, so that: we come across this in practice; we think we should act but we cannot. That's up to the Chamber, the Minister, the call, the description, to take action. The inspection does a number of things. I do call it the Year Review. Then one gives an overall picture of what one encounters in supervision. In addition, the inspection makes a description from time to time. For example, the need for the new youth aid providers to be involved in this new admissions monitoring is also reflected in a description of the inspection. In addition, she said: since the municipalities have gone over it, the number of providers is growing so incredibly fast that we no longer have a view of who they all are; they do not report and so we think that this too should be housed in the Wtza. And that has been the reason for us to come up with the letter of amendment. So, yeah, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u68	I would like to touch on Mrs Agema's question. I'm wondering, too. Now the Consumers' Association has co-ordinated and compared all these inspection reports. But is the Minister actually saying that we ourselves had already concluded that from all those inspection reports? In the end, perhaps the Minister would have come up with the idea that a lot of new healthcare providers do not comply with the rules. Is that right? And were the spokesmen informed that things were so bad with the new providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u69	A few things. In the case of individual cases, there is simply a set of measures that is proportionate to what the inspection finds. In the individual case it is the inspection itself that makes the observation and takes the action. Two is the analysis based on that 50. On the contrary, I found the publication of the Consumer Union very sharp. For me, it did help to dive back in. That's what I just said to Mrs Agema. She asked me, "What are you doing the moment you get a message like that?" Well, I was on vacation; I remember. At that time we had intensive contact with the inspection and with the department: boys, here something really is not going well, we really need to keep the whole way new entrants enter our system better under review. If you look at what the inspection itself has done in the analysis of the issue of the new entrants, you will see that the inspection, both in the Year Review and in a separate description itself, makes the analysis that it is not going well. That is why, with the sum of those observations, we are making changes in the supervision of new entrants, as you have seen. I remember from previous debates that I have had a question from Mr Van Gerven about this. He asked: are we going to introduce a licensing obligation now? That was before last summer. At that time, I said in his direction: we need to monitor more closely the new entrants, but a licensing obligation seems to me to be very aggravating for the administrative burden. I say now, and I am also open to that in the direction of the SP: no, given how new entrants are doing, I do think that we should move towards a licensing obligation. By the way, we are trying to avoid administrative burdens as much as possible, but it will not work without administrative burdens. In fact, I agree with what Mr Slootweg said about this, that this test should be carried out on a cross-compliance basis, prior to the start. That is why we will also have to introduce a licence requirement for smaller suppliers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u71	But then my question remains: how do we ensure that we see this ourselves in the future? We should not need such an organisation as the Consumers' Association to make that sharp signal, after which we will only take action and say: perhaps a licence requirement for new providers is also on the agenda. So I'm just looking for a little more time to find out how we can do this and how we can do it more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u72	But then I'd like to be very specific. The inspection shall monitor the level of the individual organisations. In addition, the inspection makes descriptions. They are always public and they also go to the Chamber and the Department. In addition, there is an annual picture of the inspection. In it the various observations are placed side by side. Based on those descriptions, we're taking action. So it's not like we're waiting for other organizations to see what we see. It is true that I found the publication of the Consumers' Union and the observations made extremely sharp. I have also indicated this in the direction of Mrs Agema. For me, it has indeed helped in the urgency. Of course, you see that all the time. Publications in a newspaper, for example, are a reason for you to ask a cabinet, but they can also be a reason for a cabinet to say: how is that actually happening, and how can these observations be made? So that third-party publications, in the system and the democratic system that we have, are an incentive to re-examine or look at things with an open mind, seems to me to be a very healthy thing. Nevertheless, you say that it should not depend solely on that? I understand that very well. So it is not only dependent on that, because regulators not only create an annual picture, but they also signal in our direction. That is what we have to relate to, because such a description goes to the Chamber, as does our policy response. Then it is your choice to ask us whether it is sufficient or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u73	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to ask the other one, because the second block, I think I've been talking about the 50 now. Then I'm gonna go over the questions about how inspection control works. The VVD asks how it is possible that a number of healthcare providers still fail to comply with that obligation: that is not really possible. I fully agree with that. If this is not met, proportionate measures will also be taken. That could be a penalty charge, for example. That will not happen immediately, because of course one gets the chance to fix a mistake first. But such a vog is a serious thing; you don't ask for it for nothing. A world of suffering can come from that, so it's very good to watch it very precisely. If this is not met, it must lead to a recovery measure. The inspection will see to that, too. Then sharing best practices. One reason for these transparency publications of the inspection is, of course, also to be transparent in what the inspection sees in its completeness. This concerns not only what is not going well, but also what is going well. There are certainly some very nice examples of this. I always hesitate to ask the inspection to do something with those beautiful examples in the sense of: put them on a stage and make them known. There are many other parties in the system for this, for example Vilans, as a knowledge institute in long-term care. Those parties have the task of bringing forward strong learning from each other and from fine examples. Of course, there are only a limited number of people working at the inspection. I would especially like to put these people on the supervisory task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u75	I understand. As you are suggesting, I have a picture of that too. But is this communicated with each other within the Ministry? Because other departments of the Ministry might be able to do something with that. This debate is about what is not going well and of course we must improve it, but I am always happy to give a nice place to what is going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u76	Agreed. The inspection and the department of course keep very close contact with each other. Often it is about specific issues. For example, we all want the implementation of the Health and Force Act, but we also know that implementation is quite tough. How are you supposed to relate to all the requirements that the inspection imposes? Then we are very consciously asking for the inspection to show us which institutions are doing well for each other and to give us these good examples so that we can make them known to the rest of the sector. Often it is us who make that known to the rest of the sector, but it can also be another institution, such as Vilans. But we do use the observations of the inspection; certainly. Then there is the phenomenon of the new and existing healthcare providers. Could you do the same observations with existing healthcare providers? In all kinds of forms and sizes, of course, there are also existing providers that work below the standards. Regular supervision is risk-oriented. A dashboard has been developed during the inspection with which you can check for many factors. On the basis of the observations, not only on paper, but also in practice, and on the basis of the notifications received at the national hotline, a selection is made of the providers who require the most care and attention. This is how the inspection deals with risk-based monitoring. Why wasn't Wmo surveillance invested in the IGJ? This lies in the choice made at the time of decentralisation to leave the supervision of the WMO to the municipalities, which is different from that of young people, because the choice has been made in the case of decentralisation to leave the supervision of the youth providers to the inspection, because this requires more specialist knowledge in the supervision. Of course, the Wmo-supervision, especially on the household support, was already invested in the municipality since 2007, so I say by heart, since the first Wmo. Since Wmo-supervision had already been invested there, Wmo-supervision stayed with the municipality in 2015. But learning from what was really worrying, especially on the side of protected housing, is that we should not only intensify that supervision, but we should also help municipalities to get that supervision in order. That's what we do all kinds of things for. Then we should ask the inspection to look over the shoulders of the municipality: how do you do that now? That's what's gonna happen. I've been thinking myself: shouldn't you tie that situation with the one for the youth? And yet, frankly, I find the improvements that municipalities have made in their supervision to be trustworthy. In addition, it concerns total capacity. We have 355 municipalities. In addition, the capacity of each municipality to monitor Wmo is so large that the inspection could not be matched. Inspection really is a special subject. I saw that myself when I was alderman. It is really complicated to set that up properly, independently and sharply, so that supervisors have a straight back and see exactly what is not going well. Setting up supervision is still quite a job. We will, of course, take advantage of the knowledge and experience of the inspection. I think the inspection will come back to the Chamber in the autumn with a picture. From time to time, the inspection makes a report for us, because we also want to know how well municipalities are doing. The inspection thus presents an image that shows how the supervision by the municipalities is currently organised. I think that's coming this fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u77	Could the Minister include the regional context in the analysis of the 355 municipalities? Because it sounds a bit like a toilet-end story to me, to put it this way, with all due respect to the ducks. We have a lot of smaller municipalities in the Netherlands, which do not always have that capacity. How critical are they of this whole fragile phenomenon in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u78	Municipalities also work together. Municipalities, for example, often work together in a GGD context. This is a little more independent than the municipalities themselves. And there is also a little more experience with supervision, because, for example, the supervision of childcare has been invested there. So that happens a lot, that it is organized under the flag of the GGD. So you also help small municipalities. Sometimes it just happens by making an agreement on it regionally, in a common arrangement or otherwise. For example, the municipality of Rotterdam does this. The municipality of Rotterdam is therefore the supervisor for Schiedam and a number of other surrounding municipalities. That's what happens. Regional cooperation is therefore, of course, very much needed, because it is not easy for every municipality, including small municipalities, to do so on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u79	I think it is very positive that in the autumn the inspection will give a picture of the supervision of the municipalities of the Wmo. But until now, I can only hear the Minister say things about capacity. Is the inspection going to tell us about the quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u81	How far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think I'm done with this block. I am with the questions asked by Mr Hijink in particular. They have just been supplemented by Mrs Agema and the point has also been reflected in other contributions. I believe that you, as a Chamber of Commerce, have also requested a letter in connection with the Pointeruisvoer. The question is whether all the measures as planned in the Wtza and announced in the profit letter are sufficient for all the observations made by Pointer. I am looking into that myself, because that was also my question internally. I really want to put all these situations together and I want to check whether what we intend to do is a genuinely adequate answer to all the observations that stand out here. We've talked about it before. This could piss you off. We have an economical way of dealing with the money we bring together for the care. As you say, money for care must also go to care. And that consciously, with the intention of taking advantage of it, the loopholes in the law are sought to make it better for themselves, does not fit in with the care. In particular, you are not only not doing justice to the tax payer and the contributor who brings that money together. Not only do you not do justice to the people who count on you when they need care, but you also do injustice to all those people who walk out of their asses every day, who do their utmost to handle the money that is available and do their job with great dedication. That is, of course, the vast majority of people in the care sector. For those people, too, we are bound to make sure that these kinds of rotten apples go out of the basket. So I would like to know, like you, whether our measures are adequate. Of course, we are going to have that debate. Before that debate, we shall forward that letter to the Chamber. Perhaps I should mention some of the measures that we have proposed and which, in my opinion, are a good answer to what you see. The question is whether it is complete, but at least they are a good answer to what you see. First of all, I would like to mention the obligation of notification for all new providers and the obligation of authorisation that is still to come. That's the first thing. The second is the Wet norming top incomes. We have seen that a number of e.g. constructions are deliberately established to avoid that Law norming top incomes. We're gonna tighten up that Top Income Standards Act. I think the law is done except for one hair. It goes to the Council of State and then it comes your way. We adapt the Top Income Standards Act to counteract the circumvention of that law. Three. This is due to the description that was published at the time of the Alliade report. We are taking measures to strengthen both internal supervision within healthcare organisations and external supervision of healthcare organisations. This concerns, among other things, those observations made by the inspection, which are said to be wrong; we should actually monitor them, but we see that the basis for that monitoring is lacking at the moment. We could only intervene if we see that what is happening here leads to care neglect and lower quality of care. That should be an independent basis for supervision. So we shouldn't really depend on the decreasing quality of care. Then it actually went exactly as it should: description of the inspection and announcement of the cabinet to change the law on that point. It's not easy at all, by the way. We asked the inspection to let us know by December at the latest how to formulate that basis, so that the inspection could also be better monitored. The latter touches on the debate that you have been anxious to have for some time, and so do I. That affects profit, so the room for the possibility of dividend distribution. In the inpatient care it is forbidden, but there are a number of evasive constructions. We're gonna close it. In the extramural care it is currently not subject to any condition. The cabinet has said that we are going to impose strict conditions, for example for the continuity of care and conditions for the quality of care. But we also said that you write black numbers, we all want them. Otherwise, a care institution will cease to exist fairly quickly. But that you can write double black numbers year after year can't really be, because the rates are not that wide. If there is, there's probably something going on. We will, of course, monitor this, both from the inspection and from the NZa. For them, this is one of the indicators that an institution can present. At present, this is not subject to any further conditions. So we come up with a set of cross-compliance conditions, including the possibility of limiting it and limiting it to a maximum. That would be the maximum profit that could possibly be paid out. So the conditions for continuity and quality must be met, and this is subject to a maximum. Once again, I have already indicated the direction in which I think. As far as I am concerned, double figures are not possible, certainly not for several years in a row. In this case, we have asked the supervisory authorities not only the inspection, but also the NZa...... to advise us on how best to formulate these conditions so that they also provide a sufficient basis for supervision. We will return to your room in December. I therefore believe that I have answered at least enough those questions that have to do with them for the moment, in the knowledge that there will still be a lot of debate about them. I think that's right. Then I guess I just didn't answer one more question. That is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question: what are the inspection instruments? What are the action options when the inspection finds that something is not right? The lightest form is more the advisory function. These are the informal interventions: consulting, stimulating, addressing, making an improvement plan with deadlines, talking to the board. Even tighter supervision can still be seen in this context. Then you have administrative measures. That's an order, a lead, a penalty charge, a charge under control and an administrative fine. Then you have disciplinary measures. This concerns the filing of a disciplinary complaint, which could then lead to the deletion of someone from the register. So he's just not supposed to care anymore. Or a lecture for the College of Medical Supervision. And then there's the criminal side. That's a transit, a report, to the state's attorney's office. So it's a pretty comprehensive toolbox. And yet every now and then the inspection comes up with things that she says: we actually want that instrument in the toolbox as well. I'm inclined to always say that's what we're going to do. I want an inspection that has teeth and an inspection that can take place on observations that are simply not right. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u83	Period. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We will proceed quickly with a very short second term from the side of the Chamber. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, congratulations to the Minister for his birthday. We're not gonna make it too late! I see a minister defending the inspection to fire and to sword, and that is certainly admirable. But what doesn't bother me is that I get the impression that the inspection still doesn't have enough capacity. In 2010, the tolerance agreement increased the inspection budget by half. I wonder what the Minister's thoughts are on this. We see such a small inspection that has so many tasks, that has to visit so many institutions and go for so many signals. At the same time, we are seeing another great windfall in the minister's ministry this year. Then I wonder what his thoughts are about the capacity and the desirability of increasing capacity or research. I would like to hear the Minister again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u85	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I am looking at Mrs Laan, but she too, like Mr Slootweg, does not need a second term. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen...? That was a very short second term from the Chamber. I think the Minister can answer Mrs Agema's question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u86	It is a fair question and it is also a question which I should like to discuss regularly with the Inspector-General, because as a society, as a Chamber and as a minister, we demand quite a lot of inspection. We're actually leaning on it, because they have to oversee on our behalf all those laws that we're passing here with each other. That's a hell of a job indeed. You have to choose well in that. I told you, we have 1.2 million people in care, and of course you can't put an inspector behind those people all day to see if they're doing it right. Besides, you shouldn't want that at all. You do not want that at all, but you do want an inspection that is sufficiently detailed. That's a regular conversation I have. In recent times, new staff have been added. An extension of the inspection has, of course, also taken place, both in the previous year and in the previous year. It's just a periodic conversation. I am more than willing to let your Chamber know that. What is the capacity of the inspection and how do we estimate that is sufficient? And how do we periodically keep our finger on the pulse to determine the extent of the formation of the inspection? I think it is just right to let Mrs Agema know that in all transparency and I think the rest of the Chamber appreciates that. I will see if I can do that for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u87	Thank you. This commitment has brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-8.u88	I wish the Minister a very happy birthday and close the meeting.
