ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on Own-initiative Act proposal 34650, Proposal for a law of Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok amending the General Law on equal treatment in order to clarify the prohibition of unauthorized discrimination on grounds of sex, i.e. the Law clarifying legal status of transgender persons and intersex persons. Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Özütok, I would like to welcome you to the Upper House. I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators of the legislative proposal for the work done to bring this initiative law to the First Chamber. That brings me to the substantive examination of this bill. Ideally, regardless of this bill, transgender and intersex individuals must be able to live in freedom and security in this country. They deserve good protection. However, the question is whether this bill effectively contributes to good protection or whether it is just a paper tiger. Equality between men and women, and therefore of gender, is a Western core value that is clear enough of itself. In this context, I would like to quote Pim Fortuyn, who, among other things, described freedom of expression as one of the core standards and values of modernity as follows: "The modernity accepts the equality of the sexes and of the sexual orientation and treats everyone according to the principle of law: equal monks, equal hoods, without respect for the individual, without looking at the social, economic, religious or philosophical position, without looking at the sex or sexual orientation." This definition, which is very valuable to me, is sufficiently met by the current General Law on Equal Treatment. That conclusion also draws the Council of State in its comments on this initiative law. According to the Council of State, there is strictly no legal need to add the grounds gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression to the law. There are no misunderstandings about the broad interpretation of the concept of sex either from case-law or legal practice. It's in violation of the law system. Moreover, the terms used are not sufficiently clearly explained, which can lead to confusion. That is clear and justified criticism from the Council of State. What does the relevant target group have in practice for the legislative change? Is he really better protected by mentioning these concepts explicitly in the law? The answer is no. This is mainly a masquerade of politically correct activism. Because the real problems of the target group are not mentioned: the threat to this target group by Islamization. Not a word of that is reflected in this bill. To get back to the quote of Fortuyn: in his discussion of the core standards and values of modernity, Fortuyn put this very clearly. I quote again: 'It goes without saying that in the cultural areas and states where Islam is dominant, it is somewhat different, to put it euphemistically.' And: "From our point of view, that of modernity -- that of modernity -- much of what Islam and its culture conveys is objectionable or totally retarded." This rejection and backwardness of Islam, mentioned by Fortuyn more than 16 years ago, is now reflected in our urban neighbourhoods. This way, in the mosques, undisturbed homophobia can be preached. No mosque has been locked yet. This applies for example to the As-Soennah mosque, here in The Hague, where hatesheik imam Fawaz Jneid preached: "Sodomites" meant homosexuals "don't deny that homosexuality is a perversion and that it is filthy and unclean." That is so, even if the laws across the world agree that it is lawful and legitimate." Thus hatesheik Fawaz Jneid here in the mosque in The Hague. In the Amsterdam Poldermoskee, the Amsterdam D66 council member Yassmine El Ksaihi, as chairman of this mosque, stated that homosexuality is a sin in Islam. Also, the American imam Khalid Yasin, who wants to punish homosexuality, called AIDS an American invention and spoke about the world domination of Islam. And then the transgenders, who are not safe in their own neighborhood and even in their own home. Transgenders who are being harassed by Islamic street thugs from their own homes are known as poignant examples. Like last year Marieke from Den Bosch, who was victim of verbal and physical violence on the street as well as intimidating actions around her home. According to local broadcasting, the victim could not report this to the police, but only a report. I quote the local broadcaster: "But since there are multiple offenders and Marieke has no clear description or evidence, there can be no report either." Eventually Marieke was forced to move to another neighborhood and the Islamic street thug, who was responsible for this intimidation, was not tackled. They could just keep doing what they wanted in that neighborhood undisturbed. The world turned upside down. With this amendment of law, a victim of anti-transgender violence, such as Marieke, is not helped. Instead, such victims should be able to report more easily, regardless of the possibilities for detection. Last April, COC chairman Tanja Ineke noted the following, and I quote an article on nu.nl: "She signals a kind of convenience in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then you hear: It's hard to prove, so we don't go looking for it either. Of course, that's not possible, the police are supposed to be doing a good job of detectives." That is why the question to the Minister: what does the cabinet intend to do to improve the means of reporting these victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u4	I see an interruption: Mrs. Vink?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u5	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't know if I'd bring this up. However, an Amsterdam D66 council member is mentioned with name and name, so for the purposes of reporting, I would like to point out that the council member in question has very often indicated how she stands about equal rights for all. This was not really a question, but I wanted to make it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u6	Okay, I'll take note of that. As I take note of the quote she used earlier. In the case of violence against persons with an Ihbti background, according to several investigations, suspects with a Moroccan-Islamic background have been overrepresented. According to the police report entitled Anti-gay violence in the Netherlands in 2014 in the event of incidents of which the suspect is known, Moroccans are almost ten times more likely to suspect. According to the UvA report entitled If they don't touch me, 62% of the perpetrators of physical violence against homosexuals in Amsterdam are of non-Dutch descent, and in there Moroccans with 36% are the largest group. Given the overrepresentation of suspects of anti-lhbti violence with a Moroccan-Islamic background and the rejection, repression and hatred of lhbti in Islam, it is the question for the proposers why they keep their eyes closed to these dangers of Islamization. Why do they not take the view that, for the protection of our values, including living freely as a transgender, there is a need to combat Islamization? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This bill fits into the same category as the rainbow zebra paths: it is apparently very sympathetic, but a completely meaningless gesture. It is very easy to build such a rainbow zebra path in the middle of a shopping mall, but no municipality places them at the place where these rainbow zebra paths would belong in terms of signal: in front of a mosque. This bill does not help any transgender or intersex person. With de-islamisation, more security and better reporting possibilities, yes. That is where the PVV chooses, not this unnecessary legislation. Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mrs Vink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our group also congratulates the initiators of this proposal. When this proposal is adopted, the General Law on Equal Treatment will be amended. It follows that the prohibition on gender-based discrimination contained therein is widely understood. However, for transgender and intersex individuals, they are often confronted with misunderstandings, bullying and discrimination, at work and in personal life. Figures show, for example, that transgender and intersex persons are more often than average disabled or unemployed, that a large percentage feel lonely and do not dare to be themselves, and that a high percentage face threats or violence. All this does not fit in a society where the same fundamental rights apply to all. The initiators made the proposal to make extra clear to whom the law applies, in order to strengthen their social position. You will not be surprised that the D66 Group is in favour of this. However, we still have some questions about the integrated approach and public awareness of the proposed legislative change. Because the bill wasn't just drafted. Among other things, the Human Rights College and the European Commissioner for Human Rights have already called for the law to be made more explicit in the past. Several neighbouring countries have also arranged this. The previous Minister for the Interior and the current Minister for the Interior support the proposal. There is therefore a broader support for this, strictly legal, non-necessary proposal. But explication in the law can also contribute to how people judge what is or is not justified. The objective seems to the D66 Group that everyone can be themselves and that, for example, discrimination decreases. We do believe, however, that, in addition to the proposed legislative amendment, an integrated approach is needed. The D66 Group therefore welcomes the Emancipation Note published last year, which also focuses on increased social security and acceptance of transgender and intersex individuals. Our question to the initiators and the minister is whether, in addition to the actions already under way, they see further actions that can contribute to the society where everyone can be themselves. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about the familiarity of the proposal, if it is adopted. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, awareness of the change is an important factor in ensuring that the goal is achieved. We are therefore pleased that the National Association against Discrimination has expressed its intention to bring the legislative proposal to the fore when it comes into force. Our question to the Minister is whether the cabinet also intends to do so. Are there any plans to make the present legislative amendment widely available when this proposal is adopted? As has already been pointed out, our group has a positive attitude towards this proposal. After an extensive examination in the Lower House and after receiving the statement of answer, the questions we still have to address to achieve the objective behind this proposal: a society where everyone can be themselves. Because fundamental rights apply to everyone. We are therefore looking forward to the reaction of the proposers and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Vink. Mr Schalk has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Vink pointed out that the Council of State had also indicated that it was not really necessary to include the problem at issue in a legislative proposal. Isn't it a bit of a devaluation of the law when we bring in all kinds of things that aren't actually useful or necessary? Well, you can still talk about useful, but at least you need to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u11	Thank you for the question. In any case, the proposed legislative amendment is certainly useful, especially in a society in which the group in question still has a great deal to do with discrimination. The amendment also ensures that this is clarified. But a change of law or law is not only clear when lawyers agree on what is meant. A law isn't clear until it's out of the question. And it is not for nothing that several people, the Human Rights College and also the European Commissioner for Human Rights, have called for the amendment of the law. So no, I do not agree with Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u12	My follow-up question would then be: does that mean that other groups, who may also experience discrimination, should also try to bring about such a legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u13	Look, it doesn't say which groups or what they're referring to right now. But when it comes to a number of groups that have the same type of discrimination, it could be looked at. But that really depends on those specific groups, so I wouldn't want to say anything about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you again, Mrs Vink. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the initiative legislative proposal of the Dutch MPs Bergkamp cum suis, which amends the General Law on Equal Treatment and makes the legal protection against the unauthorized distinction........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The initiators want to eliminate possible differences of interpretation about the applicability of the law. The legislative proposal does not seek an extension but a clarification of it, by stressing once again that the General Law applies equal treatment to the full spectrum of variations in the grounds of discrimination "sex" so that it is clear to everyone that this law also provides protection against the unlawful discrimination based on each individual's gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. Madam President. In this house we discussed in 2013 the bill 33351, Amendment mention of gender in birth certificate. I also had the honour to speak on behalf of my group. I am sure you are still very clear about what I said at the time. But you will forgive me if I plagiarize myself here and there: I hope that half of the Members present today will hear my speech as new, because they did not have a seat in the Senate at that time. I don't want to remember the initiators either. In the debate at that time I referred again to the Metamorphosen of Ovidius. In fact, Juno and Jupiter are always bickering about who loves more: men or women? Juno blames Jupiter for his infidelity, he defends himself by saying "I quote from Mrs d'Hane-Scheltema's unsurpassed translation: "With you the lust in love is greater than with men. She calls it not, and then they decide Tiresias To ask what he thinks: he knew both kinds of love. 'Cause once he had two big snakes in the leafy green Layers to mate, with his stick given a hard punch, Was then very wonderfully man turned into woman and You should have lived like this for seven years. When he was eight autumns later The same snakes saw back, he shouted, "If one stroke can make That he will change it because of you, to the contrary. Then I'll hit again...' And with a hefty blow against it. Those two snakes he got back to his old man's body. He now, as an arbitrator attracted to that jest debate, Gives Jupiter right, and Juno stabbed it deep. Thus one says, more than fits such a joke: she has The eyes of her judge punished with eternal darkness. The godfather, however, for no deity can do the deeds From other gods still recalled............................................................................................................................ Seeing the future and softening its punishment through this honor." Why do I quote this passage? Transsexuals I use the term convenience for both transgenders and intersex individuals are of all times. For centuries they have been misunderstood, ignored, persecuted and humiliated, and that still happens in large parts of the world every day, to this day, even in the Netherlands. Only in recent decades has there been a development in this part of the world in which they are no longer denied the right to live according to their true sexual identity, and not their biological sex, but, on the contrary, recognised and protected. They also deserve the same protection under the law as any other person. The Minister underlined this in her letter of 12 December 2018. I quote her with agreement: "For the cabinet, it is important that everyone can be visible in the Netherlands, as is explicitly stated in the coalition agreement 2017-2021. The cabinet's aim is to respect and provide space for diversity in our society. The principle of equal treatment laid down in Article 1 of the Constitution also implies that everyone must be able to be visible to themselves. The General Law on Equal Treatment lays down detailed rules for the development of this principle, inter alia, for industrial relations and for services." We can add that many international conventions also prohibit discrimination based, inter alia, on sex. It also follows from case law that an unlawful distinction between sex must also be understood as an unlawful distinction on the basis of transgendering and intersexuality. Strictly speaking, it has already been mentioned before, so this bill is not necessary. The initiators themselves explicitly say that they do not seek to extend the functioning of the law, but only to clarify it, so that the law itself makes as little misunderstanding as possible about what is meant by the term "sex," in other words, about the scope of the concept of "sex." Madam President. In general, my group is not in favour of symbol legislation, nor will it soon give its vote on superfluous legislation. But in this particular case, we do not see the meaning of clarifying the concept of'sex' as superfluous. The legislative proposal may not be necessary, but it is desirable for the law itself to make explicit that transsexuals are explicitly covered by the protection of the non-discrimination clause on grounds of sex. I would like to say that, if it had been up to my group, this bill would have become law by September 2018. After all, we proposed that it should be considered as a hammer piece. However, other groups wanted to make a contribution, and that is how we are going to deal with this bill in plenary today, almost six months later. You will therefore not be surprised that my group would like to thank not only the initiators for this proposal, but will also agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u16	Thank you. Oh, Mrs. Lokin, will you stand still? Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u17	I'll be running a little sooner in the future if I have a question, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about whether the gender aspect should be made clearer in the law. I wonder if that is the case, because it is precisely the legislation that does not explain what the various terms mean and what they contain. The diversity expression isn't actually explicit. So you're still dealing with a very diffuse word machine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u18	No, this clearly extends the concept of'sex': not only women and men are understood, but also intersex persons, transgenders and so on. We think that clarification is desirable. It may not be necessary to take into account the case law so far, but it is desirable to include equal treatment in the General Law, which also covers industrial relations and services.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u19	But with the terminology that is used, without further explanation, it remains very diffuse, isn't it? What's the ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u20	Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What Mrs Lokin is saying is that there would be a clarification of transgender and a few other words, but that is precisely not included in the law. However, it is included in the explanatory memorandum and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u22	Also in the title of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u23	Yes, indeed, in the title of the law, but imagine that the power of law gets that chance, then I think that people who resort to the General Law on equal treatment do not look at the title of the law, but at the General Law on equal treatment. It does not explain what is meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u24	This legislative proposal defines the extension, inter alia in the explanatory memorandum, which forms part of the legal history. So this clarification is clear to the judge as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u25	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u26	Yes, I very much agree with Mrs Lokin. However, I think that this legal history is very far away for a lot of people, especially the citizens, in this country. That is why it would have been my idea to make it as explicit as possible, so that everyone who reads the law understands what is meant. But that's a different angle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u27	I assume that, in particular, entrepreneurs and service providers are looking at what is stated in the General Law on equal treatment, including on the basis of gender. This is explicitly a discriminatory distinction, an unauthorized distinction based on sex. My group therefore considers it to be quite clear that this includes not only men and women, but also transgenders and transsexuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u28	Thank you again, Mrs Lokin. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators of this bill, who have written this proposal with the aim of facilitating life for transgenders and intersex individuals. Although Article 1 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, political orientation, race, gender or any other ground, we note that transgenders and intersex persons are above average affected by discrimination, exclusion, harassment, disability and study failure. There is currently no law in the Netherlands explicitly prohibiting discrimination against them. The group, which is estimated to be between 130,000 and 1 million Dutch, has a lot to do with discrimination. And that estimate I just mentioned is not for nothing very spacious, because some of these people are not coming out of the closet. Probably because they're afraid of that foreland. Declarations of discrimination and violence are limited to a few dozen per year. Not because discrimination and violence hardly occur. I wish. According to interest groups, thousands of incidents occur every year. When this law is published in the Official Journal, there is no longer any doubt; transgender and intersex persons are sure that the law protects them and for employers, schools and companies it is crystal clear that this form of discrimination is prohibited. Just to acknowledge that not everyone can or wants to be placed in the hut "man" or "woman," this bill is good. In addition, the Netherlands has a title to defend, or to increase. After all, we once had that leading role. We were the first country where people of an equal gender were allowed to marry each other. Now, however, we have fallen out of the top 10 of the Rainbow Index. Several times we are shocked by events where people are attacked for who they are and even beaten up. Over the past year, 43% of transgender people in the Netherlands experienced violence and 40% suffered discrimination at work. People are denied a job or even fired because of their identity. Clarifying that this law also protects transgender and intersex individuals from discrimination is therefore not an unnecessary luxury. In this sense, the proposers and the Minister can already see that the SP will wholeheartedly support this proposal. But I still have a few questions to ask, because we are used here to adopting a bill to solve a problem. And is a problem being solved here or are there any problems remaining after adoption of the proposal that can still be resolved? The authors themselves acknowledge that this proposal is not really an addition, because Article 1 of the Constitution states that discrimination based on sex and gender characteristics is prohibited. Can the proposers explain again why this proposal is really a useful and necessary addition to the existing one? What makes the proposal not to be considered superfluous? In addition, the initiators point out that intersex individuals and transgenders have to do with harassment and exclusion, with greater risk of disability and unemployment and with study failure. The question then arises: does this proposal now contribute to solving this problem? Does incorporating this proposal into the Equal Treatment Act make it less bullied? Do people feel more recognized and less excluded? Does this make you dare to come out of the closet? Is this improving their position on the labour market? The SP would very much like to see the adoption of this proposal also resolve or improve a number of practical issues. I would like to raise some of these practical issues here. For example, think of all the times you have to tick a booth to indicate whether you are a man or a woman. Confronting those who at that time have no answer and useless information for their recipient. Now take that passport or ID. In this you expect information that can contribute to the identification of a person. No wonder that's where we find the length of that person. The hair colour and the eye color were also mentioned in it before, but you can almost change it daily, making that information useless. So we have now come to the conclusion that we cannot simply be classified as men or women. And is an X in that passport the solution? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Waarom zouden we?]] What does an X add? It merely emphasizes that that person in question may be in transition. So what? Mr. Chairman. What does the proposers and the Minister think of the proposal that the indication of sex should be completely deleted into identity documents? Why should we wait for developments in this area internationally, as proposed by the Ministry of Justice? Australia, Nepal and Canada would like to put an X in the passport. The next step is to completely drop that gender mark or that X, as it has become meaningless. I'd like a reaction to this. Finally, I would like to talk to you about the waiting lists in the care of transgenders. It's often a year and a half. This is a problem, especially for children and young people, because they do not wait for their growth or development, but their treatment is made difficult. A short waiting list means a world of difference to them. Think of the potential dangers that lie ahead of them when, for example, depression strikes. Although I realise that we should not use words that are greater than necessary, I suspect that with shorter waiting lists we can literally save lives. I would like to hear what the authors are thinking about this and, above all, I would like to hear from the Minister what steps she is going to take to address this kind of practical problem. Mr. Chairman. As always, the SP is looking forward to the reply of the proposers and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators on their work on this bill, a proposal that not only strengthens the basis for combating discrimination against people with transgender or intersex personality, but also contributes to a social and legal recognition of their gender identity or expression. Our appreciation goes also to Keklik Yücel and Liesbeth van Tongeren, who in an earlier phase were among the initiators. Mr. Chairman. Most of us have grown up knowing that you can divide people into women and men. This is how it seems arranged in nature, but anyone who looks further knows that this is not so clear in the biological world. Of about half a percent of people, this is not so clear on the traditional scale and in addition there is an almost equal group that does not feel at home in the gender that was established at birth: people with the outer characteristics of man or woman, who in turn feel more woman or man or vice versa. Society doesn't know what to do with it. We sometimes feel uncomfortable and slow to act. After all, thinking in either man or woman is deeply rooted in society and also in our regulations. In my life, I've filled out hundreds of forms for all kinds of purposes. And almost always, for some totally unclear reasons, you have to check whether you are husband or wife. I myself have never come across a form that had a box "don't know/different" or "not applicable" as a fill-in option. That's probably not for unwillingness, but mostly because we don't know any better. Actually, I should say, I didn't know any better. Because scientific research shows that the intricate interplay of hormones, chromosomes and anatomy that determines our sexual characteristics leads to multiple appearances much more often than thought. Now the lack of a filling-in option on a form when taking out household insurance is perhaps still possible, although I am also going to ask the Minister to do something about it, but there are also more serious situations. The explanatory statement rightly refers to the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights. It shows that stereotypical images in the care, for example, do not respect rights such as physical integrity and self-determination of intersex individuals in medical protocols. Apart from the fact that there are also countries where intersex is considered a condition and that transgender is often misunderstood and neglected. In our own country there is still a big difference in how doctors deal with intersex and there are still no necessary surgeries or waiting lists. In any case, it is understandable that the legislator should take action. Not that legislation solves all issues, but it does provide a legal basis for guaranteeing fundamental rights and a better starting position to develop your own gender identity. This also responds to a wide-ranging international appeal from the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and the UN to protect intersex individuals in national law and to explicitly prohibit discrimination. My group supports that, but there are still a few questions. As far as my group is concerned, the social need to strengthen the legal position of transgender people and intersex individuals is uncontested. But is there also a legal need? Strictly speaking, according to the Council of State, current legislation and case law provide sufficient grounds to counter any form of unwanted discrimination based on sex. The initiators recognize that, too. My group can go along with their reasoning that if you do not write down anywhere that gender characteristics, gender identity or gender expression should not be a reason for discrimination, the unknown remains. Especially in the case of a subject where ignorance and incomprehension go hand in hand, it would be very good for the legal history if the initiators in this Chamber, too, once again clearly express the significance they attach to the creation of this legal basis. Our question to the initiators and also to the cabinet is: how else? The proposed amendment to Article 2 is worded as follows: "Distinction based on sex shall include discrimination based on sex characteristics, identity, expression" et cetera. The use of the word "partly" in the legal text indicates that the following list is not exhaustive or exhaustive. Can the initiators state again why they have chosen this form and what gender-related features they have in mind in this context, so that we can also record this in the legal history? This bill is intended to clarify and help to ensure that the Netherlands is back on track internationally. Now, for my group, international rankings do not lead in advance to change the law. However, since the initiators so designate this in the amended explanatory statement, it raises the question whether this form of clarifying legislation actually complies with international standards, or whether it requires further clarification in more areas in the law or the Constitution. Perhaps even more important is that man-woman thinking is deeply embedded in our society and regulation. Do the Minister and the initiators see this change as sufficient, or do they see other laws and regulations that should or could be adapted in the near future? I'd like a response from the initiators and the minister. I told you before: on a lot of forms, you have to fill out what your sex is, often unnecessary. My group is therefore asking the cabinet to make a broader effort to prevent and prevent such unnecessary registrations of sex. Finally. The law doesn't communicate itself. Does the Minister intend, with this amendment, to further demonstrate to society the equal position of transgender and intersex persons in order to strengthen their social position? If so, how could the Minister do that? If not, why not? Will the Minister also make an international effort to specify, for example, the European anti-discrimination directive, which is also known by my group as the 'Outwards Directive', with a ban on discrimination based on intersex or transgender? As always, we look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal on a sensitive subject, as evidenced by documents from the public debate. Of course you could say: I only deal with the legislative aspect. Then you could be done with this bill pretty soon. But that does no justice to our work in this First Chamber, where reflection is a highly valued good. Moreover, the SGP group's opinion is not value-free, but based on biblical values and standards. This means, in concrete terms, that in my work in this Chamber I always try to choose the right words, knowing that the biblical values and norms are not understood by anyone, or understood, or accepted by anyone. I choose my words with care, out of involvement with people who are actually struggling with their deepest feelings about, for example, issues such as gender and gender. Having said this, on behalf of my group, I would like to raise five points. First of all, I would like to place this subject in the tension between the present ideology and my beliefs. My group has the strong impression that the amendment of the General Law on Equal Treatment is motivated by the fact that gender ideology has been given wings worldwide. A simple example: a few years ago my colleague Van Dijk was from the First Chamber at the United Nations in New York. He was struck by the disproportionately high attention given to this theme in the various UN reports. There was much more attention to that than to the many times larger group of people who are persecuted because of their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ as Saviour. Why is there so disproportionate attention to one group and is there hardly any attention to the other? Anyway, in the perspective of humanity's history, the new thinking about gender diversity is just a shaky first step in the dark of the future. Let's take a look at that history. For me, I believe that God created heaven and earth about 6,000 years ago. In the Bible it is very clear in the book of Genesis, where it is written about the creation of man: "Man and woman He created them." Then it says, "Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife, and they shall both be one flesh." The Bible exquisitely shows how God intended it. So I am speaking here of the Bible, with a view about marriage and sexuality that will not be a surprise. For the SGP this is a consistent and fixed line of thinking. This order of creation has been accepted for many centuries and accepted as commonplace. Only a few decades have there been more attention to the new phenomenon of gender diversity and more and more room for it. A second aspect that calls attention is the difference between gender and gender. Sex means, just for convenience and shortness, the biological sex. The theory of gender mainstream uses the word "gender," again for short, for the social or psychological experience of one's own sex. When the biological aspect falls away and especially the social and psychological experience is led, it becomes a very diffuse construct, so diffuse that there is actually no longer any level to be reached. Because if the experience is leading, then where is the consistency, so I ask the proposers. How often can someone choose a new experience? Or should it be a choice for life? And if so, why? By the way, how does the government view this? What consequences could this have, for example, for the system of registration as a citizen? How does this relate to personal and family law in Book 1 of the Civil Code? And what if you don't feel a man or a woman or either? Is that problematic or not? In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the proposers write on their "point of departure that the concept of sex should be regarded as a continuum in which each person offers equal protection against discrimination to women/men and something in addition to that, between or in relation to women'. What does "something besides, between or opposite" mean? Can the proposers give an explanation? And besides, how far can that go with "something besides it, between it or opposite it"? What if, for example, I feel something completely different from a human being? How are we supposed to deal with that? A third point of attention is consistency. After all, if we so explicate this with the sex of people, then what about other aspects? Let me take a trip, where I hope everyone realizes that I'm not doing that to ridicule things. Why did someone like Mr. Ratelband question his age? How do we look at his deep desire to be twenty years younger? Is that a situation that we now regard as unreal, but which will soon be a possibility? I use this trip to make it clear that what I feel and how I feel or what my experience is, are fragile elements that can go in all directions. How do the proposers interpret this element of consistency? Can a law be based on a distinction between subjective feelings rather than on objective criteria? And what is the government's view on this point? Moreover, this point of consistency is also addressed in the question of where gender ideology leads. I deliberately mention two examples that I did not come up with myself. The first example is about athletes. I mentioned them in the written submissions, because the authors themselves made a reference to them in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u34	When Mr Schalk first used the word "gender ideology," I hesitated to ask, but he now uses that word for the second time. My question is where the concept of 'ideology' comes from in this case because, as far as I know, there is quite a scientific consensus that we are talking about scientifically established forms of human beings, and not only human beings, which show that this biological dichotomy is not at all as self-evident as it does appear. But that's not all I care about. I am more concerned with why Mr Schalk is using the word 'ideology' and not simply based on the scientific knowledge of the present. I could also ask that question about his belief in a 6,000-year-old creation. There is also some other scientific consensus on this. But what matters to me now is the word "ideology."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u35	Thank you for this question. I have indeed used the word "genderideology" because I have a very strong impression that it is a strong movement. Perhaps I could have called it "gender movement," which is actually manifesting itself mainly over the past decades. There are ideals behind that. That's why I called it an ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u36	Has Mr Schalk taken note of a lot of scientific research in the field of gender, in which it is no longer about ideology at all, but about scientifically established knowledge about gender?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u37	I haven't read all kinds of scientific books and such, but I've looked a bit into the question where the idea of this gender mainstreaming comes from. I think of the Jogjakarta principles, among other things. It is about the idea that this is a new phenomenon that will have to be carried widely. Yeah, you can see that happening all over there. That is why I have indeed called it an ideology, as I do indeed have a belief. It was also mentioned a moment ago. If you believe that the earth and humanity were created about 6,000 years ago, you could say that at least we have lived almost 6,000 years without this very strong gender idea. Let me put it this way. There are also people who don't believe that. They say: no, humanity is many times older. And then you could say that the aspect of when that payoff started is much smaller by percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u38	Mr. Lintmeijer. Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u39	Or perhaps only now is recognized and most of the time has remained hidden. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u40	I would like to return to Mr Schalk's question on consistency. We also have freedom of religion in this country, of course. In addition, it could also be possible for someone to switch, for someone to say: I believe this now. Then it is not until death, then there is also a change. Can you reflect on how this relates to the question of consistency in this domain?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u41	Actually, I'd like to try that. That's a little complicated. Religion is what a man believes. And faith is something other than who you originally are. So in that sense, I think that's a rather complicated question. The question of religion in this area I will come across again in a moment. Mrs Fiers, you do not have to run away immediately, because it is a very interesting debate. I will come to that in a moment, but in a slightly different context. If I want to do you justice, I have to say that sometimes I love it when someone changes religion, which is when someone becomes a Christian who wasn't before. But it may also be that someone is a Christian and then renounces it or chooses another religion. My position is then that I very much like to stay in conversation with that person and try to make clear why that Christian religion is so good and delicious to my firm conviction, even for that person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u42	I understand that you think so, as a person and as a party, but you are asking here in the context of this bill to reflect on consistency. In doing so, I interpret your words in such a way that you say: I assume that you will have to do so once in your life, otherwise we will all have problems with legislation. Then I ask you to reflect on my example that such a thing can also occur with religion. And then I do not hear you say that this creates all kinds of inconsistency problems. So I would like to ask if you could comment on that. I get that the moment someone moves the other way for you, you're gonna try to convince that person. But that was not the basis of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u43	Then I'm gonna go back to the inconsistency I mentioned. I'll be a little more specific. I've pointed that in the direction of what I feel, how I feel, what my experience is. And those are not my words, but I take them from the explanatory statement and the like. I said that's a very fragile element. So that will be your benchmark for something so important that we want to embed it in a law, so to speak. The moment you take something as subjective as your feeling as a guide, you have to realize that that can change very easily. That can change every day. We understand that by now people can register as women while they are born men. But imagine you'll feel different a while later. That's what I meant by this inconsistency when there's something as subjective as your gut. Well, I think that's a little different from your beliefs. This is about how you were born, and I realize that intersex people, for example, may have doubts about that. I have also stated in my text that I am trying to have an eye for people who are involved in this or who feel that they are in the wrong body. Well, those people will need our eyes and our mercy. It's not about that. But now we're gonna lay down in the law that you can change something because you feel differently. That could be different in a few years, or in a few days or a few weeks. Maybe you'll regret it. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u44	Mr. Schalk, would you like to finish your answer a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u45	I'm sorry, but it's a very important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u46	I understand. Mrs. Fiers, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u47	Finally. I note that we differ on this because, as far as I am concerned, this consistency that you are asking for in this legislative proposal is equally true of freedom of faith. But we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u48	Then I'll pick up where I left off. I have to repeat something, because not everyone remembers that I was going to touch on a point that I didn't think of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u49	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u50	That was the example of the athletes. I mentioned them in the written submissions, because the authors themselves made an annotation of them in the explanatory memorandum. Take the man who feels like a woman. For example, what is the situation with women's swimming, skating or running? What if this man who feels like a woman wins? Or is it a matter for women to swim where there is a legitimate distinction? Suppose I don't want to call myself man or woman, but with an "X," am I not allowed to participate at all? The second example is a NOS announcement of 24 January on the forthcoming Provincial State elections: "Political parties are less and less often mentioning the gender of their candidates on the electoral list. Often with good intentions, for example because they want to be gender neutral." That same NOS message shows that an organization like Voice on a Woman does not like this again, because you do not know if it is a man or a woman and only 31% of the MPs are women. By the way, there's 100% here. On the other hand, the same organization Vote for a Woman wants a third option added. Besides the "M" and the "V" there should be an "X." In that case 31% is not crazy at all, but consistency is then completely lost. I come to a fourth point. The initiators have chosen to add a separate paragraph to Article 1 of the General Law on equal treatment for one subject, but with that they are opening the way to explain other aspects as well? Think of religions. I just mentioned it. There are forces in our society that strongly question certain religions, especially if they are orthodox. Do these religious movements now have to work to get a place in the General Law on Equal Treatment? Or think of the word "race." From the KOREL Committee I have sometimes understood that Antilleans often feel disadvantaged when they come to live in this part of the Kingdom from the Caribbean. Are we going to give them a place in a separate paragraph in Article 1? These are actually two examples that I could have mentioned just now when I was talking to Mrs Vink. Or should we approach the interpretation of gender identity differently from the other elements on which equal treatment is demanded, and why? Can the authors of the bill explain that further? Isn't this an unauthorized distinction on one aspect of being human? How does the government view this? Finally, my fifth point. The Council of State states that this bill is contrary to the legal system, because it has been chosen not to specify the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, of the General Law on Equal Treatment. The Council of State has also indicated that neither case-law nor legal practice give rise to misunderstandings about the concept of "sex." It is striking that in the explanatory memorandum, the applicants also state that "there is no need, strictly legally speaking, to add the grounds gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression to the General Equal Treatment Act'. The applicants also indicate that no or few issues have been notified to the College of Human Rights or to the courts. My simple last question is therefore: how does the government look at legislation that is not necessary and where terminology is also legally unclear? I, too, look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating the authors of this initiative proposal. People's representatives who make proposals for change and do not wait for action from the cabinet deserve appreciation according to the PvdA Group. This proactive approach increases the recognition and representative role of politics. First of all, let's get some facts straight. I've worked in care for years, but I was somewhat surprised by the large numbers in the preparation of this bill. According to the research titled Becoming who you are from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the Netherlands knows about 50,000 transgender persons and 85,000 people with intersex conditions. So we're talking about a significant group of people. Intersex subjects are people born with both male and female characteristics. For example, they are babies with both ovaries and a penis. A transgender feels of the opposite sex. So two totally different groups, but both with a huge impact on people's lives. According to the SCP study entitled Opeken over sexual and gender diversity in the Netherlands and Europe of May 2018, 20% of the Dutch population think there is something wrong with people who do not feel man or woman. This leads to social exclusion, bullying and discrimination, which is expressed in many different ways. This group is also more often disabled and unemployment is higher than average. On 20 November 2018, the Transgender Network Netherlands launched an investigation entitled "Anywhere on your guard," in which it finds that transgender persons in the Netherlands are abused or threatened seven times more often and are victims of cyberbullying ten times more often. The study of the SCP "Summary on sexual and gender diversity in the Netherlands and Europe" shows that the vast majority (87%) of transgenders do not complain or report their negative experience. Those who experienced a serious incident, such as threats, sexual harassment or even physical violence, did not report or report. Of them only 6% went to the police and 6% turned to anti-discrimination provision. But this isn't just about numbers, it's about people. And sometimes images say more than words. This is how the award-winning film Girl shows I don't know if everyone who's seen it from the Belgian director Lukas Dhont, the confronting and touching story of fifteen-year-old Lara, who wants to make a career as a ballerina. Apart from the criticism you may have on this film, it gives a glimpse into the world of life, the world behind all the numbers. The initiators argue that this has often been the case in the various contributions.... together with the Council of State that it is strictly legally not necessary to amend the Equal Treatment Act. The initiators want to clarify the law on the "sex" part and see the law as a driving force for the emancipation and acceptance of transgenders and intersex individuals. The PvdA Group, together with a number of other political groups, I have already heard them speak, wondering how the initiators and the government want to further promote this broad emancipation movement. As has already been said, an amendment to a law is not a guarantee. I'd like a response from both of you. Finally, my group calls for attention to be paid to the corrective operations of intersex individuals. We agree with the initiators that intersex is not a medical problem, but a natural fact. PhD student Margriet van Heesch notes in 2015 that these operations, without medical reason, are still taking place in the Netherlands at a very young age. Van Heesch recommends that medical interventions for which there is no direct pathological need be postponed until the persons concerned can take part in their decision. But too long delay also has disadvantages. Where in the past the tendency may have been to postpone gender transitions for as long as possible, because the desire might disappear, today is increasingly the view that it is technically right to start earlier, for physical changes during puberty, because it is increasingly apparent that the desire does not disappear. So the question to the initiators and the government is how they look at medical intervention in minor intersex and transgender individuals. Is there any reason to ask the Health Council for advice? I'll come to a conclusion. The PvdA Group sees this change in law as an important step for the emancipation of intersex persons and transgenders. But we realize that with one change of law, this is impossible to achieve. So we are very much looking forward to the follow-up steps being taken. For now, we look forward to the answers of the initiators and the government to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u53	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u54	Madam President, thank you very much. Like the previous speakers, I would like to thank and congratulate the authors. Thank you for all the work they have done, thank you for all the research, study and creativity they have spent on this. And successfully, because they have brought their legislative proposal to the final stage of the long legislative procedure. And that is not the only thing; the authors have also achieved that the bill was incorporated into the government agreement before it became law. That doesn't offer any certainty, especially here in the First Chamber, which is not bound by it. But of course that recording increases the chances of success. Madam President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this proposal. There is a real problem: people who do not comply with the classic division in men or women are discriminated against. They cannot always participate in social life in equality. The aim of this proposal is to provide a solution to this problem. My group agrees with that. But we are not completely uncritical. We have some questions about the effectiveness of this proposal. The proposal wants three things. It aims to increase legal certainty for the target group. It's trying to give a little back-to-back support. And it wants to promote awareness of the problem. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wonders whether the chosen path will indeed lead to the objective, in itself uncontested, of combating discrimination. First of all, I come to the issue of legal certainty. Strictly legally, the bill is not necessary, the Council of State advises. We cannot ignore that lightly. On the contrary. The authors also supported the opinion. However, although the proposal is not legally necessary, there is still a problem in society. Legal practice and case law follow the broad interpretation of the word "sex." There is also no reason to believe that there will be a limited explanation to be feared in the foreseeable future. Why, then, is there a legal definition of this broad interpretation? In most cases, the legislator leaves room for the courts to complete or supplement legal texts. Why does the proposal want to restrict the area of justice in this particular area? Then the support in the back. On its own, that is a good thing. But if the legislator supports one group, other groups will also ask for legal support. If they do not receive it, they will feel depreciated. And if they do get that legal support, there will be more candidates. Thus, a support in the back can gradually lose its meaning. How do the proposers see this? Then, finally, the awareness of the problem. Publicity can help to remove uncomfortable feelings in society. But to get that publicity, a law is not an appropriate means of communication. Laws do not tend to be widely read. Only one group of insiders reads them: the target group, employers and lawyers. But it doesn't reach the general public. My group wonders: would it not be more effective to focus on public campaigns via the press, social media, TV and so on? It is in itself gratifying that the LVTD wants to engage. But do the proposers have any more or other publicity in mind? Does the government have a role here, for example through increased application of criminal law and labour law? Does the Minister see possibilities here? Finally, Madam President. In principle, the VVD Group supports this initiative. Combating discrimination and promoting equality are very important objectives. As a whole, we are happy to give this proposal the benefit of our doubts, but we hope, of course, that the proposers will remove our last doubts altogether. That is why we look forward with interest to the reactions of the proposers and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u56	Thank you, Mr President. The Amsterdam Mounir, who was born a boy but is now a young woman, went to ZARA last year to buy women's clothing. That turned out to be an impossible task. Mounir was sent away from the ladies' lockers because ZARA thought only real girls could fit women's clothes. And Mounir was not welcome at the men's lockers, especially with women's clothing. Even when Mounir had explained that he was transgender and was now wearing women's clothing, the shop staff remained unmoved; the clothes had to go back into the shelves and Mounir went home empty-handed, humiliated. "Apparently, there are only two kinds of people in the world, and I am neither." Mr. Chairman. In Den Bosch, transgender Kim was bullied out of her social housing. She found dog shit in her mailbox, a blow-up doll in the backyard, she was chased and yelled at, and kicked and beaten countless times. She saw no other way out than to move to another neighborhood. And then there's René van der Gijp. He found it funny to mock the Belgian transgender journalist Bo Van Spilbeeck by appearing in the broadcast of Football International with a blonde wig and saying that he wanted to be called Renate from now on. His tablemate Johan Derksen thought it was hilarious and added that we should not pretend this was normal. Mr. Chairman. Examples like this make it painfully clear that many people still don't know how to react to people who don't fit in with the standard image of man and woman. Almost a third of the transgenders never or almost never come out for the desired gender identity. And blame them, for those who do come forward have to do with discrimination in all kinds of areas. 40% are discriminated against at work, a third are offended at least every month and 43% have been subjected to violence in the past year. Intersex individuals, some 85,000 in the Netherlands, also face difficulties in training, work and leisure. They are declared unfit for work, bullied at school and excluded for certain professions. No wonder many transgender and intersex subjects suffer from feelings of depression and loneliness. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party has been advocating the adaptation of Article 1 of the General Law on Equal Treatment for many years. We would therefore like to thank the initiators for making this legislative amendment possible. We welcome the fact that discrimination against transgender and intersex persons is now explicitly prohibited. For employers, healthcare providers, schools, housing associations, department stores and people like Johan Derksen, it is now clear that discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics is unacceptable. Mr. Chairman. Transgender persons may report their experiences of discrimination to the point of discrimination of Transgender Network Netherlands (TNN) or to an anti-discrimination provision (ADV). However, it appears that little is happening in practice. The TNN only received 17 notifications in 2017. And of the more than 4,000 discrimination experiences reported to the ADVs, only 62 concerned transgender persons. Very few incidents were reported to the police as well. Even those affected by sexual harassment or physical violence usually did not report or report. We wonder why this is happening. Is it not known to transgender that they can make a declaration or a notification? Or do they simply see no salvation in it? Do the initiators have an idea of that? I'd like a response. Each year, approximately 700 children are born in the Netherlands with a variation in gender characteristics. These intersex children don't fit the standard picture of boys and girls. The solution of doctors has been correcting these so-called anomalies for years. Often this happens when the children are very young. Intersex children are thus transformed as much as possible into ordinary boys or girls. The choice for this irreversible treatment is often taken by parents on the advice of the treating physician and therapists. Undoubtedly well meant, but after that there is virtually no way back. The Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner calls on Member States to protect intersex individuals in the national equality law. In any case, the proposed legislative amendment will put this into effect. At the same time, we would like to hear what else is happening to encourage doctors, therapists and parents to let go of the image that intersex persons should be fixed. Do the proposers have a better understanding of this? Mr. Chairman. The applications for a sex-changing operation have quadrupled over the last few years. This has consequences for the laundry lists: they are long, too long. Almost 500 minors are already on the waiting list at VUmc, who have to wait more than a year for treatment. For adults, that waiting period is about two years. As a result, transgenders stay too long with a body that doesn't fit them and which they literally have to walk around with every day. One in five transgenders tried to kill themselves once. The Transgender Network Netherlands fears that the number will increase. Do the initiators have any idea of the measures to reduce waiting times and to prevent psychological distress? Mr President, I will conclude. A German saying is: the tighter the cage, the more beautiful the freedom, a statement we have heard from the Party for Animals. Society is changing and more and more people do not feel at home in the sex with which they were born. Although the acceptance and emancipation of transgender and intersex individuals shows improvement, much remains to be done before everyone, regardless of gender or sexual preference, can be themselves. Today's legislative change is a step in the right direction. Ambassadors as photomodel Loiza Lamers, writer Maxim February and rock singer Rianne van Dorst show the political society what is possible if you free yourself from the booth you were mistakenly put in, which you can achieve as an outside and inside after a long process finally connect together. Loiza, Maxim and Rianne point the way for those who are still at the beginning of that transition. It is up to us to support them in a process that requires a lot of courage and perseverance. Today's legislative amendment provides for recognition and legal certainty. After today, there must be no doubt that everyone must be able to be themselves as a man, as a woman and everything in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u57	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, a word of appreciation for the work of the proposers and for this initiative proposal, the outcome of which will undoubtedly be looked forward to today by many people with great interest. Mr. Chairman. Article 1 of the Constitution prohibits discrimination on grounds of sex. The scope of this article is without doubt also covered by intersex and transgender persons. This has been taken into account in the General Law on Equal Treatment. The Human Rights College confirmed this in 2014, by stating that "where a person's gender identity is at stake outside the binaryity of men and women, equal treatment legislation can be invoked." Mr. Chairman. The authors of this legislative proposal consider that legal certainty for persons concerned would benefit from an explicitation of the broad spectrum of variations when it comes to gender discrimination. This is important for those involved themselves and strengthens their social position. Although this law does not substantially add to existing legislation, it clarifies the scope and meaning of the General Law on Equal Treatment. Mr. Chairman. My group understands this movement. It is about strengthening the protective function of the law for often vulnerable people. For people who know or feel differently, who struggle with their gender and gender identity must of course be all space. It would be unfair to delay them, to pass on appointments or at a job, to separate them because of gender characteristics or the gender identity they feel, to meditate them or to problem access to care and medication. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, this clarification of what we mean by not allowing discrimination on grounds of sex can be pronounced and laid down in this amendment to the General Law on Equal Treatment. That will indeed lead to greater understanding and acceptance. My group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal, although as a consequence there will still be difficult questions to ask. The fact that people know or cannot determine whether they are men or women does not mean that that distinction itself is no longer meaningful or essential. It would mean a lot if the distinction between men and women could no longer be used in social life or could not be granted at birth. Mr. Chairman. We understand the bill in such a way that, in addition to the distinction between men and women, there must be room for a category of intersex and transgender. The legislator assumes the biological distinction in general. This legislation nuances this binaryity between men and women, but maintains it for the whole of the legislation. We are talking here about the General Law on Equal Treatment, and not about all kinds of other laws. So I see that right? Is that the intention of the proposers? I also ask the Minister this question. That is the legal and social scope of the ruling we are making today. Mr. Chairman. My group hopes that this law will help people with their gender and gender identity to feel safe and free in our society. That is why we are voting in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u59	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-9.u60	We'll be done a little sooner than planned. So I could move on to the next legislative proposal sooner, if it were not for spokesmen to go to committees. So, unfortunately, I have to formally suspend the sitting until 4.10 p.m., but I would actually prefer to suspend until 4.00 p.m. Shall we see if we can do that? Mrs. Fiers doesn't have a problem with that. Mr. Van Hattem can't open his app, which, of course, is also a problem. Mr. Lintmeijer, do you have a problem if we continue at 4:00 p.m.? Mr. Köhler, don't you? Then the sitting is suspended until 4 p.m.
