ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. This debate is scheduled for today. It is a short debate with a speaking time of two minutes per person. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. Today, during Question Time, we saw Minister Koolmees pretending to do everything he can to stop the miserable EU plans that make it easier for migrant workers to take Dutch WW benefits abroad. But this minister is not doing anything to block this erosion of our social security. Yesterday we read in a letter from the Minister that he is not going to Brussels to pull the emergency brake. He is therefore not going to use the possibility of an emergency braking procedure. It's bizarre and completely incomprehensible. Minister Koolmees says it is not proportional to use this instrument. What the hell is "proportional"? If this plan is adopted tomorrow, tens of millions of euros of Dutch WW benefits per year will be paid to migrant workers who will be able to spend their holidays in the country of origin. That's inexplicable. It undermines confidence in our social security system and it is a blow to the face of hardworking Dutch people who keep to the rules and don't get it all as a gift, because those people also see that the UWV has absolutely no control over, for example, all these fraudulent Poles and that there is virtually no control to see if they are entitled to a WW benefit at all. Nor can this minister get away with saying, "Oh, you know, I'm lobbying in Brussels to see if I can still get a majority to block it." There is simply no such majority. Tomorrow's gonna be in the mood. So there's definitely a hurry. I therefore urge the Minister to initiate the emergency procedure with the aim of blocking all this. If the Minister does not give an undertaking on this matter, I will be tabling a motion in the second period to enforce that emergency braking procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u4	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about a measure that shows exactly what goes wrong with the European Union. It's about the export WW, a benefit that you can take with you to your country of origin. However, Member States are very different in terms of wages and welfare levels. So you get the bizarre situation that your monthly wage can be €600, while your WW export allowance is €1,200. Choose for yourself. This is tying the cat to the bacon. There's no incentive to go to work. The figures also show that 0.5% find work, which is about 20 to 30 out of over 4,000 people. There is also hardly any control over the execution. Why does the UWV not look much better at the implementation of this scheme? Newshow showed that Polish employment offices barely check the legality of the benefit. So you get benefit tourism. Now a majority of Member States want to extend the scheme to six months. It shouldn't get weirder. The vote will take place tomorrow. The government has already calculated that this will cost around EUR 20 million to EUR 30 million per year. And here comes the craziest thing: the government can simply stop it by means of an emergency brake, a veto, but the minister refuses to do so. Why? Because that would be bad for the position of the Netherlands, because that would not be proportionate and because the EU operates on the basis of loyal cooperation. What kind of madness is this? The government is against this measure, the House of Representatives opposes it, the Dutch narrow section in the European Parliament is against it and yet the government refuses to pull that emergency brake. Come on, Minister, you can be a hero today. Stand up for the Netherlands. Don't talk about it. If you don't do something, you're sure nothing will happen. Show a straight back. Fight for your right. Otherwise, the Chamber will have to do it. We shall then table a motion to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I give the floor to Gijs van Dijk from the PvdA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a bad proposal that lies ahead in Europe. That's what this room thinks. The Dutch part in Europe also thinks this is a bad proposal. In all ways, therefore, we should not do this, broadening the scope for export-WW. As I said in the oral questions, this is not about the individual migrant, because it comes here just to work. He's coming here to earn an income. This is to a large extent about the earning model that various intermediate agencies and temporary employment agencies have set up together with employers for pumping around. It is indeed as Mr Jasper van Dijk said: if your benefit is higher than your income, you are crazy to go to work. So, of course, none of that works, but I would very much like a minister to deal with the system behind it, that is, the system of the crooked employment agencies and the intermediaries. That is the most important thing, even if this proposal was finally allowed to continue. Is the Minister going to do everything in his power to protect the solidarity of our social system, to ensure that this fraud is stopped and to tackle the crooked agencies and temporary employment agencies hard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u8	Mr President, thank you. I wasn't here that long ago, and I could recite the same thing, but I'm not. I have mentioned a number of measures, but what we see here defies your sense of justice. From the episodes of Nieuwsuur of the past few months one thing came out very clearly: if money we save together for a benefit at the time when it is inconvenient is abused to go on holiday abroad, that is the axe at the root of our entire social system. We shouldn't want that. We need to protect our benefits and not put them on sale. And then we see here a proposal from Europe that indeed contains a number of good things. There will also be a waiting period of one month in the WW; we want six months. But there are also a number of things that are exactly the opposite of what we would like in the Netherlands. And what...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u9	I'd like you to finish your sentence. After that, you will indeed have an interruption by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u10	As I have already done in my previous contribution, I would like to ask the Minister very sharply how we can adapt our own system in this Parliament, in which we can find some of it together, in a way that does justice to those hard-working people who put money aside for a benefit. These people also want us to prevent the money being misused for holidays and fraud. The question is: have we been maximum creative in that at the moment? The VVD says, no, we're not. I would like to give the Minister a number of specific directions for resolving this problem and ask him to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u11	I have a simple question. Does the VVD agree with me that this minister has not done everything he can to get this miserable plan off the table, and that he must therefore use the emergency braking procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u12	I want us to do everything we can to reduce as much as possible the situation that Europe wants. We need to make sure that if you work hard here for your benefit, it doesn't get any easier to cheat abroad. I also just asked questions about the emergency braking procedure. The Minister says that it is an instrument that has never been used successfully, but I do not consider it effective in this case either. He actually doesn't think it's gonna work. I ask the Minister why this is so. Can he explain that one more time? But above all I ask him: if this is the reality in Europe, why do we not take measures in our own system to reduce these plans from Europe as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u13	I would ask you to ask short questions and give short answers, also because of the nature of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u14	Not everything has been done to stop this. That is the case when this Minister says he is going to use an emergency braking procedure. I now hear a very long answer from Mr Wiersma, about as long as his entire first term, which does not contain an answer. We have to vote tonight and I'm about to table a motion if this minister doesn't just make a commitment. It would help if the VVD were to take action with its tough talk, and Mr Wiersma would say: yes, I support the motion to persuade the Minister to use this emergency procedure. Can I get a simple yes or no on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u15	Yes, Mr. De Jong can have that. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u16	That is an answer, so I think it is Mr Van Dijk's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u17	Then I'm gonna grab it, 'cause this is unbelievable, isn't it? The VVD is as opposed to this measure as any other party. All parties are opposed to this measure. There is a solution, a very simple solution, namely pulling that emergency brake. We know one thing for sure, I say to Mr Wiersma: if the Minister does nothing tomorrow, it will certainly be there, nothing will change and we will proceed to the order of the day. If the Minister uses that emergency brake tomorrow, there will be a debate. Then there are all kinds of options that will then be on the table, including the adjustment of this measure. So do you support the use of that emergency braking procedure or are they all idle talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u18	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u19	I think I just answered that. What matters to me is that we do things that work. I read that the Minister writes that it's actually an opportunityless exercise. That feels like mustard to me after dinner. At the same time, we also see that we have too few Member States around us for this blocking minority. I'm really sorry about that. Huge. Nor have I for nothing in all these debates in recent months called for unity with those Member States and perhaps for procedures to be started together, and you name it. I also hate that when the calf is almost drowned, the Minister says that he is dealing with those Member States, but that he has not succeeded. I'm sorry to hear that. In fact, I was hoping it would have worked. With this procedure, we are not suddenly going to convince Eastern Europe and Southern Europe that things have to be different. What we can do is show that if Europe goes a certain way, we will take our own side with the measures we want to take in this Parliament. I would like to challenge you to make proposals on this with us, because that is the only way we will really prevent these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u20	What a weak bite. Tough talk in the media, but when it comes to it, the VVD does nothing at all. It is pure speculation on the part of the Minister that he says that this measure will come after all. He doesn't know, because he hasn't tried yet. He can use that emergency braking procedure tomorrow and then a completely new situation will arise. So it's very strange to throw the towel in the ring in advance and say, "Oh, that's not gonna work." Just stand by your point of view, I will say to Mr Wiersma. That means not only barking, but biting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u21	I threw everything but the towel in the ring. Anything but! I hope the Minister succeeds in doing so. In fact, I think and hope that he will also see this debate as a strong incentive to see if you can do something with countries such as Denmark and Belgium, which are also critical and which I believe have also considered these instruments, but which have also noted something about relations in Europe. It's never been done. Is that what we're gonna do? Or should we play the game I'm telling you to do everything in our system of WW and in our rules? We must leave the adjustments there so that we are outsmarted in the direction of Europe. That's a more promising direction, is my analysis. I hope that together we will move in the right direction with proposals that will also work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u22	I'm very disappointed in the VVD. In distress, you must try to increase your strength as much as possible. I don't understand the VVD. If he may not have faith in this minister, he should at least not underestimate the creativity of our Prime Minister. Maybe there's something we can do with an inlay sheet or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u23	All the possibilities we could use here, we need now. If that's an inlay sheet... I have no idea. I'd like to ask the Minister that question right away. Mrs. Van Brenn has creative ideas and creative ideas we need now. But we do not just need them to do everything in Europe to possibly stop this proposal. I'd like to see us slow it down, of course. But I would also like us to use these creative ideas to adapt our system here in the Netherlands in a way that works for the people who build WW here and do not work for people who want to cheat or want to go to Poland as a welfare tourist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u24	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'd still like to ask if the VVD wouldn't want to do and-and-do. I suggested that at least in Europe we pull this emergency brake very hard, but we are going to work very hard here too. If we go both ways, it might help us find the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u26	Yes. And I hope that the Minister will be able to do the best he can in Europe. But that does not relieve us of the duty to take some measures in our system. I would like to give some examples of this. Can we, for example, differentiate more according to premium? Can't we also look at the possibilities we have to make adjustments to the structure and height of that WW for migrant workers, so that you first show that you're in and want to build a band, before you get the right to more? For example, we can make a split: an initial lower WW, and if you show that you apply here, want to join and perhaps accept other work, that you will only be eligible for a higher WW. Finally, Mr President. I was shocked by what Nieuwsuur said, namely that of all those people who actually only export their WW, very few signals are known that benefits have been cut or withdrawn at all. Can the Minister give figures: how many people are exporting this WW and what are we doing about it? 'Cause right now, you've been able to do that for three months. And if we do not succeed in doing this right now, my concern is only greater and I ask for more action from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u27	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u28	Collaboration yes, superstate no. That is how the SGP looks at Europe. If the treaty we are talking about is adopted, then the extension of WW exports is a fact. And then it turns out once again that Europe is playing superstate. And I understand that you have to do that, but I and many other Dutch people just don't want this. This undermines the support for Europe and also for social security. So my question to the Minister is very simple: does he see opportunities, will he, together with like-minded Member States, call on the emergency braking procedure already mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u29	That was short, but powerful. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What an unprecedented consensus in this Chamber, from left to right, among all Dutch MEPs, who see this measure, which makes it possible to export your WW benefit longer, absolutely not, but also in the cabinet. Because Minister Koolmees for Social Affairs also made it clear in Question Time that the Netherlands does not like this measure at all. But we are dealing with a European political reality. And on the one hand, I understand that, because that's how democracy works. Unfortunately, it happens to us from GroenLinks that we disagree with something, and that it will happen, even in this house hopefully soon, in the near future, less often. But resistance and persuasiveness are the means we have in our hands. In this case, that should not benefit. I understand that everyone, even in this house, is incredibly angry, because it's very acidic. And it's not really easy to explain to all hardworking Dutch people I'm looking up the collaboration with the VVD, which I think always uses the term "WW" premium. And now I address the Minister: I think it is particularly bad for the support for our social security system, but also for European cooperation. I can really imagine a lot of Dutch people thinking: boys, this Europe, please stop, because we don't want this. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what possibilities he sees to ensure that this does not happen, and whether the emergency braking procedure, which many Members of Parliament are talking about, is a real option. One last question. Many possibilities are now being suggested with regard to whether it is possible to change something in the Netherlands, so that less use will be made of it. I understand that, but I would ask the Minister not to let that happen at the expense of the Dutch who are entitled to WW. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u31	Mr. Smeulders, you have an interruption from Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u32	Do I understand Mr Smeulders right now that he says that if there is a desire in the Chamber to explore possibilities within the current WW structure that can counter and discourage this, the GroenLinks Group is not unwilling to do so, provided that this is a test that the minister looks very closely at in the implementation and does not at the expense of the Dutch' WW rights? Can I interpret him like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u33	That's exactly what you've been intruding on, interrupting...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u34	Interpreted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u35	What a fucking word! It was just as good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u36	Interrupted interpretation. Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u37	Mr. Chairman. The Minister considers that an emergency braking procedure would go too far to prevent further expansion of WW exports; it is only 16 to 32 million per year. Well, 50PLUS wants these European WW plans off the table. It's a lot more than the millions of benefits. The support for our social system is at stake. We have nothing to gain from this measure, which does not increase the chances of a return to work and which, on the contrary, tempts people to benefit fraud. 50PLUS calls on the Minister to block all European proposals in the unemployment chapter of the Coordination Regulation by an Article 48 procedure. We see enough reason to do so. 50PLUS also calls for rapid and detailed development of measures to mitigate adverse effects of the plans from the Netherlands. Can that be promised today? Finally, make work of permanent employment. Because only along that road can WW-turn door constructions, massive WW-exports and WW-vacations be curbed. For, once again, what should Polish migrant workers lose their homes when they work? This has to be resolved, right? Is the Minister going to talk to employers about this? What's he gonna do? In the past we have had debates about this before and then I called it old-fashioned stamps: showing that you are in the Netherlands and that you are available for work. What is the Minister going to do and can we not sometimes go back to old, tried and tested methods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mr Pieter Heerma of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Europe, it is about to be possible for migrant workers to receive a six-month WW benefit in the home country after a month's work in the Netherlands. The great consensus in this House and also in the European Parliament on the Dutch delegations there is very great, and that is not for nothing, because it is an unwise proposal. Not only is it not good for the Netherlands, but as the Minister himself pointed out in Question Time this afternoon, it is not good for Europe either. Because if a safety net becomes a pitfall, it's very dangerous for the support. I would also ask the Minister to explain why there is a great deal of support for this in Europe. From the point of view of frontier work, I can imagine something else, but when it comes to labour migration, must there be more countries that see the risks as we see them as the Netherlands? The Minister indicated this afternoon that there will be plenty of lobbying. At my question, he indicated the difference between France and England. I want to see that, but at the same time, England, a country that is being sidelined, is at the moment having quite a discussion with itself, and that keeping away may not be something it wants to keep doing. Is the Minister prepared to use the last day to sit on that, to see if England can't be brought to that blocking minority? Is he willing, himself or the Prime Minister, to take action if that lobby is fully deployed? In addition, I think that was what we were talking about today: 'We need to do much more to counter the consequences'. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. You can look at premium differentiation, at the level of the WW benefit, at what you can do with repeat-WW export: does that have consequences or does that entail additional demands? As far as I am concerned, you should also consider whether accepting suitable work in the Netherlands should not become a condition. If 99.5% do not find work there, we can simply offer suitable work here that cannot be refused. I'd like a response from the Minister to all these things. I get that there's hooks and eyes on it, but does he want to go check it out? We do not want this; we do not want this consequence. I'd like the promise that he's gonna do this. I am considering a second-term motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u40	There's no more time. This proposal will be put to the vote tomorrow and then it will be a fact. Then we can try to repair all kinds of things, but now, today, the Minister still has the opportunity to initiate the emergency braking procedure. Why is that so important? I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. This is so important because what is now before us is a substantial harmonization of social security. Does the CDA spokesperson agree? If so, is he prepared to work with me to ensure that this Minister starts the emergency braking procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u41	There is broad consensus on the consequences of what is going on here, if it is carried on completely. This will also be discussed in the European Parliament. I also expect my MEP to make proposals to try to change, improve and possibly stop this. I think that is true of several groups. That will be the case in this European Parliament period, but perhaps in the next. This gives me an opportunity to ask the Minister to reflect on this: will there still be a chance for another period? I find yesterday's letter, which says that the emergency braking procedure is unlikely to succeed, convincing. Moreover, this procedure is also problematic. So we are united in the fact that we have to fight this, but after tomorrow this battle has not yet been fought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u43	I'd love to, yes, please, because it's something very important. It's probably not gonna work: what kind of institution is that? Last week it was Pieter Omtzigt who put on a very large pair of pants and tabled a motion to ensure that this minister can indicate what blocking possibilities he has. Mr Omtzigt called it "a substantial harmonisation of social security," so a huge impact on our social security. And now the CDA is back on track. First we saw it with European pensions, now we see it with the European WW. Because that's what it's going to be: European WW payments, where a prosperous country like the Netherlands can pay for Poland and you name it. That's what the CDA will be co-responsible for in a moment. So I want to hear from this CDA spokesperson whether or not he is prepared to call on this minister to initiate the emergency braking procedure: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u44	I have already indicated that the answer is 'no', but I am also going to respond to the rest of Mr De Jong's story. We have this debate here in response to a letter sent by the Minister following Mr Omtzig's motion. That is why we have this debate here at all at the moment. Your thesis is: only by invoking an emergency braking procedure can you stop something; if you do not, you are in favour of this proposal. Both aren't true. The Minister has made it very clear that other possibilities are being explored to stop it. From left to right, not only in this house, but also in the European Parliament, parties want to stop it. Mr De Jong should not give the impression that you are in favour of this proposal if you do not want to initiate the emergency braking procedure, because that is not the case. In addition, I am not convinced that this emergency braking procedure increases the chances of success. The risk is that it reduces the chances of success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u45	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u46	The national parliament, we here, now have, today, the last opportunity. The CDA is making another crucial mistake. Tomorrow, the CDA wakes up and says, "What the hell, couldn't we have done something? Well, I said not yesterday." This is the very last opportunity we, as a parliament, have today, to initiate this emergency braking procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u47	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u48	So my question is: when does the CDA open its eyes and see that today is the last opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u49	Once again, Mr De Jong makes a mistake of thinking. It's not the last chance. I also think that his MEPs in the European Parliament will continue after tomorrow to see if this proposal can still be amended. So even within his own party will not be said: after today there is no possibility. In addition, we will have to look at what is effective to make this proposal better or to prevent it from being so bad. That lies here, in the European Parliament, which lies with the cabinet, also in the coming day. But that will also depend on what we are going to do here in this house to ensure that this exportable WW is not as attractive as it seems now. I've asked several questions about that. And that battle is far from over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u50	There is a proposal, and the entire House of Representatives is against it, including the CDA. There is also a possibility of stopping that proposal. The CDA says we're not gonna do that, because it probably doesn't work anyway. That is an incomprehensible strategy! How can you explain that to the people in this country who say: we don't want this measure; the CDA can stop him, but they're not going to do that because it probably doesn't work anyway? Who doesn't dare, who doesn't win, Mr. Heerma. Why don't you want to use that emergency braking procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u51	Mr Van Dijk first states that something is the case and then says: and if you do not do so, then it goes wrong. But that is not the reality. The reality is that the fight against this proposal will continue, even after tomorrow. This is happening at European level, it is happening in the European Parliament, it is happening here. I refer to yesterday's letter from Minister Koolmees. It is not that a this has a chance of success and b there is not a risk that it may deteriorate the position of the Netherlands in the follow-up. That is also the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u52	But that's all speculation. If Mr Heerma reads the Minister's letter correctly, he will see that there are all sorts of scenarios on the table. The moment the Minister draws the red card tomorrow and says "stop, we don't want this," there will be a new situation. For example, the European Commission can choose to make a new proposal, which you welcome, which I welcome, which the whole Chamber would welcome. I ask Mr Heerma: why not try that? Why throw in the towel already? It's really incredibly weak what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u53	Mr Van Dijk asks a question and draws a conclusion, but it is not ready. This discussion continues. It continues at European level, which also continues in the European Parliament. I believe that the SP Group in the European Parliament will contribute to this in the current period, but also in the new Commission period. The debate in this house also continues on the question: if this cannot be stopped, what are we going to do to change our WW in such a way as to counteract its negative effects? I think we're gonna hang out in that together a lot, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u54	I would like to ask Mr Heerma the same question as I asked Mr Wiersma. Why do we not do and-and so that we walk both tracks, so that we take advantage of all the opportunities that we have, so that we ultimately allow the citizens to have confidence in our social system and in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u55	We must do what is effective and increase the chances of results. The Article 48 procedure has never been discussed in Europe at all. The chances of success here are virtually nil. It'll be sent back. Then you have caused your negotiating position on all other traces of potential damage. So it doesn't apply to everything you do: let's try everything; don't benefit from it then it doesn't harm. It is the result that we are achieving together, both at government level and at the level of the European Parliament as well as in this House. And that's an assignment for all the tracks we have with each other. The "and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u56	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u57	Finally, I would like to know from Mr Heerma: when would it be for CDA? Just this, this sensitive point, our social system. When is the time to pull that emergency brake? This is the momentum, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u58	What is going on is that we are all opposed to this, from left to right, from coalition to opposition, in trade union K, in parliament and also in the European Parliament. We must work together to find ways to do something about this effectively. That starts with the next day looking at whether a blocking minority can still be found and whether the proposal can still be amended in the European Parliament, in this period or in a subsequent period. In this House, too, we must look at what we, if this is to happen, warn the Minister that this may be the case if the rules are to be applied in order to prevent the WW being exported in a way we do not want and which is bad for the support of Europe and for the support of our social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u59	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we all agree that this European proposal is a bad one. There are many good things in it, but the extension of exportability from three to six months makes the whole Chamber, all Dutch MEPs and the cabinet unwise. My first question is therefore still what the cabinet will be doing over the next few hours, because that is almost what we are talking about here in order to increase the pressure to achieve a better outcome. The second question is as follows: What if we lose this anyway? That's what it looks like in all honesty. Mr Smeulders rightly said that, unfortunately, in a democracy, it sometimes happens that you do not get what you want. So what are we gonna do? In this context, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues. The first is what we can do ourselves in our own WW. As far as my group is concerned, I would like to point out that migrant workers who work in the Netherlands and who simply pay contributions here are also entitled to benefits. I think the extension of exportability is unwise, but I think it is quite right that if you pay your premium, you also build up social security. I think that's a great thing. The second question I have is: if you are allowed to export, how do we maintain in the country where someone is going to live? Has the Minister, for example, considered sending UWV employees to Poland, or would he like to look at that? Then they can help if the Polish government appreciates it. What are the chances of doing that? 'Cause getting a WW benefit is fine, of course. But the point is, you have to do your best to get to work. That is, of course, where the great concern lies. Then there is my third point. A number of colleagues have already said, as I am quite right to say, that our concern here is not with someone who is entitled to benefits, but with all those structures, those revolving doors, which cause people to receive benefits. Among others, Mr Gijs van Dijk said that. As far as I am concerned, this is even more encouraging for my group to put an end to that very revolving door. We have talked about this before, in the context of all fraud, and this only makes it extra important, both for those people themselves and for all the Dutch who simply pay the premium. For I agree with everyone that this measure is not good for the support of Europe and is not good for the support of our social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u61	D66 strongly supports Europe. I have often had debates about this, and it has always been said: we must ensure that the debate takes place in Europe, with its supporters and its opponents; it must not be flattened. Then why doesn't Mr Van Weyenberg seize his chance to say now: okay, we're sending our minister out to start that debate, to show courage? Because we see that the entire House of Representatives doesn't want this, including the Minister. Then why say in advance, "Oh, that's not gonna work out; we're gonna lose it, forget it?" Bring that debate to life, Mr Van Weyenberg, support that emergency braking procedure!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u62	I am very much in favour of Europe. It brings us much good; I am thinking, for example, of tackling tax evasion. I think that if you love something, you should be able to admit it honestly when things don't go well. That's the first thing. Then there's the question about the emergency brake. What you're doing, I saw this in previous debates too, is pretending it's free. "If it doesn't, it won't hurt," said colleague Heerma. Well, unfortunately, it's not that simple. I don't expect anything of it. I don't think it'll change anyone's mind if you do this. But I do see great risks of having a chance of improving things later if we continue on this dossier. And I also see great risks for other Dutch subjects. Again, that's a risk assessment. But that this is something free that you can always do, without any consequence, because, well, 'just try it', unfortunately it is not that simple, I say to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u63	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u64	I think this is a bizarre argument. Because this emergency braking procedure could also make the Netherlands stronger. It's all speculation to say here already that it's damaging our reputation. By the way, this is a very serious matter, so I am not saying 'do something crazy' at all. No, this is a substantive debate. I will conclude my interruption with the following question to Mr Van Weyenberg. Does he think that this measure and this attitude of the Dutch Government will increase or reduce the support for European politics and the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u65	I have already said that I think this measure is unwise and bad for the support of both social security and trust in Europe. The point made by Mr Van Dijk is only: does it help to pull that so-called emergency brake? If you were sure it would work, or if you thought it was very likely, you might actually be making a different risk assessment. But I do not expect other countries to disagree. I heard you earlier say 'the Commission will probably withdraw that proposal'. I don't have any, but I don't have any indication of that. I would like to ask the Minister about the Dutch Commissioner's position. So I don't really expect anything from that procedure. I think it reduces the chance that we will succeed in this dossier later. And I see damage in debates, for example, if we want to prevent the Netherlands from contributing too much net to the European Union. So I'm making a different assessment on this point than you are. It really isn't over today. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister will have to do everything in his power to prevent this from happening in the next few hours before the vote is taken and after that, for example in the European Parliament. However, as far as this emergency brake is concerned, I share the government's assessment that it has so little chance of success that the risks are greater than the potential benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has requested a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u67	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Chamber for your questions. After a general introduction, I'm about to answer in three blocks. The first is the emergency braking procedure, the second is 'what can we do in Europe?' and the third on dampening and mitigating measures, which the Chamber has made suggestions for and which I am about to comment on. I shall begin very briefly with a general review of the whole process. It is clear that the cabinet is opposed to the amendment of this social security regulation 883. This position was adopted by the Cabinet a year and a half ago and also shared with your Chamber. In June last year it was voted on at the European Council of Social Affairs Ministers. Even then, the Netherlands voted against a group of like-minded Member States, the group of countries that I listed this afternoon during Question Time. I can therefore be frank about this, because we, as a group of like-minded Member States, have sought publicity on this point. On 15 March I had talks in Brussels with Germany, Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg and Denmark, which work together with the Netherlands. I very much agree with all the comments that this is a bone in the throat and that it is indeed defying the sense of justice. For your background: the revision of this coordination regulation has been under negotiation since 2016. The negotiations are now in the final stage. A provisional agreement will be submitted to the Member States in Brussels tomorrow. This is done to the ambassadors, the Permanent Representatives in Coreper. I very much appreciate the opportunity for me to discuss this point with you today, also in response to Mr Omtzigt's questions last Thursday. In general, coordination of social security rules is important, not just for people living near the border, people living in Belgium and working in the Netherlands or in Germany. We have often had parliamentary questions about the search of those people to whom they are entitled to be sent from the cabinet to the wall. With such coordination we also prevent the Dutch from being double or not at all insured. That too is undesirable. In addition, the Netherlands does indeed benefit from the free movement of labour through the current tight labour market. There are a lot of people from Central and Eastern Europe in particular, but also from southern Europe active in the Dutch labour market. The preliminary agreement that has been reached and which will be voted on tomorrow has a number of positive aspects, but it also has bad aspects. All in all, the cabinet does not consider this to be an improvement. In particular, I have great difficulty with the agreement reached on the unemployment chapter. In this Council, for these reasons, I voted against it once before, in June 2018. After that, negotiations were held with the European Parliament. The rapporteur, Mr Balas, has produced a report which went much further than the position taken by the Social Affairs Ministers. This has, of course, been renegotiated in recent weeks, including by the Member States. The most important point that also comes back to today's debate is the extension of the possibilities of exporting unemployment benefits. Mr Jasper van Dijk put that very well, and that is how I look at it. It is indeed, so to speak, binding the cat on the bacon; those were the literal words of Mr Jasper van Dijk. That is why I attach great importance to the fact that the Netherlands is opposed to this expansion of exports, precisely on this point. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that if people are active in the labour market and pay taxes and contributions, they are entitled to social security benefits. I don't hear anyone arguing that either. If people are active here, they are entitled to these benefits. Where things go wrong, I say in my own words, is indeed when there are large differences in prosperity between countries, when the minimum wage in one country is significantly lower than, so to speak, the level of benefit in the Netherlands. Not for nothing do you get 70% of your last wage in our WW to have an incentive to resume work soon. Apart from the enforcement and separate from job application obligations, the difference in income is the main incentive for people to get back to work. That is where the problem lies, and I very much agree with Parliament that this is unwise in that sense. Nevertheless, I note that the European Parliament voted against at least a majority of the European Parliament, because all the Dutch MEPs, Members of the European Parliament, have voted against it and the European Commission supports this provisional agreement. The Council will decide tomorrow. Mr Heerma asked why so many countries actually support this movement. I think the answer to that is twofold. The first answer is that there are more countries in Europe that have, on balance, people working in other countries. Especially in North-West Europe, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium, a lot of people work from Eastern Europe and southern Europe. As a result, a majority of Member States have an advantage. Let's just call it what it is. I have also noticed this in my discussions with Social Affairs Ministers from Eastern Europe in particular, there is also a sense of justice. People say: a large proportion of our people, for example, we are talking about 250,000 people from Poland alone who work in the Netherlands, pay taxes and contributions in the Netherlands, and then we think it is fair that our citizens should be entitled to social security schemes which the Dutch also receive. This has also been the discussion I have had on the indexing of family allowances in Europe recently. There is also a great sense of justice in it. Then, in a broader context, you should also consider the discussion we have had over the last two years about, for example, the Detacherings Directive, the Mobility Package when it comes to transport, or the Enforcement Directive. All compromises have been made there on the basis of majority decision-making, which were precisely against the sore feet of many Eastern European countries in particular. It has literally been said to me by a minister from another country: by this Detachment Directive you are depriving us of our competitive advantages, because we have low labour costs and we want to export them to other countries. I think this is the answer to Mr Heerma's question. There are simply more countries whose inhabitants work in North-West European countries and there is a deep sense of injustice in those Eastern European and Southern European countries. That also makes it complicated to tie up bonds. I have just said that the like-minded Member States joined together here a year and a half ago. As you can see, it is mainly the North-West European countries that are involved in this cooperation, namely countries that have a lot of migrant workers in the Netherlands, Germany or Belgium. This was the introduction. Let me now turn to the questions that have been asked about the emergency braking procedure. Yesterday evening, in response to Mr Omtzigt's question last Thursday, on his motion, I sent a comprehensive letter to your Chamber with the latest state of affairs. For me too, that was counter-clockwise, I say honestly, because last Tuesday there was an agreement in principle in what is called the 'trilogue phase' between the European Parliament, the European Commission and the President of the European Council. That's Romania right now. That had to be worked out, so it wasn't until the course of the week that it became clear exactly what it was. So I also had to work the weekend to get clear what the details were. That's why we couldn't send that letter until yesterday. A lot of questions from the Chamber are about why I am not prepared to use that emergency braking procedure. They belonged to Mrs Van Brenn, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. Mr. De Jong started it. In fact, everyone has asked this question. I tried to put that into the letter I sent yesterday, which includes the consideration of why this was chosen. Just peeling off. The provisional agreement has an impact on our social security system, certainly, both financially and financially, and this is perhaps even more important for the support base. No one's questioning that. So I am certainly not satisfied with that, not happy with it, but it is not to be expected that the additional costs will be such that it will upset the financial balance of the system or that there will be a real impairment of our system in other ways. That is why it is important that I mention the conditions of Article 48, which has been frequently referred to. I'll take this one and then Mr. De Jong comes along. A condition is that the Member State declares that the provisional agreement affects important aspects of the social security system, in particular its scope, costs and financial structure or affects the financial balance of the system. As I outlined in my letter yesterday, we are indeed talking about a great deal of money; there should be no misunderstanding about that. It amounts to between 16 million and 30 million. However, compared to the total amount for WW payments in the Netherlands, 3.6 billion, this is not legally proportional. That's what I reported in the letter yesterday. Apart from that, I would like to point out that if we were to invoke this, there would be a risk that the Netherlands would be accused of improper use of the emergency braking procedure. Given the conditions I have just listed, other Member States will say: this is actually improper use of this procedure. Nor is there any indication that another Member State will invoke this procedure. That is why the cabinet has decided not to invoke this procedure. We have also decided this because it could harm our position on other important dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u69	I see Mr De Jong wants to interrupt. Each member may interrupt up to three times, and an interruption goes in two. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u70	Mr. Chairman. What an unprecedented disgrace! This minister is simply saying here: we know that it is not proportionate. He says: we know that money is involved, but other Member States will not agree with me when I say that it is so much money that it is detrimental to our social system. What an unbelievable nonsense! To begin with, this minister looks far too much at those other Member States. I think he's a Dutch minister, not a French minister or something. He's a minister here, so he should stand up for our Dutch social system. And how does he think all those people who have to respect the principle of solidarity in social security are going to think about this? In other words, tens of millions of extra per year are going to be spent on Poland, which will soon be able to spend a holiday in Poland with a Dutch WW allowance. How can the Minister believe that this is not a violation of our Dutch social security system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u71	I hope that I have been clear that I am simply opposed to this part of the directive, in particular, on this export WW. That is why the Netherlands will vote against. We are still trying to stop this, even before tomorrow's vote; I will come to that in a moment. I have tried to outline the legal instruments at our disposal, also in response to Mr De Jong's questions. That was also Mr Omtzigt's question next week to map out all the options. I've mapped it out for the sake of completeness. And I have also written down the considerations as to whether this is proportionate. The outcome of these considerations is: it is not proportional. And I say again: it will also damage the Dutch position in Europe on all kinds of other dossiers. I am referring, for example, to the Detaching Directive, which is the principle of equal pay for equal work, and I am referring to the labour market authority, which is precisely about enforcing regulation and combating labour exploitation. This was gonna hurt us. This is unwise in my area, but apart from that, there are many more areas in Europe where we are currently negotiating. We must also find majorities in all these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u72	There are all hardworking Dutch. They work every day to tie the ends to each other. They follow all the rules that are possible. Poland often fails to comply with the rules. The UWV drama of the past week has shown that. Those same hardworking Dutch people now see that for those Poles, the possibilities for exporting Dutch WW benefits to Poland in order to be able to celebrate holidays there are now being extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u73	And you're asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u74	Then this Minister says: it is not proportional to do so and I will do everything I can. This Minister is leaving one very big thing behind, namely the emergency braking procedure. If this minister thinks he's against it, he's going to use the emergency braking procedure today. If he doesn't, he's just kidding us. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u75	No, I think I indicated this both this afternoon and in my letter from last night, and I did so just now, in response to Mr De Jong. Let me take a look at the position of the Netherlands on the issue of social security. This Chamber also often calls on me to agree in Europe on equal pay and equal work, on fair work, on enforcement through the European Labour Market Authority. It is precisely because of this majority decision-making that we have been able to move forward in recent years. That's one. Two: this is a legally non-proportional instrument. This may also put pressure on cooperation with other countries, for example to address the negative consequences. For example, we could work together with Eastern European countries such as Poland to activate, to do so together with the Polish UWV. That would be under pressure. Because you are actually going against the position of the majority of the Member States in Europe, and both the Commission and the Council and Parliament. Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u76	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u77	Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u78	Jasper van Dijk. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The way in which this debate is conducted is, of course, detrimental to the support for Europe, which the Minister undoubtedly attaches great importance to. He says: I am against this measure, but I am not going to stop him, because it may have all kinds of harmful consequences. Does the Minister recognise that this is pure speculation, since he has never used such an emergency braking procedure before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u80	For the sake of completeness, I'm not saying that. I think it's good to put it accurately. What I am saying is that there are legal conditions attached to the use of Article 48. I just read it in my answer. Again, I am against it and find it unwise. I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that this is not good for Europe's support in the Netherlands. I agree with that immediately, and that is why the cabinet is against it. But those conditions are not met. That's one. Two: if this procedure is invoked, it will, as it were, come back to the European Council of Heads of Government. The estimate is that relations there will not change, because the European Council of Heads of State or Government are the prime ministers or sometimes presidents of those Member States who have negotiated these matters over the last two years. And that has to be decided by consensus, so that's actually an opportunityless exercise. Three: because of all these broader interests, both in the area of social security, on which Mr Jasper van Dijk very often calls for agreements to be made in Europe to address unfair situations, and in the wider area, it is unwise to pull the emergency brake here, because we also need each other in Europe, especially in order to find the majorities in order to achieve the things that we, the Netherlands, care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u81	Mr Jásper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u82	But it's all speculation. The Minister is not at all sure if it damages the Dutch interest. He has never done it before and says: it must harm the Netherlands. Well, I can tell you that it is very much undermining Europe's support in the Netherlands. So tomorrow the Minister can tell us straight in Brussels: ladies and gentlemen, this is very bad for the Netherlands; I am putting this emergency braking procedure into effect and I want the European Commission to come up with a new proposal. In his letter, the Minister says that it is a serious option for the European Commission to come forward with a new proposal. So why throw the towel in the ring in advance? No one in the Netherlands understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u83	Firstly, this procedure has never been used. No one's ever done it. There is, of course, a reason: there are legal conditions. I just listed it. As far as support is concerned, I simply agree with you. I can go around that for a long time, but I see the same objections and that is why the Dutch cabinet is against them. But as far as the European Commission and a new proposal are concerned, I must disappoint Mr Jasper van Dijk. This has been the subject of frequent negotiations over the last year and a half. In fact, on 15 March we had another European Council of Social Affairs Ministers. So I said that together with my fellow ministers: don't do this, wait, let's negotiate this even further. A large number of Member States have just said: no, we need to speed up, because we think this is so very important. Unfortunately, Mr Jasper van Dijk's assessment of this point is not correct. That is the actual situation. That is why we have reached that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u84	Mrs. Ten Brink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u85	From Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u86	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u87	Mr. Chairman. It feels like we are going through some kind of blackmail here: if we do this, we are being denied things in other areas. In two months' time, we will have elections to the same European Parliament. I am very concerned about what it does with the support base if we do nothing now to protect our social security. The question is whether this should not be considered in order to apply this brake right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u88	I understand the question. That question has, of course, gone through my own head over the last few weeks. Of course, I have thought about this for a long time. I share the feeling of injustice. I also think it is bad for Europe's support in the Netherlands. Moreover, I have often brought this to the attention of both fellow ministers and the Commissioner. I said it's really unwise. Having said that, we do, of course, have a decision by QMV, a qualified majority in the area of social security. That was deliberately decided a few years ago. This means that if a majority of the Member States, weighted by the number of inhabitants, think it is a good proposal, it will also be democratically put in place. This has often worked to our advantage in recent years, because we have been able to achieve breakthroughs in the Detachment Directive and the Enforcement Directive and in the case of carcinogenic substances, for example, on subjects that other countries, particularly Eastern European countries, were very opposed to. I agree with the Chamber on this subject, but there is much more to it in terms of content, which I am very pleased with, for example, with regard to the A1 declaration and the exchange of information. On the unemployment chapter, I agree with the Chamber, but given the weighting, the legal arguments I have just listed and our interests, both in terms of social security and wider, it is not proportionate to invoke this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u89	I would like to make another point. I assume that the decision-making process will be suspended if the Netherlands pulls that emergency brake. Then the European Parliament could look different after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u90	That's right. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u91	Doesn't that have any consequences? Maybe we'll be rescued by another toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u92	In fact, this Parliament still has to vote on it. There are certainly MEPs in this House who are very opposed to it. I know, for example, that the Dutch and German MEPs are lobbying to stop or change this. Mr Heerma asked explicitly: is the new Parliament going to vote on this? I think that's correct, but I'm gonna check that out. The latest information I have is that the new Parliament must vote on it again. But that is a legal last vote. There will then be no further substantive discussion. But the new Parliament must also vote on it. So that option is still there. What is relevant to me is my Council, the Council of European Ministers. These decisions will be taken by Coreper tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u93	The Minister says it is not proportionate to act now. He pretends that the emergency braking procedure is something that we invented today, or something that suddenly falls out of the sky, but I think it is simply an instrument to monitor the work on the European Parliament and European legislation. So it's something the minister can use right now. I'm wondering what's going on here. If the Minister now sees Brussels taking away tens of millions of euros a year from us, how can he say that it is not proportional, when it has not been done before? It hasn't been done before. How can he judge that? Isn't it much better to just do it and stand as a matter of principle for your Dutch position regarding that WW benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u94	I just mentioned the terms, but I'm gonna do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u95	One more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u96	The conditions are that the Member State declares that the provisional agreement affects important aspects of the social security system, in particular its scope, costs and financial structure, and has an impact on the financial balance of the system. Mr De Jong and I agree on the undesirableness of this route. I also wrote in the letter yesterday what the cost is estimated, namely between EUR 16 million and EUR 32 million per year. I think that is very bad, let there be no misunderstanding about that, but the total of the EUR 3.6 billion that we are now paying annually for WW payments is not the end of the financial structure. It should be about what we're going to do to mitigate the effects. I'll get to that in my third block. What are we going to do to show that it is fair for people to return to work as soon as possible if they have a benefit? That's what I want to focus on. But we consider this legal procedure to be disproportionate and it does not lead to any other result, to sum it up briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u97	In ordinary people's language this simply means: money is being taken from you, but because this minister does not find tens of millions of euros enough money, he lets it go. You get robbed by Brussels, but you let it go because it's not that much money. That doesn't make any sense. It's a matter of principle. It says that you can use the emergency braking procedure "when it undermines an important aspect of its social security system." One very important aspect is the principle of solidarity: the fact that you, as a taxpayer, want to carry with you in order to improve other people's lives. That is what the Minister is doing when the same people who have to cough it up see that the Minister says: it is only a few tens of millions of euros; I will let it go. In other words, I do not think that legal is true at all. Because it just says "an important aspect." The principle of solidarity is an important aspect. Does the Minister agree with us that the principle of solidarity is a very important aspect of our social security? If so, then his own story doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u98	I agree that the principle of solidarity is an important aspect. Sure. I would like to draw Mr De Jong's attention to the following. For the record, this is not my main argument, because I am against exporting the WW. I am against this because of what Mr Jasper van Dijk said: the great difference in prosperity between the countries. As a result, the Dutch WW level is no longer in line with the minimum wage level in all kinds of Eastern European countries. There are some 250 000 people from Central and Eastern Europe working in the Netherlands on the back of a cigar box. We don't have the exact figures. That's why I'm doing it with some disclaimers and some guarantees, because there are also a lot of people who work here for a few months and go back to their country. But there are up to 200,000 employees. They pay taxes and premiums. When it comes to employers' contributions, employers pay contributions to the WW and the incapacity for work, it is roughly one billion euros a year. Those are tax revenues that are paid for those workers. That too is solidarity. I have just explained to Mr Heerma why these countries want this, namely because a large part of the population works in the Netherlands and pays taxes and contributions. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u99	That's not what the whole discussion is about. The debate is about Brussels deciding in a moment that there are tens of millions of euros a year just like that! It is given away to exports of WW benefits to Poland, for example. Then this minister keeps saying it's not proportional. He then comes up with a debate trick from the back of a cigar box and wet fingering. What good is that gonna do us? We need a minister who's just showing real strength. What I am very sorry to have to say here is that it seems that the Minister simply does not want to show his buddies in Europe how serious we are. At the moment he says "my expectation is" and "I estimate that" at all, these are not legal grounds for the use of an emergency braking procedure. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u100	I think I have answered this point three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u101	Sleepy bite!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u102	I responded to the issue of solidarity, which was actually what Mr Van Weyenberg also said in his first term, and to the point that, in particular, many Eastern European Member States say to me when it comes to this question: yes, there are a lot of workers from Poland or Bulgaria who pay taxes and contributions here in the Netherlands and who, on the basis of the calculation on the back of a cigar box, pay a billion a year in premiums, and thus are entitled to social security. 'Cause they're paying for it. That is also a solidarity argument. This is without prejudice to what I think I have clearly stated, Madam President-in-Office, that I consider this export WW to be an unwise measure and that I am opposed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u103	That's what I thought I heard. Mr. De Jong, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u104	We can all hear it, but in the meantime, this minister is not taking the last opportunity to block it. I have nothing to do with what Poland finds or doesn't find. I have something to do with what our own people think. He doesn't like it at all that they see that there will soon be money! From the Netherlands goes towards Poland, where the minimum wage is €500 and a payment of the WW more than €1,000. So that WW just flows away. It is the Poles who will soon be the laughing third and it is the ordinary Dutchman who can take the fall for that. Because with this attitude, social security is just ruined. This D66 minister will be responsible for that shortly. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u105	That is why it is particularly important that we take measures to ensure that people get to work. But I'll get to that later. First of all, I have the block on what we can still do in Europe. Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked about the like-minded countries about the emergency braking procedure. Question and just informal contact with like-minded countries have now learned that there are no indications that other countries would consider this emergency braking procedure. A few months ago, however, there was one country. I always have to pay attention to what I tell you in public. It was about a country where a lot of people are border workers. But our indications are that there are no other countries that are considering this. In Denmark, this has been an explicit parliamentary debate. That is public; that is why I can say this. There is an explicit exception to that rule. Mr Heerma asked whether the Minister was prepared to see if we could, for example, get the United Kingdom to obtain a blocking minority. I have already said something about this during Question Time this afternoon. The UK, of course, has other things on its mind at the moment. There are other debates in the House of Commons at the moment. You can also see this in the UK's European stance on a lot of dossiers. The UK, of course, is only concerned with the Brexit. Apart from that, the UK is also a separate country at the point of WW because the WW is relatively low there. The exportability of the WW is therefore also low, because they have a very different social security system. That is why the social security system in Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg is more similar to that in the Netherlands. They are also hit harder by this, while the situation in the UK is really different, because social security is much lower there. That also explains some of the content. Apart from that, we are still trying to stay in touch with the UK for other reasons too. Mrs. Van Brenk asked which other routes there are. I think she specifically asked about the Prime Minister's deployment. There are all kinds of ways. I personally but also a lot of other people have tried to achieve the Dutch commitment. I do not think it is a good idea to go into too much detail. What is public, I will explain, like the like-minded group or a debate that has taken place in the Danish Parliament. But of course some of the conversations are just confidential. I would be damaging confidentiality and then it would be much more difficult to achieve things, but Mrs Van Brenk can be assured that we have tried to influence this in various ways as a cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then my last block. I would like to say that the acceptance of social security is extremely important. That's been around a lot today. I very much agree with the House of Representatives. That is why it is extremely important to take measures to prevent misuse and abuse and to prevent fraud. So also thank you for the creativity of the Chamber and for the suggestions made today. I told you this afternoon during Question Time that I will send you a letter before the AO on 3 April, which I do not remember, but I can see that that is correct. I also distinguished this afternoon in Question Time between measures that can be taken in the Netherlands and measures that can be used in Europe to try to make changes with like-minded Member States. So I have already promised that I will do so by letter in the preparation of the AA on 3 April. What I am going to do is look at other Member States to see how they deal with this, because there are also Member States which do have a high level of social security protection, but which simply have fewer problems with it. It's also interesting to have a map of that. That is what I want to include in the letter for the AO of 3 April. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party, Mr Wiersma and, in my view, Mr Van Weyenberg have referred to the intermediate agencies, the crooked employment agencies and the structures being rigged. I very much agree with that. Mrs Van Brenk also said that; excuse. I think there are two lines. Firstly, this is to ensure that people do not unduly enter the WW. In particular, we are talking about non-voluntary unemployment. We also have to make sure that once people are in the WW, they also quickly flow back to work. There are, of course, paths to tackle the culpable unemployment, also in the wake of the debate we had in October on the Nieuwsuur broadcasts on fraud involving the WW in Poland. I call the pilot with the temp agencies that are currently running. It's also about the crooked intermediaries, the desks. We register the intermediaries now, so that we know who is acting on behalf of people who claim social security benefits. I informed the Chamber about this by letters of 1 October and 1 February, and there will be a follow-up step before the summer. In May, a delegation from my ministry and from the UWV will go to Poland to see if we can raise the rate of resumption of work with the Poles. Of course, we have also seen that the chances of a resumption of work are very low, as Mr Jasper van Dijk said in his first term. So those contacts have already been made. I myself spoke with my colleague, the Polish Deputy Minister. In May, delegations from SZW and UWV will go to Poland to look at this point. How can we work better together and how can the exchange of information improve, precisely in order to improve the resumption of work? For, apart from this regulation, it simply does not work well in the current situation. We have seen this recently in the broadcast of March 18th of Nieuwsuur. Mr Van Dijk had also asked a question about this. Why does the UWV not look much better at the legality of the export WW? So it's not about legality, because it's often legitimate. Right now it's three months, because it's just legal. It's about the incentive to get back to work. Again, for the third time: if the difference in welfare between the benefit and the minimum wage is so large, that is simply a very complicated situation. It is therefore particularly important that there is a relationship between the UWV and the Polish UWV, to discuss how we can shape matters such as work resumption, job application and enforcement. Once again, in May we are going to Poland to discuss this with the Polish authorities. We also had contact with the Polish authorities on the October fraud case. That is also being discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u106	I see there are interruptions. Am I to understand that in principle you have come to the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u107	I've got a few more, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u108	Then I suggest we finish this first and then the interruptions are committed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u109	Mr Wiersma, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Jasper van Dijk asked for other measures to limit the negative effects of this agreement. I am going to map it, as I was asked by Mr Wiersma during Question Time. I'm going to creatively map out what possibilities there are. It is important, however, that I have also been kept to the law and to the principle of equal treatment, which, of course, entails restrictions. I have to take that into account. I will also have to take this into account in my response to other suggestions made, such as the suggestion on premium differentiation. The premium differentiation goes through the employer. The premium differentiation does not discriminate and does not distinguish between different employees. This is without prejudice to the fact that we need to look for creative ways to see how to increase the incentive. But again, I will come back to the AO of April 3. For example, Mr Heerma also mentioned the need to accept work in the Netherlands as a condition for the export WW, so that we could make an appropriate offer. I am also taking this proposal into account in the development of possible measures. I will see if that could be possible, if it could be a solution for increasing the incentive to resume work. Mr Smeulders of GroenLinks actually made the same appeal to find creative ways to limit the effects. He added that this should not be at the expense of social protection in the Netherlands. I think that is a justified point, because it is also linked to the principle of equal treatment. As a legislator, I have to take that into account, and so do the performer. But I am sure that Mr Smeulders' comment will be taken into account. Mr Wiersma had the specific question of how to differentiate more in the premium and in terms of structure, with, for example, at the beginning a lower WW and a step or mark-up. As I said, there are two lines. In the case of non-influx into the WW it is mainly about that culpability side. The other point concerns the instruments to increase the chances of a resumption of work. It can be done through enforcement, through agreements or perhaps with other design. We really need to take a serious look at that before I come up with all kinds of creative ideas that just come up against all kinds of laws and other practical objections. Mr Van Weyenberg actually asked the same question. For example, his suggestion was to station UWV employees in Poland to work with the Polish UWV to improve enforcement. I think that's an interesting suggestion and I'll take it with me in the letter. In my view, these were the specific questions that were raised on this point. In the AO on 3 April there will therefore be a more detailed analysis, including of the effects, as I announced yesterday in the letter I sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u110	Thank you. There are still a number of interruptions. First of all, Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u111	A person in Poland earns around €600 per month and can claim a payment of €1,200. So three guesses what he's doing. There's no incentive to get to work. The Minister doesn't want to use an emergency brake. He wants to address this problem in a different way by sending inspectors from the UWV to Poland. Are you serious? There's a huge lack of capacity here. Do you really see it in Poland that people from the UWV are going to check whether they are looking for work? Isn't that a bad road?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u112	I don't see it, but I assume it was addressed to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u113	I just indicated that in May we are going to Poland with a delegation from Social Affairs and the UWV to improve cooperation between the UWVs. This point of enforcement can indeed be an element of this. This is without prejudice to my agreement with Mr Jasper van Dijk. If there is that big difference in prosperity, it will indeed be very difficult. I don't want to say it's fighting the beers, but it's really a serious problem. That is why you need to look for enforcement tools that do work. The UWV can play a role in increasing the chances of a resumption of work. We also have other routes in Europe, such as EESSI for information exchange. We are also discussing the European Labour Authority, the ELISA, the European Labour Authority that we are about to set up, precisely in order to be able to enforce legislation and to work together. Those are different routes. At the same time, I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that the fact that the differences in prosperity are so great is an important incentive. That is why I am against this directive. That is why I am against this export deadline. Moreover, this export period has been three months since 2004 and without waiting time. As Mr Wiersma has just said, we welcome at least one month's waiting time, even though we would have preferred more, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u114	May I also ask the Minister to be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u115	You will notice that I have been working on this a lot lately and that I know a lot about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u116	Good. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u117	The Minister is absolutely right: as long as prosperity and wages differ so greatly within the European Union, this export WW measure will be extremely perverse. Does the Minister share the view that this problem continues to exist in any new measure at a time when prosperity and wages differ so greatly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u118	I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. That is why, as coalition parties, we have incorporated into the coalition agreement to lobby in Europe for indexation. For countries outside Europe, we do. If AOW and WW benefits are exported to countries outside Europe, we will adapt them to the welfare level of those countries. This means that the AOW is lower in other countries, for example if it is exported to African or South American countries. We've had that system for years, and it works well, because you take into account different levels of prosperity, what you can pay for it in the country where you live. The point now is that we cannot do this in Europe because of the European treaties. The free movement of workers and equal treatment mean that this is not possible within the European Treaty. That is precisely what is at the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u119	This is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u120	Can't I seduce the minister? Elections are coming up on May 23rd. This means that the whole European structure is under discussion. All parties are given the opportunity to give their vision. The government can also give its vision. Even the Prime Minister, if he had the guts, could give his vision. You can see that the support for Europe is squatting in its joints here and there. And then two months before the elections, such an incomprehensible measure comes through. Then there is every reason for this Minister to say: I am setting up this emergency braking procedure, because I want a fundamental debate on this measure, which leads to an enormous amount of incomprehension in the Netherlands and undoubtedly elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u121	I think it is very good that Parliament and the political parties are holding the fundamental debate on the future of Europe. That's right. That is why the elections will be held at the end of May. I have already argued a number of times why I do not think Article 48 is proportionate and not in the interests of the Netherlands either. I have explained this four times now, in my opinion, after writing it down in the letter yesterday. I think it's really unwise. It's not gonna work. It is also unwise to realize a number of things that Jasper van Dijk wants to achieve from the Socialist Party. That is why I am sticking to that view. I can explain it a fifth time, but I don't know if that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u122	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u123	All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. The Minister does not know at all what effect this emergency braking procedure will have. He's never done it before. He has a lot of support from other Member States that agree with him. There is no support for this plan in North-West Europe. Who doesn't dare, who doesn't win. Minister, keep your back straight. I will give you a big applause if you put that emergency braking procedure into effect tomorrow and thus stand up for the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u124	I stand up for the Dutch interest. So does the letter I sent last night. I regret to say that a large majority of the Member States, of Parliament, are in favour of this. And that's democracy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u125	I would like to zoom in very precisely on what we are going to get for our next debate. We have asked for detailed action to be taken to curb the adverse effects in the Netherlands. The Minister says he's going to look at all kinds of things, but I hear him far too little about the employers' side. Because there are opportunities there too. We told people to mention earlier that they were being employed. So I'd like to hear that side too. I would really like to make a commitment to that, otherwise we will have to enforce it by means of a motion. It really needs to be done very thoroughly and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u126	I'll tell you immediately. In fact, we are already working on this in the context of the October WW fraud. This debate is particularly concerned with the culpability and with the carousel - as Mr Gijs van Dijk said - the revolving door or the carousel. So, sure, everything gets mapped out. The test on the culpability of unemployment is very important, because that is the entry into the WW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u127	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u128	Sorry, just one more thing. I was just saying something between the nose and the lips to Mr. Heerma. It's been checked. The new European Parliament will only vote on the version once again after a legal check. So that's not content. I think it's important to say this. So, after the elections, there is only a theoretical chance that the new European Parliament would block that. It is good to have said this for the sake of completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u129	Thank you. With that we really came at the end of the first term and move on to the second term. Everyone has a one-minute speaking time in that. I'd like to ask you to stick to that. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u130	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. This minister really only had his mouth full of words like: we have to look at the basis for Europe and that is why what is happening now is not good at all; I am against it, but it is going to happen anyway. What about the emergency braking procedure? Yes, despite the fact that we are being caught and robbed by Brussels for tens of millions of euros a year, I will just let it go, because we are not being stolen enough. Of course, that is not only extremely disappointing; it is also scandalous. It seems that this minister simply does not want to knock his friends in Europe in the face and just swallow everything, otherwise he would have just started the emergency braking procedure. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make use of the possibility of an emergency braking procedure with the aim of blocking the EU's proposal for more flexible export of Dutch WW benefits abroad by directly blocking migrant workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Jong and Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1423]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u131	Mr. Chairman. An incomprehensible reasoning of the government: they are against a measure, but they refuse to block it. That's why I have a similar motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the export WW invites abuse due to large differences in prosperity;]] [[calls on the government to use the emergency braking procedure to block the proposal to extend the export WW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1424]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u132	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Of course, everyone is free to submit their own motion, but this does not make any sense. These are almost the same wording as I used in my motion, the PVV motion. And now the SP is going to file exactly the same motion. Two motions that do the same thing, say the same thing and support the same thing, what does that mean? Can't you just support the PVV motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u133	Well, who knows? I think I will, but my motion has just been reworded. So I'd say it's gonna be all right, Mr. De Jong. And if motions are good, then we support them. Are you afraid the SP won't support your motion? Just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I am looking at Mr Wiersma of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u135	Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. Our sense of justice is tarnished, and that calls for maximum action and creativity. And the battle is not fought. In that context, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is opposed to an extension of the WW export period;]] [[Whereas the present proposal contains incorrect incentives and therefore calls for adjustments to our current WW system so that we protect our social security against benefit tourism and fraud;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider the changes needed to improve the protection of Dutch social security against benefit tourism and fraud in the export of the WW;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to intensify and strengthen enforcement in export WW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wiersma, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Stoffer, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Smeulders, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr De Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u136	Mr. Chairman. My colleague, Mr Heerma, will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf with specific measures. Finally. The Minister mentioned earlier the discussion on child benefit and that we are keeping it alive. I wonder if the Minister will see any possibility of reaching an agreement with that group on this too, in order to keep this discussion with that group alive until after this Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u137	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I am now looking at Mr Stoffer of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u138	Mr. Chairman. I have just heard that I am now allowed to use the speaking time I did not use earlier, so thank you. Anyway... The European train is thundering, whether you like it or not. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the recent fraud involving WW benefits by workers from other Member States has clearly shown that enforcement of EU rules on the export of benefits already poses serious problems;]] [[Whereas the EU's proposal to extend the time limit for exports of benefits strengthens wrong incentives and undermines social security support;]] [[calls on the government, together with similar Member States, to use the emergency braking procedure to prevent the extension of the export period from affecting important aspects of our social security system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u139	Mr. Chairman. If anything goes off, you pull the emergency brake. 50PLUS does not want a substantial harmonisation of social security. We do not want to move to an EU superstate. We want a two-track policy. We want first the emergency brake and second national measures. We will therefore support all emergency braking. We will have the EU elections in two months' time, and we are convinced that the reckoning will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u140	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Heerma from the CDA Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u141	Mr. Chairman. Like most of the parties to this debate, I supported Mr Wiersma's motion, the general motion, but I would also like to make a specific motion on a number of points that we have raised in the debate, which the Minister has indicated on some points that he would like to look at and which the Minister has indicated on other points that they are too complicated. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas WW must take the lead in ensuring that there is both a link with the Netherlands and the principle that there is a financial contribution to it first, before entitlement to WW arises;]] [[Whereas the present proposal contains exactly the opposite incentives and therefore calls for adjustments to our current WW system in order to protect our social security against benefit tourism and fraud;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how premium differentiation can be applied to the construction of WW in the context of EU labour migration;]] [[Calls on the Dutch Government also to consider how to oblige migrant workers who go back to work to continue to accept appropriate work in the Netherlands and, where appropriate, to offer jobs comparable to those carried out previously;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how, in the course of the resumption of work in the export WW, the WW monthly wage rate for the decline of the benefit can be adjusted downwards;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the possible additional allowance can be deleted from export WW when taking up work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1427]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u142	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u143	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Chamber for the second-term motions. The motion-De Jong/Maeijer in part No. 1423, the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 1424 and the Stoffer/Hiddema motion in part No. 1426 actually all have the same request, namely to use the emergency braking procedure. I have indicated in the debate and in the letter why this is unwise and why it is disproportionate, also legally. That's why I have to discourage these three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u144	The motions on the documents Nos. 1423, 1424 and 1426 have been discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u145	In the motion in part No. 1425 the government is invited to come forward with proposals to intensify and strengthen enforcement at export WW. The signature is so broad that I simply have no choice, let me put it this way, but I have already promised it this afternoon in Question Time. This is definitely what I'm gonna do. The first move for this is for the AO of 3 April. I shall therefore leave the motion to the House's judgement. Then the motion to part No. 1427. I see what Mr Heerma is looking for and doing. I agree with the intention and direction of Mr Heerma. At the same time, I think it is important that I now state that I have just stated that I am, of course, committed to the law, regulation, equal treatment and European law. That means some things just can't. But I read very well that the motion says: to be seen. I think it is wise to be creative in this and also think of unconventional routes to look at and identify the possibilities, including Mr Smeulders' comment; I think Mr Heerma has said the same. Can I interpret the motion like that? I don't want to raise too many expectations. I could now dissect the four points in the motion, but I think we are going to annoy each other and that is not my intention at all. I just want to look for ways that really work. With this remark and disclaimer, because I don't know about some things whether they can legally, I want to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u146	The point to Mr Smeulders is true anyway, because no one wants to allow Dutch WW beneficiaries to suffer. Only, precisely for the sense of justice, it is important that something happens. I would like to go with the Minister a little bit, but we also know the debates in which it has been said sometimes for ten years that something cannot be legal. Think of integration and the Turkish Association Treaty. Years have been said "no way," but now the Minister is trying to see what can be done. If the Minister has the intention of really seeing what can be done, we are not going to demand that something that is not legal should be done. But that creativity and commitment must be there. We really do understand as both proposers that we ask things that are on the brink of what is possible, but that intention we want, so: look carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u147	I hear Mr Heerma very well. I am very grateful to him for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u148	That leaves the motion to the House's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u149	Two more comments. For example, I will consult with the Poles to deal with this. With all these comments and nuances, I leave the motion to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u150	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-18.u151	The votes will follow immediately. To that end, I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes.
