ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on how the coalition intends to deal with the rejection of the majority. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and give the floor to Mr Asscher as the first speaker. But I see Mr Van Haga for the interrupting microphone. A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	I have a point of order, yes. This debate is about the way in which the coalition intends to deal with the rejection of the majority, but I think that basis is wrong. I believe that the coalition still has a majority. That is why I would like to make a request; I do not quite know whether that is possible. The request shall consist of three parts. First of all, I'd like to file a motion. I would like to present it now and I would like to put it straight to the vote. If this motion is adopted, the whole basis of this debate will be lost and we will be able to do more useful things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	Then, in your first term, you must make the request to make a motion. If a majority believes that this is possible, you can submit a motion in your term. But this is not a point of order. This is just a suggestion from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	But isn't it true that if a majority supports this proposal, I can just table that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. If Mr Van Haga asks for suspension to return to the VVD group, I can understand that, but otherwise I would simply like to have the debate. This is getting a little vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. We can be laughing about it, but if Mr Asscher has accepted this debate, and if that is not the case, I find that interesting information. I don't think there's anything I can do formally. Since Mr Van Haga is on the list of speakers so late, I could offer him that he can come forward and at least speak before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	The order of the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	That we change the order of the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. Then let's do it, 'cause maybe we can go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	No, we have another debate tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	Yeah, well, who knows? Then, if everyone agrees, let Mr Van Haga be the first to speak. Maybe we'll know a little more about what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	I shall look first at the applicant for the debate, Mr Asscher. Is he okay with that, too? We shall then give the floor to Mr Van Haga. Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	Then I'd like to suspend first. I don't understand exactly what's going on here. Otherwise, I will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr. Jetten? Oh, you're walking! Then I would suggest that we suspend for just three minutes, if no one objects. Then you can fight this between yourselves. I'm suspending the meeting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	I understand that there is no majority in favour of Mr Van Haga's proposal. I shall then give the floor to Mr Asscher as the first speaker on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	Madam President, thank you very much. It took 225 days for this coalition to conclude a coalition agreement, to form a majority. The party leaders of the four parties each indicated that they wanted a majority in both chambers for a stable government. How stable it is, you may wonder when you see the bickering, but at least the majority is gone, in the First Chamber since the state elections and here since the departure, or forced departure, of Mr Van Haga. We saw that he has difficulty accepting that fact; we understand that he is no longer part of the VVD Group. Why is that relevant? That is relevant because this coalition itself attaches such importance to that majority and said to connect left and right. I got a note from the Prime Minister that looked a bit like that Rutte I note: greetings from the Trêves room, everything is fine. I hear the Prime Minister now saying it wasn't Rutte I. You're right, excuse me, it was a mistake Balkenende made at the time. And you copied it now. But the bottomline is that this cabinet will have to look for other majorities. My question to the Prime Minister is how he will do that. It's right now with the Bible. So it can become more right-wing, there are all kinds of parties for that. It can also be more with the Bible, there are also parties for that. Or you can look to the left. That last one would be better. I would also like to argue that this cabinet, which has a financial surplus but which falls short of the people in this country, should therefore have lost its majority in the First Chamber. I refer here to two proposals which have recently been rejected by a small majority. The first asked for more money for the purchasing power of the elderly, a proposal I made with Kees van der Staaij. So you have the Bible and the left. The other proposal, which I made with Jesse Klaver and Lilian Marijnissen, asked for something to be done now for teachers in secondary special education. That would be an important gesture that this coalition understands that it must seek majorities outside its own divided circle. I have some questions for the Prime Minister. Firstly, have any agreements been made with opposition parties on support for budgets, the Tax Plan or future legislation? Are these agreements made in writing, in silence, explicit or implied? Have promises been made or expectations raised from the coalition towards the opposition parties to acquire majorities for the future? Mr. Chairman. Why is this important? Because from the perspective of the Netherlands it may be a blessing that the coalition has lost the majority, but that depends on how it handles this. One began by promising outstretched hands. The door of the Trêves room would always be open. We've seen some good things. The coalition has moved around the pension agreement, although forced by the trade union movement, but it happened. But now, now that there are such great needs, with nurses, with police officers and in education... The Prime Minister had a discussion with education today. That ended with: we acknowledge the problem, we go see if there's any money left. So you didn't understand how urgent it is. I am very curious to hear how the coalition intends to deal with this. I think it would be better for everyone if the coalition stopped bickering and started listening to what is needed in the country. Your problem is not lack of money, but lack of attention to what is needed in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. Before the historiography: "Goodbye from the Trêveszaal" was in Balkenende I. Mrs Ouwehand, are you really interrupting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	I thought, "I'm going crazy." I have a question for Mr Asscher. He rightly recalled that this cabinet had said and wants to promote that it wants to link left and right. It is now the case that the entire opposition is opposed to the free trade agreements and recently the Labour Party against CETA. But we are not quite clear what the Labour Party means. The law as it stands is not good enough for the Labour Party, but we know that the Netherlands can't really change it that much anymore. In view of the fact that we want to put pressure on the cabinet to turn against CETA, can Mr Asscher clarify here what exactly the Labour Party is going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	We believe it is necessary, although things have improved in the dispute resolution, to give access to public interests, not only the interests of large companies, but also the interests of workers and of environmental and nature organisations. The NGOs should be given equal access. We have no confidence that if this does not happen, if it does not change, the Treaty in its present form will do justice to those interests. We're for trade. We think that's a good thing, but it has to be done in a new, fairer way. We hope that the cabinet will form a coalition with other ministers in Europe to negotiate this. We don't really understand why that hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you. I am sorry, Mrs Ouwehand, but I am not going to allow any interruptions on all kinds of issues that may have to do with this. I want to stick to the subject, also because we still have a debate here. I didn't make an appointment about the number of interruptions, but I'd like to allow up to two questions. If you use that now, that is the last question. Do you, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	Yeah, I'd like that. This debate is certainly about the decisions that this cabinet wants to take and whether there is support for them in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	Yeah, but not about all the decisions. Otherwise, we're gonna be working on it all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	Certainly not all decisions, but here is the complete opposition to the coalition. I ask the Labour Party the following. The answer given here by Mr Asscher seems to suggest that only trade unions should have access to dispute resolution, so that they are heard. But that is not a fundamental change in the system of the CETA Convention. If you want a fundamental change, that is EU only. That is what the EU is about; we cannot change that. If Mr Asscher believes, what I hope and what he has said in the press, that workers' rights and the protection of the environment and animals must be safeguarded, then this is a major change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	Okay, and the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	Then I hope that the Labour Party will join the opposition camp and that together we will put pressure on the cabinet to put CETA in the wastebasket.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	A brief response, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	I think what I said was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	I follow in the footsteps of Mrs Van den Hul, who has drawn attention to this in all kinds of debates. This is also in line with a 2016 parliamentary motion by Jan Vos of the Labour Party. It is quite clear that we do not consider the present form sufficient to support it. It is up to the Cabinet to acquire majorities in this Chamber and in the other Chamber. That is why I think this debate is important. We see no clear sign of how the cabinet intends to do this, whether it looks to the right, to the more confessional parties or to the left. I hope the latter and I think you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. Seven and a half years ago, in March 2012, we were here too, after former colleague Brinkman left my group during Rutte I and the coalition of VVD and CDA lost the majority in the House of Representatives together with us. I remember it well. The entire opposition united in choir that Rutte I had to stop immediately: end of exercise cabinet and new elections. Those were exciting times, Mr. Chairman. How different it is now. How different it is today. There's hardly any opposition in this house anymore. At the General Political Reviews we already saw that almost everyone is nice to each other and especially of course to the cabinet, because they all want to have a place at the table in a moment. Slime with power is the new hobby, in which especially colleague Klaver van GroenLinks made it rather furious. After a summer of reflection and self-reflection, he indicated that he no longer wanted to score and declared himself loyal to the Prime Minister. GroenLinks will no longer vote against important laws, such as budgets and tax plans. Anyone who thought he'd probably been on drugs was cheated. Because we know by now that Mr Klaver is the only one in his group who is not on a drug infusion. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, embarrassing that an opposition party has become a hugging party, but frankly it is also indicative of the policy of this cabinet. Because whatever we think of GroenLinks' attitude, they are of course also served by this cabinet under the leadership of the Prime Minister and the political leader of the VVD Mark Rutte. This cabinet is carrying out the GroenLinks election programme when it comes to the climate and the nitrogen dossier. Rutte III is actually already a little Clover I. Hence probably the adoration of colleague Klaver. His obsession with CO, with nitrogen, with that climate crazy and with that nitrate madness is now in the capillaries of this cabinet, of the VVD, of Prime Minister Rutte. Maximum speeds are reduced, farmers are driven out of their farms and citizens have to get rid of the gas. The foreign policy is also in line with both sides. The red carpet for fake fugitives is still rolled out and the pampering of illegals is almost elevated to art. So the VVD and GroenLinks could actually merge. But whether they do or not, a political fact is that Rutte II actually had 76 plus that 14 from GroenLinks and therefore 90 seats and 89 left after the departure of colleague Van Haga at the VVD. No wonder the coalition parties aren't getting the Spanish stuff right now. Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope, and millions of people with me, that this cabinet will fall quickly, because the Netherlands deserves better than these left-wing liberal climate hippies who weigh the burden on citizens and hand us over to Brussels, the climate madness, Erdogan and Islam. But as long as the opposition in this house does not act as an opposition, unfortunately that will not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr. Chairman. When I asked for this debate, I indicated that a member of the VVD Group is less good news in this House as far as we are concerned, so that should not necessarily be the reason for this debate tonight. I personally find the VVD to be a bit embarrassing, but as far as I am concerned it should not be a reason for a debate. What is the occasion for a debate this evening is the problems of this cabinet. And there's a lot going on. The debate below is about the illegal war that Turkey has started in North-East Syria and the Kurds, which are being trampled underfoot there at the moment. The Group of the Party of European Socialists really thinks that the cabinet is far too weak to whistle back Turkey. But the problems are also great in our own country. Today, farmers are almost literally knocking on our doors. But not only the farmers are in action today. Action is also taking place in hospitals today. The hospital staff are on strike today. They stopped for good care and for a decent appreciation. Our teachers, too, have announced a new action for good education, for a decent appreciation. Our social attorneys have announced a strike for access to justice for everyone, for a decent appreciation. Mr. Chairman. The economy is doing fantastic, but in the meantime this cabinet is calming itself, whether or not for a fireplace, to sleep with the thought: the economy is doing very well, because we have billions left over from the budget; it is doing well. But despite the fact that the economy is doing so well, despite the fact that the profits are so high and despite the fact that the benefits to shareholders are higher than ever, the wages of a lot of people are not rising, millions of people are currently in uncertainty about a threatening reduction in their pensions, the number of homeless people has doubled over the past period and an affordable home for people with a bit of a normal income has become almost unreachable. Mr. Chairman. The problems of society are great. The cabinet must therefore work hard to solve them. Can it count on the SP? No, as far as we are concerned, not if this cabinet continues on the wrong path. Then it will find the SP Group against it and then we will have strong opposition. Mr Wilders can count on that. If the cabinet wants to talk about introducing a millionaire tax, about tackling inequality, about really moving people's housing forward, about building neighborhoods so you can grow old in your own neighborhood, about investing in culture and about re-evaluation of the public sector, then coffee is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing how this cabinet will deal with no majority in the Lower House of States General. The immediate reason was the behaviour of Mr Haga, a forced farewell to the VVD group and the fact that he retains his seat. But let me be honest: I am not under any illusions. I would like to give you a note that Mr Van Haga will be the last speaker to say that he supports the coalition agreement and actually majoritys with the coalition. Mr. Chairman. Mr Asscher was there as the proverbial chickens to request a debate. And I do understand Asscher; it's quite a turnaround. How do you figure that out? "From Deputy Prime Minister of the country to squatting with a few seats in your hand." He dreams of elections and thinks every mouse hole he's got is Columbus' egg. He seizes every straw to lead to those good, old times, even against his better judgment. But is this an exceptional situation? Has it ever happened before that there was no majority rule? Has that led to a fall, a deep crisis and perhaps even elections? I thought: I look back under the guise "only the awareness of the past can make us understand the present." And what does it turn out to be? I don't have to go back that far. The previous Rutte/Asscher cabinet ruled for months with 75 seats in the Chamber, in the First Chamber even over two years with 21 out of 75!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	That little?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	Like no other... Haha, "so little." Mr President, like no other, Asscher should know how to deal with no majority. He is an experienced expert, a political polyplayer when it comes to governing with a minority. I think Asscher can get a PhD in that. Now he tends to forget what happened in the previous cabinet, but fortunately we can remind him of that. By the way, I do so with a certain degree of pleasure. I don't think it's gonna be easy to rule with 75 seats for this cabinet. I say that with pain in the heart. I myself have more difficulty with the way in which GroenLink's opposition is conducted. Mind you, I have listened with pleasure to the first part of Mr Klaver's General Reviews. It was touching as he read to his children, recognizable how he takes a walk on his bike and, like many young fathers, struggles with the balance between home and work. It touched me, it reminded me of the moments I was looking for myself. It's not easy when you're in politics for a decade, you've done hundreds of debates, you've seen thousands of political tricks, you've seen your opponents' stick-horses over and over again. He said to catch each other flying until you weigh an ounce. We survive a crisis, but everyday life is deadly boring. Unrest and discontent overwhelmed Clover. He decided to radically change the helm, because he was completely done with it. No more scoreboard politics, I quit, no more polonaise on my body. But, Mr President, his conclusion was not really brilliant, namely voting for all budgets. That remains to be seen. But announcing in advance that you're gonna do that really baffled me. He didn't want to negotiate strategically; he said he didn't want a zero sum game. I saw an eager group leader from GroenLinks turn into a kind of burn-out politician in the vein of "we do nothing." No politician who gets it, no professor who follows it, and half of Klaver's voters can't follow it. My conclusion: you need a lot of runaway Hagas to compensate for one Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party. And by the way, it's "Van Haga."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr. Chairman. A debate about the emperor's beard. In fact, it shouldn't matter whether or not the coalition has a majority in this house or in the First Chamber, because dualism should ensure a fair debate with sincere considerations. Only then can the cabinet make informed proposals with support, which it itself claims to be a strong supporter of. The Animal Party considers it really important that the outcome of debates is not established in advance. Unfortunately, the practice is different. But there are two important things going on with the disappearance of the majority under this coalition. A cabinet that insists that it should have every support for resolving the climate problem or any problem and says it wants to connect left and right should seize this moment, especially today, when our city is besieged by farmers who are deeply concerned about everything, and rightly so. They are also concerned about unfair competition, which will result from further trade agreements such as CETA and Mercosur, on which the entire opposition is opposed to the coalition. Farmers are being talked to by all kinds of politicians in this house, but they are not getting the clarity they are asking about these free trade agreements. I ask the Prime Minister today, today, in the light of the peasant protests and in the light of the fact that the complete opposition says that we should not do these free trade agreements anymore, what he has to offer the opposition but certainly also the farmers, who will be faced with measures that are painful, difficult and necessary. The farmers are asking for more, but at least they are asking: do not do this unfair competition to us. Is the Prime Minister prepared today to say: am I going to listen to that? Mr. Chairman. Two difficult things are also going on with the majority that this cabinet should be looking for. You could say, as Mr Asscher did: you look to the left or you look to the right. But this Prime Minister will have to make it clear that he operates under the rule of law. Now it happens that the cabinet doesn't comply with the law. It does not comply with its own laws when it comes to climate change and it does not comply with its own laws when it comes to the protection of nature. Then you cannot go to the PVV or Forum for Democracy, because they are going to come to terms with the so-called middle parties who have been sowing doubt for years. They questioned that climate change is caused by humans. The VVD lasted a long time. You can now see that parties on the other hand are taking over that hoppakee, while the cabinet has a judge's ruling on its pants in the Urgenda case. So is the Prime Minister prepared to say here that this statement will be respected and that there will be an end to the questioning of scientific reports? Because we see the same thing happening in nature conservation. The VVD and the CDA do not hesitate to question the conclusions of the RIVM. You can see that parties such as the PVV and Forum for Democracy go along with this and therefore ignore the judgments of the judge. The cabinet will therefore have to do a number of things. It must say no to the trade agreements, tell a more honest story about the great problems of our time, about climate and about nature conservation, and stop questioning scientific reports about this, which makes it unnecessary to train things. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	Madam President. It is not strange that we are having this debate tonight, because it is indeed politically significant that the cabinet no longer has a spirit-related majority in the House of Representatives. At the same time, there is also a relativisation. Of course, there was no majority in the Upper House. There is also the following point. If all the votes were to go exactly according to the lines of coalition and opposition, I would be very afraid that we would have to vote endlessly. Then it would be 75-75, stabbing votes, and we would have to vote again. But that is not really the practice at all, not even after Mr Van Haga left the VVD Group. In practice, good plans are, of course, very often supported by majorities. As far as I'm concerned, that's also the ideal. The ideal is not that there is just a majority for certain plans, but that there is as broad a majority as possible for those plans. In fact, Mr Van Haga's departure is an additional impetus for that. I'd say that's never gone. We are actually positive about that, because that preserves the arrogance of power. That doesn't bother this cabinet very much, because that majority was already tight, but it helps to realize that you always need other parties to get to that majority. In that respect, I understand the rather laconic note the Prime Minister sent. He is also experienced in working with Cabinets who did not have a majority in the Second and/or Upper Chambers. We must strive for the broadest possible support. So the exciting answers are not so much from the Prime Minister's side tonight. I follow with interest the attitude of the various opposition groups. I would say: the more united we are as an opposition, the more influential we can be. The left-wing cooperation can still get a boost, I have the idea, but the cooperation between the left and the right is also interesting. There have been proposals of this kind in recent times, which were not remarkable at all. Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks once had the initiative to say at the subscription rate in the Wmo: "What if we try to stand under something with all the parties in the Chamber? Then the cabinet cannot say: today we go left and tomorrow we go right." That is also a good challenge: to look in broad terms in the Chamber to see where we can adjust government policy a little bit. So let's not look left or right, Mr. Asscher, but let's put the Bible next to the socialist manifesto and see how far we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	I'll take that invitation right away. I believe that together we made a proposal to do something about purchasing power for older people. I wonder: have you heard from the cabinet? Or is there that arrogance of power at work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	At that time there was no majority for that, as there was no majority for more plans. Sometimes you need a little patience and some good cover and stuff. So maybe we could study that a little bit and get into it even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	Would you agree with me that perhaps we could even interest Mr Van Haga in the purchasing power of the elderly? He's committed to the coalition agreement, but that's not what this was about at all. In fact, this is an opportunity, especially now that there is a lot of financial space, to do something for our elderly. Maybe we can take that initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	Yeah, a lot of financial space. But we in the SGP also attach great importance to financial soundness. If we can find a nice coverage, for example in the childcare contribution for people above €100,000, we can do nice things with that. I'm sure we're open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Good. Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	Madam President. May I use you to congratulate the Prime Minister? Finally, he is the prime minister of more than just the voters of the coalition parties. This cabinet always presented itself as a cabinet that relied on a majority, but that was an incorrect conclusion, because it did not exceed 50% of the votes in the elections. In our view this is not so important, because a minority cabinet can also rule very well. It is essential that there are always varying majorities to be sought. Immediately after the start of this cabinet, 50PLUS offered to provide support where appropriate. Unfortunately, too little use has been made of this. Too bad, because this Prime Minister should present himself as the Prime Minister of all the Dutch. 50PLUS assumes that will happen from this moment on. This is especially important for a subject that 50PLUS has been hammering on for years. Fortunately, I have heard many colleagues tonight mention the elderly. I am referring, of course, to the unnecessary reductions in pensions. Every time we started that, 50PLUS was ridiculed by this Prime Minister. Our numbers and statistics wouldn't be right. He even accused the current pensioners in the General Political Reviews of pottering. Son of a bitch! 50PLUS would not think enough of our children and grandchildren. I think that's a goddess. My group is still sad about that. But fortunately we see that this Prime Minister and his adviser Klaas Knot are becoming increasingly isolated. First it was Corien Wortmann of the ABP who put Mr Knot and Mr Rutte on their song and then Nout Wellink who strengthened the arguments of 50PLUS. A young editor of the Volkskrant called on readers from the front page two weeks ago that there will also be enough room for young people. A tidal wave of other experts followed. And as of today citizens can also vote when they go to the website cominactieforyourpension.nl. That is where the statements of adhesion, thanks to some colleagues here in the Chamber, are pouring in at the moment. As a blow to the flames, this week there was a letter from 60 highly educated ladies and gentlemen who said that they agree with the position of 50PLUS that something should be done about this artificial calculation rate. They tell the cabinet that his retirement vision is really on the wrong track. To honour them, I shall devote the rest of my speaking time to mentioning the names of the people who signed the letter. Drs. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Sonja Barendregt, drs. Dick de Beus, prof. Dirk Bezemer, prof. Eduard Bomhoff, prof. Wim Boonstra, prof. Steven Brakman, mr. Rudo Broekman, drs. Rob de Brouwer, prof. Frank den Butter, mr. Jeroen van Breda Vriesman, mr. Elco Brinkman, drs. Maarten Dijkshoorn, prof. Piet Duffhuues, dr. Jaap van Duijn, prof. Sylvester Eijffinger, dr. Jean Frijns, dr. Wim van den Goorbergh, prof. Hans Gortemaker, prof. Raymond Gradus, drs. Paul van der Heijden, drs. Taco van Hoek, drs. Jan Hommen, prof. Lex Hoogduin, drs. Han de Jong, dr. Angelien Kemna, drs. Michel Klaster, mr. Flip Klopper, prof. Kees Koedijk, prof. Jaap Koelewijn, drs. Peter Kraneveld, dr. Jeroen Kremers, mr. Joop van Lunteren, prof. Eric Lutjens, prof. René Maatman, drs. Matt Martens, drs. Jelle Mensonides, drs. George Möller, drs. Max Monkau, drs. Edin Mujagic, mr. Frans de Néree tot Babberich, dr. Anton van Nunen, prof. Leen Paape, prof. Eduard Pons, prof. Bernard van Praag, drs. Martijn Raaijmakers, drs. Peter de Ridder, drs. Joop Ruijgrok, prof. Dirk Schoenmaker, drs. Dick Sluimers ...]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	How many names do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	I have ten more, Madam President. It would be a shame if we stopped mentioning those names. Then I'll have to take them with me in my second term. That'll go from my second term. Professor Sjef Stijnen, Professor Coen Teulings, Master Willems Stevens, Engineer Jeroen van der Veer, Professor Harrie Verbon, Professor Casper de Vries, Doctor Ed Westerhout, Master Bernard Wientjes, Doctorandus Herman Wijffels and Doctorandus Jan Wijnands. There's still names coming up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr. Chairman. I don't know about you, but I feel extremely uncomfortable in this debate. I believe that the same applies to colleagues when I hear all the giggling in the benches. Today we have had one of the greatest protests in times. Farmers are concerned about what happens to nitrogen policy. There is uncertainty about what provinces want and what this cabinet wants. And three weeks after this coalition in the Lower House lost the majority, we are talking about... About what, anyway? I hear colleagues all talking about the views in their election programme and that they want to realize them. I understand that, but in the end, it's about what problems we solve together. Now all the group chairmen are in the Chamber, including me. Soon there will be a debate on Syria, on an almost insoluble problem. Which one of my colleagues do I see? There's a debate tomorrow about nitrogen. Maybe that's one of the biggest challenges we face together. That's not a coalition problem, it's a problem for all of us. If we don't solve that, we won't be able to build in the Netherlands. Are we going to debate this as group chairmen? My concern is that the Netherlands only sees political leaders in this kind of debate, which is about ourselves. I find that problematic. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet didn't lose its majority three weeks ago. That's what happened before, in the First Chamber. Even then, this cabinet had to look for much broader support. Mr Van Haga will state in a moment that he supports the coalition agreement, of which he has taken note. There's not gonna be that much coming from that coalition agreement. The problems that lie ahead are out there. I mentioned the nitrogen. How do we deal with that? How are we going to make the major challenge of climate change and the proposals in the Climate Agreement concrete? What legislation will be introduced? I'll tell this cabinet the following. If you're really looking for a solution to the nitrogen problem, we'd like to do it together. If you really want to go further in terms of climate and not just use fine words, then we want to work together. If you really want something for teachers, we want to work together in that. But if you guys stick around and don't, if you guys stick around in fights, the cabinet has a problem. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say one thing. Yesterday was the image that coalition parties said that the cabinet letter on nitrogen is leading. I think that's something of the cabinet. I have not heard the Minister for Agriculture about this in the past week. I would like to say to the cabinet: take a step forward and try not to solve it alone in the coalition. You are used to agreeing first with the four of you in the coalition and then looking a little more broadly at how to gain support. But the problems that lie there are not in the coalition agreement. That's not what you're tied to right now. I would not like to challenge the coalition, but really the cabinet and the ministers to take the lead. Look more broadly than at their own coalition parties and start forging the broad majorities that are needed to get the Netherlands ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff. Oh, I hear there's been a trade, with the agreement of the others. Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On September 24, 2019 the VVD Group decided that I could no longer be part of that same group. Then I decided to continue as a one-man group. Of course, that doesn't mean that after 38 years of VVD I suddenly started to think differently. When I wake up in the morning, I'll still put everything past the liberal measuring bar. You're not gonna let that happen. Liberalism is ultimately a disease that cannot be cured quickly. As I said earlier, I still support the cabinet and, as has been said before by several people, I still support the coalition agreement. My signature was underneath and it's still underneath. So the cabinet can continue its work and still has the support of exactly the same majority. Mr Van der Staaij just said that very nicely: it is a spirit majority. I'm still in favour of that. I am therefore somewhat surprised at this, as far as I am concerned, a somewhat unnecessary debate. Mr. Azarkan just said he had no illusions. I'm not. I would now like to put that motion to the vote and ask if we could put it to the vote now, but I am not under any illusions anymore either. You all want to drink this poison cup to the last drop. I'll just wait quietly until the second term. That's the spirit. Then I'll file that motion. Then hopefully we can vote, or we can vote on Tuesday. Then we'll just vote and see that this cabinet has just the same majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	Thank you. Mr. Asscher, we agreed on two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yes. Mr. Wilders, you said something, but that's not how it works. You know that very well. That's not gonna work. Thank you, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr President, you did not make that appointment with me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	Yes, I do. I'll make it alone. No, it's true. Two questions were allowed to be asked. I told everyone that at the beginning, so I'm not going to make an exception. I'm sorry. You can say something in the second term. We're not gonna debate like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr Van Haga keeps a story here that he is a huge victim of circumstances and is forced to use his seat...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	You can't ask a question, because we agreed. I'm so sorry. It's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	I want to ask him a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	But he's already gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	He's still in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	Let's do it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	That's not the time to ask that question. He intends to table a motion to support the coalition agreement. I've seen that he doesn't majority with the coalition. I would like to ask him what that means, for example when it comes to the interests of SMEs. I read in the press that he wants to develop as a kind of pure entrepreneurial party. That seems to me to be a relevant question to ask. If it's not okay with you, I won't ask him. Perhaps Mr Wilders will ask that question. It seems to me to be a relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Could I ask Mr Van Haga a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	I thought it was a relevant question. Mr Van Haga said it himself in interviews when he was expelled from the VVD group. When it comes tozzp'ers, I believe that those were the words I heard in interviews and about SMEs, he would vote differently. If I remember correctly, Mr Asscher did not talk about this. For the first time this week, I saw him vote differently on a number of points, which perhaps did not directly affect the coalition but did affect the coalition. So how absolute is it what you say, Mr. Van Haga? Then you can indeed say that we are quite right here in front of Piet Snot. Or is it true that you intend to vote differently from the coalition on the issues that you consider important? So sometimes it's not 76-74.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	That's a very good question. Of course, I'm liberal and I'm staying. In 99% of cases I will also use the VVD on new issues. When it comes to the coalition agreement, I will vote in 100% of the cases. But if things come out of this coalition like halving the livestock, I will not immediately agree to that. I reserve the right as an independent MP to make an independent assessment of this. You are right that I will defendzzp'ers, entrepreneurs, SMEs, small self-employed and shopkeepers when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	If I am right, I have heard Mr Van Haga say: I support the coalition agreement and I support the coalition. That's what he said in one sentence. So what does "I support the coalition" mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	This means that as a right-wing liberal, if I put everything along the liberal gauge, I will probably come to the same conclusion as the VVD in 99% of the cases. But the VVD is in a coalition, so sometimes weird outbursts come out. I call halving the livestock. Then I do reserve the right to vote differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	So you don't always support the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	No. If there are new, bad plans coming out of the coalition, then no. I've been in it long enough to see that there are lots of good plans coming out and then I'll support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr. Chairman. We really have this debate. That's true. Yes, will we then quickly clear the agenda for substantive debates? I am available for questions, whether or not they are put on behalf of Mr Asscher. If not, I'll sit down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	Madam President. Let me make a little more sense of this debate. Upon joining this cabinet, this coalition had 76 seats in this Chamber and 37 seats in the Upper Chamber. It was said that we are trying to connect to the left and the right. We will seek broad support, broader support for proposals from the cabinet. In the first instance, where this could still be done as a pious wish, it is now a bitter necessity. Directors will have to look for broader support. That was already the case with losing the majority in the First Chamber. That already shed light on the proportions here in the House of Representatives. That will become even more pregnant now that there is not an automatic majority in the House of Representatives, in advance. That requires a lot from the rulers. I wish them good luck with that. In the Rutte II cabinet, the Christian Union Group was extremely constructive. We will do the same to Rutte III.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	This is indeed quite a special debate. The question in this debate and in the request for debate is whether something substantially changed with the departure of Wybren van Haga from the VVD Group. I don't think so. Well, there's a one-man squad in this house. The coalition that has already lost the majority in the First Chamber can now count on only 75 seats in this house instead of 76 seats. Mr Van Haga has indicated that his signature is still under the coalition agreement. But even if that were not the case, I do not think that much changes in the mandate that this cabinet already had. I think that fits within any tradition in Dutch democracy that multi-party coalitions always seek a wider consensus in parliament. Even in cases where this is not necessary in numbers, but in those 1% of the cases referred to by Mr Van Haga, this is the case. I think that seeking that broader consensus is part, and perhaps even an essential, of polder thinking in this country and the coalition tradition in our democracy. We are now at a time when there are more and more medium-sized parties who increasingly have to sit in a coalition with multiple parties to have that majority just or just not. A reality that Rutte I and Rutte II have already had to deal with. What is more, there are more and more European countries, sometimes even more so. As far as my group is concerned, the mandate to the Cabinet and the Prime Minister continues to be to continue to seek that broader support. This has already been done in the past period with the Climate Agreement, the Pension Agreement and the Labour Market Act in balance, where other parties again, I see Mr Van der Staaij nodding finally brought things in and then supported that law. That assignment was there, and that assignment won't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. 75 instead of 76 seats for this cabinet. Does it matter? No, actually not, especially for the fraction of D66, because working together is really in our DNA. When we are in opposition, we try to work constructively with the coalition. Now that we're part of this cabinet, we're looking for that cooperation, too. We saw this in the pension agreement, which was supported by GroenLinks and the Labour Party. We saw this in the Climate Act, which was submitted by a very broad coalition of parties. As far as I am concerned, this will also be seen in the next year in the major areas that are now under way: tackling the nitrogen crisis, reducing the shortage of teachers and a common approach to undermining. During the Political Reviews of a few weeks ago, we saw that there is also a great deal of willingness to work together. As far as I am concerned, this is mainly up to the cabinet, which now has no majority in both the Chambers at the start of legislative proposals or budgets. It will be up to the directors to obtain that support in both chambers and to us as political groups to work together on the issues that we consider important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you, Mr President. losing the coalition majority has potentially created an opportunity for the opposition. But let us be honest, because of the tolerance support, there is no revolution to be expected in The Hague so far, especially now that GroenLinks has cut off the opposition's strength by stating in advance that it is all fine and by indicating in advance that it will support all budgets, from education to agriculture, even if there are no concrete changes or important commitments to the opposition. Too bad! Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, I believe that the loss of a coalition majority has given rise to a renewed opportunity for active democracy, especially on issues where the tolerant partners of the coalition also have to make a new assessment. The development that the approval of an opposition party must be sought in order to obtain a majority in the Chamber, I see as a revitalisation of democracy. The hyperdifferentiation of both the left and the right will make it more logical to work with varying majorities in the future, thus increasing the influence of the Chamber on government policy. Thanks to Article 67 (3) of the Constitution, the Chamber has 150 independent MPs, 150 independent consciences. Let us therefore get used to the situation in which the 150 MPs not only control the government, but become even more active in thinking along with policy and with the future of the Netherlands and all its inhabitants. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet's in the corner now. As long as we leave the cabinet there, the power and influence where it belongs, namely not in a closed coalition agreement, i.e. with a coalition majority, but with the entire Lower House, i.e. with the opposition and the coalition. Mr President, before we torpedo this cabinet by voting it away or before we reassure it by voting with all budgets in advance, let us first look at the points where we can make the Netherlands more social, greener and, above all, more progressive, with a view to the weaker in our society, both human and animal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. The Prime Minister may respond immediately. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr. Chairman. There have been a lot of questions that are not really about this debate. Those were questions about matters such as CETA, Urgenda, the RIVM and nitrogen figures. I should like to leave it unanswered for a moment, because that is not what this debate is about. Tomorrow there will be all kinds of other debates on nitrogen and therefore no doubt also on RIVM. At other times it will be about Urgenda. I'm sure there's gonna be something about CETA. I would really like to confine myself to the business at hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	Don't look so inviting at Mrs. Ouwehand, because you've just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	I'm looking at her cheerful. I'd like to keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	The Chamber has just spoken extensively and the Prime Minister has spoken for 30 seconds. I would therefore like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to respond. Then you will have the opportunity to ask a question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr. Chairman. The reaction of the cabinet is that it will continue to seek broad support. That is the task that this cabinet, this coalition, has set itself. At the start of this coalition, we have always said that we are looking beyond the 76 seats. At the moment, there are major problems of cutting that demand to create continuity, even over the cabinet period. Think of tackling the climate problem and the big issue of pensions. But we also strive for a broader consensus on all other issues. President Lyndon B. Johnson said that politics is also that you can count. At the moment, the coalition in the First Chamber has 32 out of 75 seats. That is not as dramatic as in the second half of the previous cabinet, with 21 out of 75, I understand. But at present there is still quite a minority position in the First Chamber. If you would not do it to create continuity over the elections or because of the search for broad support over the generations and the cabinet period, then it is necessary for support in the First Chamber. The cabinet will continue to do so. Apart from all these considerations, this also happens, because the coalition parties are so in politics here and consider it important not to choke on one's own equal. We shall therefore continue to do so, and the current political constellation only makes this more necessary. Is that good Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	Almost, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	In any case: more necessary. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	I figured I didn't have to bother to sit down again. The Prime Minister had said in 30 seconds: I am not going to answer Mrs Ouwehand's questions. And in two minutes he was done responding to the input of the entire Chamber. That's how we know him. I must say that I think it is a bit cowardly that the cabinet, which the Prime Minister, does not want to respond to the statement I have made. I have told the Prime Minister that the cabinet considers support to be important. I have recalled that the opposition as a whole has now opposed these free trade agreements and that it cannot be said that there is a great deal of support for them in society. Right now there are farmers out here begging the cabinet to get rid of those deals. What does the Prime Minister say to these peasants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	That we are dealing with these matters here at the moment they are on the agenda. Then it will also appear that there is also the coalition's ambition to seek broad support on these issues. But I do not want it to be a Question Time on everything tonight. You can, of course, theoretically put every political subject under this debate and say: well, show that you are looking for that broad support. One will talk about CETA, the other about nitrogen, a third about mortgage interest rates, a fourth about the elderly and a fifth about the loan system. Then we will be working on a general Question Time for hours. I have no objection to that, because I like to debate and we all find it interesting as we are here, but there is still a big topic on the agenda tonight, namely Syria. So I also thought I would act in the spirit of this debate by saying: let us all deal with these issues when they are all on the agenda, and talk tonight about the general political interpretation of the situation as it occurs. That explanation is for my part that there is, of course, a change, but that it does not in itself alter the desire of this cabinet for broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	In fact, the Prime Minister says to the farmers: you fall into it. My second question was about the rule of law, in which the cabinet must operate. In the Urgenda case, two statements were made about not doing enough against the climate crisis and about insufficient protection of nature. We are indeed talking about the nitrogen plan tomorrow, but that is precisely what the split VVD said: I am not going to support these plans and neither are the climate plans. That is therefore relevant. And the cabinet has to say here: we have to operate within the limits of the rule of law, and that means that we have to do better and that we cannot go to the PVV and Forum for support, but that we have to make better plans, which fit in with the judgments made by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mrs Ouwehand's conclusion on how I look at farmers, because of my response in a procedural sense to her question on CETA, I leave it on her behalf. I do not think that conclusion does justice to my answer. As far as her second question is concerned, once again, my view is that this debate is about the political interpretation of the situation that has arisen and is not intended to deal with political issues on a broad front. Moreover, I believe that this issue is already on the agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	Was the Prime Minister finished with his response or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	Then he did not answer my question, namely whether the cabinet or not. The coalition has promised something to any opposition party in exchange for support for budgets, Tax Plan or future legislation. That seems important to me to know in the light of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	Yeah, we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	If so, what did you promise in return for support for budgets, tax plans or future legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	With the Labour Party and GroenLinks, we have agreed to support our approach to the pension issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	There was no support for legislation in this area, which you can still acquire, but I meant...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	Seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	Well, I think so. That's how I interpreted it. We spoke in detail in the Tower of the Netherlands, where you were with us on our approach to the issue of pensions. That's not secret, by the way, I think. In my view, concessions have also been made by the cabinet, leading us to find broad support at least until this evening! Mr Asscher's party too, in order to ensure that there is support over the cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	That's true. I have already referred to this in my speech. Still, my question was serious. I notice that either the Prime Minister does not want to answer the question or the answer is simply no. But then he can give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	The answer is no to the question of whether there are agreements for Tax Plan or budgets. The answer to that is no. No agreement was made on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	So nothing has been announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	There's no agreement on that, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term on the side of the Chamber. Yes, with Mr Asscher. Then we've reached the second term. I call Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I note that some Members of the House find it annoying to have this debate. I understand that, but I still think it's important. Why? The Labour Party would very much like to change the course of this cabinet. We believe that much more can be done at this time for nurses, policemen, the people in education and a fair distribution of prosperity. And then it matters whether the coalition can have a majority in advance. I am grateful to Mr Heerma and Mr Jetten for their contribution to the debate, because they actually indicated their willingness to seek that majority too, for example on these subjects. I hope their words get meaning for the groups I just mentioned. I think they should also be heard in the political debate in The Hague. It is always tempting, one day like today, when there is a big event about the farmers' manifestation and there will be another very important debate, to make all those other things less important, but I do not think that is fair. I think it is very good that, now that the cabinet has lost its majority and at least a number of coalition parties are claiming to be aware of this, we should express the hope that this will be noticeable for those groups in our society who do not feel seen. Those groups think there's a lot of money left, but I don't see much of it. That is why I am grateful for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I don't think the Prime Minister has done himself any good tonight. He's already known as someone who doesn't have any trouble saying one thing and doing the other. I mean, we're all still waiting for that $1,000 we were supposed to get as a present, right? And now it turns out that a Prime Minister who says that support is important and that he wants to connect left and right does not make any effort to listen to the complete opposition saying that she does not want those free trade deals. If you see that there is no support for it in society either, then he is simply too cowardly to answer it today. Mr. Chairman. I have a service announcement for this cabinet. The farmers don't want CETA. The farmers don't want Mercosur. If you are going to stand on those stages to smear peasant syrup to the mouth, but here in this house is doing something else, then I really don't know what the Prime Minister thinks he can build on when it comes to the credibility of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u120	Thank you. I'm looking at my list to see who else needs a second term. Mr. Van Haga? Mr Van Haga! Do you have a motion, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u121	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to confirm that there is still a majority for this cabinet, despite the fact that I am no longer in the same business as my friends in the VVD. My motion was intended to prevent this whole debate, but that was not entirely possible. I do not think we need to vote on it immediately; we can just do that once when it is efficient. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since 24 September 2019 the member Van Haga is no longer a member of the VVD Group, but as an independent member of the parliament in the Lower House;]] [[Whereas there is a need to establish whether the cabinet can still rely on a majority in parliament;]] [[expresses its support for the coalition agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u122	This motion will then be supported in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u123	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Who exactly is the motion addressed to? "Speaks," okay. You may respond to it. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u124	Mr President, the motion seems to me to be referring to the Chamber and I am therefore not commenting on it. I say to Mr Asscher that I think it is very logical that there should be a debate now. I have no objection to this either, because it is not a bad idea to debate political development at all. Towards Mrs. Ouwehand. The fact that I do not want to answer is not given in substance. I don't do that because I don't think it's the right place. Mrs Ouwehand then draws substantive conclusions which I cannot share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u125	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-16-tweedekamer-10.u126	We shall vote on the motion tabled after the autumn recess, I think.
