ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we propose to resume the debate. We're still waiting for the Minister of Justice and Security, but we have a bit of a tight agenda, so we hope he walks right in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u2	I would like to turn on the vote on Mrs Bezaan's maiden speech. Go ahead, Mrs. Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Van Wely, Mr Dittrich and Mr Janssen on behalf of the PVV Group on their maiden speech. This also applies in advance, of course, to Mr Meijer and Mr Recourt. Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the Wet experiment closed coffeeshop chain today. This bill aims to regulate cannabis. Much has been said and written on this subject in recent years. In short, the law means that the government itself will produce a product prohibited by law itself on a kind of government plantations, where the very best weed and hash is produced, in order to gain experience in decriminalising the supply to coffee shops. We don't see anything in this experiment. The accurate report of the Van de Donk committee concluded that Dutch production is mainly for the foreign market and not for coffeeshops. We therefore consider it completely absurd that the experiment was created because of the problems of security and crime within the current policy of tolerance. Drugs and crime are and remain two hands on one stomach. This experiment isn't gonna change that. The policy of tolerance is nothing but failure. The Freedom Party therefore finds it completely irresponsible that the government wants to go even further, further along the path of selective dealing with its own laws and regulations, further along the road of continuing to normalize drugs. Because that's what we're talking about. The Netherlands is about the only country in the world to distinguish between soft drugs and hard drugs, but we can hardly talk about soft drugs anymore. Since 1976, the THC level of soft drugs has risen from 0.4% to almost 20%, with all its consequences for addictive action and public health. My colleague from the CDA just mentioned that. A government must be reliable, bring out the best in its citizens and not hold policies that are contradictory or even downright hypocritical. Acknowledging that the policy of tolerance does not work; do not rig up some experiment to not be confronted with one's own failure. For decades, our youth has grown up thinking that cannabis use is an innocent event. The government will allow it, won't it? Parents have had to watch patiently how easy drugs can be obtained. The consequences of this policy cannot be underestimated. The website of the Brave Mothers Foundation shows the suffering associated with the use of drugs in a compelling way. Research shows that 75% of the Dutch population has a variant of the 5-HTT gene. This gene makes it susceptible to depression. The use of cannabis enhances these symptoms. In addition, worldwide research shows that especially young people who use cannabis for their seventeenth year of life are one and a half times more likely to become depressed than others who have never used it or started doing so after their seventeenth year of life. Unfortunately, my family is now allowed to join the group of experience experts. Last year, my 15-year-old nephew Quintus died. Quintus was a tasty young man with his whole life ahead of him. At some point he started smoking stealth and eventually, turned out later, even very regularly. The how and why aren't relevant right now, the fact is that Quintus started showing depressed behavior. Eventually, this resulted in the termination of his still young life. I hope I don't have to explain to you what an impact this has had on my family and especially on Quintus' father and mother. They lost their only child. Mr. Chairman. Children should not be exposed to this. Lives are destroyed, families are destroyed, but the government wants to further facilitate this by taking on a greater role in the cannabis industry. The Party for Freedom has always been against the regulation of cannabis. We see that the current policy of tolerance has strengthened the standardisation of drug use and has seriously increased the problems of drug crime. This experiment will therefore have little or no effect on the decriminalisation of the supply to coffee shops. In addition to producing state weed, the government will actively promote the reduction or even prevention of the use of cannabis within the participating outlets of this state weed. It doesn't make any sense, Mr. Chairman. More like very inconsistent. Stop it before there's hardly a way back. Choose a consistent policy of active discouragement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you. Don't move, Mrs. Bezaan. Congratulations on your personal maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After studying at the Hoge Hotelschool in Maastricht, you studied Dutch law, first a year at the University of Maastricht, then at the University of Amsterdam, the city where you were born. As a lawyer, you have worked at several companies, including Holland Master Ships Beheer B.V. You are currently working at MAQSfood International B.V. As the name says, that company is active in the food industry. You say about your work: "I love the content and abhor unnecessary regulation and legislation that does not fit in with practice." In addition to your work as a business lawyer, you are a manager of a number of private companies, including in the field of real estate exploitation. As a resident of Blaricum, you were in the editorial section of the village magazine with the poetic name Hei & Wei, with a short "egg," appropriate to the name of the region in which the village is located. For some years you owned the company Spiribiza that took care of retreats on Ibiza with attention to the well-being of brain, body and mind. You also took courses in parapsychological sciences, psychic science, at Arthur Findlay College in the United Kingdom. Since 2015, you have been a People's Representative on behalf of the Party for Freedom. You then became a member of the State and group chairman of the PVV in the province of Noord-Holland. In March 2019 you were re-elected in the Provincial States and three months later as a member of the Upper House. Your motto is: "He who fights may lose, but he who does not fight has already lost." Today's battle scene is the plenary session of the First Chamber. You have just taken the first steps. I wish you every success in the follow-up. Welcome again. I now give the floor to Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u5	Madam President. Of course, on behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to add my congratulations to those who made a maiden speech: Mr Van Wely, Mr Janssen, Mr Dittrich, Mrs Bezaan net and Mr Recourt in a moment. I would also like to congratulate you, Mr President, on your first day as acting chairman in this place. For me it is also the maiden speech, and what a fitting and challenging subject for a maiden speech. It is appropriate, because it gives me the opportunity to test the present legislative proposal in the light of my administrative practice which is quite recent behind me. It is precisely the combination of practical experience and legislation, which is also based on feasibility, that is one of the reasons why I find the Upper House so valuable. Not only appropriate, also challenging, because the subject before us today provokes broader reflections. I found this to be the case in the preparation of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Last week the General Political Reviews showed that, when it already came along several times. And that is also evident today from the contributions of several colleagues. That broader perspective is understandable. Since the morning of 18 September, when the lawyer Derk Wiersum was wound up, the debate on tackling drug-related crime has reached a different stage. The report The back of Amsterdam and other reports quoted here today illustrate that. This has its impact on the way in which the VVD Group is looking at the legislative proposal before us. In my group, the discussion was not so much a liberal one and was not ridiculed by any experience with joint ventures. Our test focused on how the proposed experiment can contribute to the fight against crime related to drug use and drug trafficking. Madam President. Our group appreciates the response of the Minister of Justice and Security to and since 18 September: an appropriate combination of restrained anger, commitment and decisiveness. In his recent letter on the contours of an offensive against organised crime, this line has been extended. Yesterday there was an additional incidental amount to combat the undermining of crime. It does not fit us now with him to go through the suggested measures in that letter. That primacy is on the other side and he is going to have a number of debates on it shortly. In view of the motion tabled by Mr Rombouts, however, I would like to say a few things about what our review framework is if any measures are taken in this direction. I also base myself on my own administrative practice, but especially in this house I look at the feasibility. As far as we are concerned, this approach is based on an integrated approach. It's not just criminal. It is also fiscal, it is also administrative and it is much wider. Mr Rombouts mentioned several other sectors involved. I've been involved in handling the outlaw motorcycle gangs myself. I think the Minister can say that, by using this very consistently, progress has been made there. The whole approach to undermining crime, which, of course, has not been launched since 18 September but has been going on for a long time, is based on this. Such an approach will have to be accompanied by concepts such as "continuity," "consistency," "long breath" and "expected management." This problem cannot be solved within a few years with a project, but requires a broad and structural approach. In this respect, Mr Rombouts' motion might be appropriate, although we should also beware of inflation on this point. 'Cause next thing you know, it's a top priority. Mr Rombouts asked for comments on his motion. You know our review framework and our approach. It is a bit like what is in the motion, but I await the Minister's reaction to the extent to which what is in the motion is of added value to what he himself has already started. I will return to our appreciation of the motion in second term. The Minister speaks in his letter about an intervention team. As far as I'm concerned, that can all be wonderful, as long as it doesn't mean that other organizational elements dealing with the undermining crime suddenly think they can take a step back. Of course, such an intervention team should not drain other organisations working on this subject. Madam President. Of course, in the development of drug-related crime, our position as transit country and our tax regime also play a role. This position and climate also bring many benefits. I do not want to interfere with that and I do not want to look up this breadth in this debate either. But I have the lesson that Paul Scheffer recently learned in this connection in the NRC, which is an open society based on law enforcement, in my mind for this debate. You can also fly the subject from a smaller scale. The Minister for Justice and Security and also the Prime Minister have recently rightly pointed out that it is also the users who maintain this system. I will not deny that. I shall come back to that in a moment, but that is not enough in response to this problem. It is well known from other policy fields that behavioral influence should be framed and that this too will certainly be a long-term issue. I'll come back to the bill before us. It seems to me that it is important today to look not so much at others, but above all at ourselves. Because isn't it the government, isn't it us who have a great responsibility here? The proposal envisages experiments within a system in which the government itself has created criminogenic factors. For the VVD, the basic angle in this debate is to do something about it. It is very special that we have been together for almost 50 years maintaining a tolerance structure. The concept of "tolerant" now has different definitions. That's what it turned out to be this morning. It would be useful if we were to be more precise about that today. Administrative law is mainly applied when there is a view of legalisation in the foreseeable future. As far as we are concerned, this is not the case with this proposal. In popular terms, more eye-opening is allowed. This has recently received a somewhat more active and negative charge with the concept of looking away. That cannot be the case here either. The tolerance structure in the coffee shop policy is much more hybrid. The front door is extremely tightly regulated and fortunately it is also strictly enforced. We know the AHOJG criteria and my experience is that these criteria work well. Street trade is prevented as much as possible, 18-miners are prevented, nuisance is prevented, no hard drug trafficking etc. As far as we are concerned, prevention is added to these criteria. Maybe we can come to a simpler abbreviation, because I just tripped over it. In the written preparation, many thanks, moreover, to the administrators and officials for the careful manner in which this has been done, prevention by the Cabinet has been very clearly emphasized. Last week we received a letter on this matter from the two rulers. We support that approach, but it is a subject that is linked, as far as we are concerned, to the experiment and may also be further developed independently of this experiment. Madam President. If the system works so well on the front door, it's hard to understand that we're still looking away from the back door. In the meantime, this has led to another description of tolerance. In the case of seizures of large quantities of drugs destined for the back door, the judge comes to judgments in the sense of: condemning them, not imposing penalties. This is very uncomfortable for the members of the triangle, who try to take responsibility for enforcing and detecting the supply of coffee shops from organised crime. This alone indicates the need for our group to work on the subject. Through this hybrid construction in our coffeeshop policy, a criminal circuit is created and maintained with excrement, as outlined in my introductory words. But also with crime on a much smaller scale, which affects vulnerable people who are in dependent positions and who have an influence on living conditions in less strong neighbourhoods. The present proposal for experimentation is trying to do something about that. That is why we welcome the proposal in principle. The dual objective of the experiment, health and safety, public order and the fight against crime is, of course, positive in itself. But double goals don't usually make an experiment sharper. The VVD Group stresses the continued focus on health and quality within coffeeshop policy, but many of these health aspects can also be addressed through the front door. And that's what's gonna happen. In the written preparation, you discussed this. The experiment does offer additional possibilities to pay attention to this. You are quite right to state that the experiment should not in itself have any additive effect on users. However, any serious concern about these aspects among colleagues must, in our view, be weighed against leaving crime intact, in conjunction with the back door, if the legislative proposal is not supported on these grounds. For the VVD, addressing these problems in the handling of this bill is the most difficult issue. In doing so, we try to keep our judgement out of a normative balancing framework. It's about regulating. We do not regard it as a first step towards legalization, nor a cheering about it, nor anything like: in essence we do not really like coffeeshops, this proposal merely leads to standardisation. No, we note that for decades there has been a system which is partly functioning well. In the short term, we would not be able to do without that system without causing a great deal of nuisance. We want that system to be regulated in such a way that criminogenic factors are reduced as much as possible. So no legalization, no normalization, but regulation, to minimize the bad consequences of our tolerance policy. If today, apart from our appreciation of soft drugs in general, which I respect from everyone, we take this as a common approach, organized crime may also affect an organised government. The VVD appreciates the establishment of an advisory committee, the Knottnerus Committee. At a later stage there will also be an independent research committee for the experiments. Much appreciation for the work they have already done. It has proved very valuable to me in the preparation for this debate. It is therefore important that these committees be given the opportunity to do their job. We cannot escape the impression that there is tension between the political basis of this experiment and its scientific guidance. The SP just pointed that out. In our view, too many references are made in the written preparation to the coalition agreement; a political document in response to substantive questions. I am referring in particular to the extent of the experiment. "Six to ten (medium) municipalities" is mentioned in the coalition agreement. The only freedom the cabinet has allowed itself is to delete the brackets around the middle. But we are not bound by the coalition agreement here in this house, I would like to say to the government. This morning, this was also mentioned in the debate with the Christian Union. I would appreciate it if in their response the directors could also respond independently of the government agreement and then focus on the comments of the Council of State on the extent of the experiment in relation to the high ambitions and expectations. The Council of State does so in line with the Knottnerus Committee and those texts do not lie about it. Insufficient effects can be measured in order to speak of meaningful outcomes. The Committee recommends a broader experiment. I know the arguments of the cabinet: international agreements and the available enforcement capacity. But I have some reservations about that. First, the international agreements. The cabinet itself states that the contradiction of the experiment with the applicable international European law depends on whether the experiment can examine whether it is an alternative to current policy and thus serve interests underlying the same law, such as the fight against crime. But if I had to defend myself against international agreements, I would prefer to do so with a solid scientific story that supports the alternative, rather than with a reference to the limited scope of the experiment, in the hope that it would be permitted blindly. Then the point of enforcement. Nor is the story of limited enforcement capacity convincing us. For us, enforcement is a concern. The cabinet is still rather vague at this stage, because participating municipalities are likely to face a distorted market. It is unclear how existing suppliers will react. There may be more street trade if the assortment is found to be insufficient. Municipalities, your partners, must feel that the Empire is their ally in the implementation of the experiment, in enforcement, in legal matters. After all, the Empire is primarily responsible for the experiment. Can the rulers reassure us that agreements are made with the participating municipalities in such a way that during the experiment there are no discussions about money and capacity, but that the cabinet and municipalities stand side by side in the fight against organised crime? You refer, in the case of money and capacity in the note following the report, to paragraph 4 of the explanatory motion for a decision. Did the partners agree to that description? And when it comes to enforcement capacity, isn't the size of the participating municipalities more important than the number? Suppose Amsterdam, with 167 coffeeshops, had been selected instead of Hellevoetsluis, had Amsterdam been excluded from the experiment for reasons of enforcement capacity? This brings me to the absence of the four major cities in the experiment. It is nice that some medium-sized cities, such as Almere, Tilburg, Breda and Groningen, are now the sixth city in the country. Our group finds the absence of the G4 from the Randstad for the relevance of the experiment to be very disappointing. There is another dynamic in these cities. From specific challenges, the Knottnerus Committee says. A different dynamic from that of several of the selected municipalities. I am also thinking of stronger clustering of relevant issues and a higher percentage of users. We ask the directors to deal with the advice of the Knottnerus Committee on how the experiment in Utrecht can be implemented as much as possible. By the rulers that is, because not all coffeeshop owners within a municipality want to participate, it is very easy to refer to the regulations that do not allow for that. Surely there are other geographical boundaries than municipal boundaries? Involvement of the G4 municipalities promotes the external validity of the research, in particular the generalisability of acquired insights into larger cities, says the Knottnerus Committee. For the VVD Group, this advice is very important and I would ask the leaders to give it their full support. On the issue of enforcement, I have one more question. In the conditions for the experiment I read that participating coffeeshop owners may keep a trading stock for a week. When I read the report entitled The back of Amsterdam and calculate, I get to a stock of an average of 30 kilos per week, while in the criteria I have just as much praised, 500 grams are kept. That's a difference of a factor of 60. It seems difficult to maintain this criterion in a non-participating municipality. Then the question is when the experiment is successful and what happens after the experiment is completed. The Knottnerus Committee gives commendable reflections on this subject, with some softer administrative terms called "but not less relevant" as "joint forces," "advanced commitment" and "motivation of stakeholders." We are curious about the views of the rulers on this. Remember that partners in the experiment are the municipalities and coffeeshop owners who can't hide behind texts like: that's up to a next cabinet. We would like to hear some reflections from the cabinet about the different possible scenarios at the end of the experiment. The VVD is very curious whether, in the event of a failed experiment, in any way, we return to the old system of looking away and also what happens if the cabinet fails to take a decision on the future policy within the time limits set. Experience with this proposal indicates that decision-making on coffeeshop policy takes time. But for the VVD at the end of the experiment, the principle I mentioned earlier that an open society is based on law enforcement is also valid. But to maintain, you do need rules first. Mr. Chairman. I await with interest the reaction of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u6	Thank you. Hold it right there, please. Mr. Meijer, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to tell you something about your background. After studying planology at the University of Groningen, you became a scientific assistant at the RARO, the Advisory Board for the Spatial Planning. After five years, you became Deputy Secretary of the RARO. In the meantime, you had become a member of the City Council of The Hague for the VVD in 1982. Between 1989 and 2000 you were in the court city alderman Traffic and Transport, Public Works and Monument Care. After eighteen years of politics in The Hague, of which you have been deputy mayor for the last six years, you became mayor of Zwolle in 2000. Until you said goodbye on 1 September last, you were the second longest mayor of the Netherlands in one municipality with nineteen years. It is clear that you, as a long line driver, are also the title of your recently published biography. In your work in the public administration you keep an eye on the long lines. What's good for the city, the region and the city in the long term - now that you're a Member of Parliament - the country? But some traffic connections are also long lines that run very concretely as a common thread through your career. There is the tram tunnel in The Hague, which finally opened with a big delay in 2004. Speaking of long lines... You were at the cradle of the RandstadRail, which replaced the old Zoetermeer Stadsline between The Hague and Zoetermeer and the Hofplein line, between Rotterdam and The Hague. The city of Zwolle and its surroundings made you much better accessible through the Hanselijn. In addition to your membership, you are also President-Commissioner of the WILDLANDS Adventure Zoo in Emmen, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Knowledge Port Region Zwolle, of the Audit team Football and Security, of the Advisory Council Rotterdamsebaan in the municipality of The Hague and of the Culture Prize Overijssel Province Overijssel. At your farewell as mayor of Zwolle, your daughter said that you like to control things at home, too. You even direct Father's Day, I understand. In order to manage this Chamber, you have become the direct chairman of the permanent committee for Infrastructure, Water State and Environment. With the Environmental Law Introduction Act as a crucial dossier, you can use your years of experience to manage things in the right direction. Once again, welcome to this Chamber. I shall now give the floor to Mr Recourt. He pronounces the final maiden speech and after his input we will suspend to congratulate everyone who has made a maiden speech. Mr Recourt has expressly told me that he is in a position to respond to his comments at the end of his term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find it an honor to be standing here today and I realize whose footsteps I'm treading and that makes it an even greater honor. Today's debate is not really a real debate, because of the large number of maiden speeches, and I regret that. Yet I respect everyone's free choice and I respect the tradition of not interrupting maiden speeches. That is why I propose the compromise that, should you have any questions, you should ask them at the end, because I can imagine that some of you will disagree wholeheartedly with me. In the House of Representatives there is a second tradition, namely that at the beginning of the maiden speech something about yourself, about something that concerns you. I don't hear anyone in the First Chamber taking over that, but I wanted to, even though I might introduce something new. What concerns me very much is the right of restoration, or perhaps rather the right of restoration. That's what I'm warmed up for in my working life. What's that? That is the idea that you should settle it in such a way that conflicts can best be resolved by the parties themselves. If parties themselves are involved in this solution, then a conflict will be resolved sustainably and permanently. That's often much better than when the government does. The government must always be involved as a third party in recovery law, but with emphasis: as a third party. The first two parties are the parties themselves. After all, how effective is a sentence if the unsub is standing in front of the fence a few weeks later? How legitimate is a divorce decision if the former spouses just keep rolling down the street, often with their children as victims? Fortunately, many initiatives are being developed in the direction of recovery and an effective way of resolving conflicts: mediation in criminal law, the neighborhood judge and so on. It's all just a little cautious and poorly legally secured, and it needs to be better. Remediation law is basically about a different way of looking at the resolution of disputes and the role that the judge can play in this. Satisfied paths aren't always the best paths. Mr. Chairman. I come to today's topic, and I cannot directly link recovery to it. I had a little bridge in mind, but I couldn't find it. Today we are talking about the tolerance of the sale of cannabis products. In the first place, this is not about recovery, but about fundamentally different questions. Questions such as the effects of criminalising a market, in this case the cannabis market. For quite random reasons, one product harmful to health has therefore been criminalised, such as cannabis............................................................................................................................................................................................. Think about alcohol, for example. The debate on legalisation is a debate in which practice in dogmatic violence is often forgotten. In this light, I am very pleased that this cabinet has decided to investigate the effects of legalising a closed coffee shop chain. Let us try to break the hold in which this political dossier has been captured for decades with an experiment that provides us with relevant data from practice. I thank the Ministers for their answers to the three, or perhaps even more round written questions. In this final debate, I will try to avoid repeating as much as possible and confine myself to the main points and conclusions, despite the fact that not all the questions have been answered equally satisfactorily. First of all, the constitutional perspective. You can solve temporary problems concerning the enforcement of a criminal offence by not maintaining the ban and temporarily allowing the prohibited situation until the time has solved the problem. Think of parking spaces that have fallen due to a construction project, in which there is for a moment no action against people who park error as a result. This is a temporary situation and is then tolerated as an appropriate policy instrument. Accepted is also an appropriate policy tool to examine whether problems with a permanent ban can be reduced by temporary pseudo-legalisation. Concealed is an experiment. If it turns out to be better, legalization must follow. The admission under conditions of sale of cannabis products to private individuals is an example of this. But it is a problematic example, because by allowing the sale of the finished product but continuing to pursue its production or purchasing, you put citizens in a position in which they are forced to do business with the underworld for the tolerated sale. This can only be a temporary situation. From a state-of-the-art perspective, you cannot keep citizens more or less permanently in this legal twilight zone in which they are forced to commit criminal offences in order to carry out their tolerated trade. It is therefore time either to return to the ban and maintain it, or to proceed to real legalisation. In that sense, even a little surprise to me, I also had to say that the Forum for Democracy was quite right: you have to be consistent in that. As far as I am concerned, legalisation cannot be different from legalisation of the whole chain from a legal point of view. Or tolerated as an intermediate step the whole chain, but stop making entrepreneurs criminals. Does the Minister of Justice share this analysis and, if not, where does the Minister see it limp? In my group's view, legalisation of the whole chain of cannabis products is desirable. Because of the above-mentioned legal point of view, but above all because of public health. The use of cannabis products should be monitored because these products may be harmful. So far, all parties agree. Monitoring quality and its use is best achieved in a legal and controlled market, as we do with many other products that can be harmful to public health. This is the true profit of the experiment, and this is where we disagree with many other parties who think that a ban will solve the problem. Legalisation can also make a modest contribution to reducing crime and nuisance. The criminal market is at its best reduced by domestic demand. This is certainly a gain, but the Dutch underworld is producing mainly for the foreign market, as we have heard today. The increasingly open fight for power with organised crime, which the PvdA Group is also deeply concerned about, will not be won by legalisation. However, as a reason for the experiment, the government places the emphasis on this element. Can the Minister explain again what safety gains he intends to make in a successful experiment? For those of us who want to make this debate a priority, I would like to say that neither legalisation nor enforcement will really hurt the underworld. This urgent and serious problem is still being discussed in this House, but cannot be linked to this debate on coffee shops. Mr Rombouts of the CDA also asked for this when he tabled his motion in the first term. He asked if I wanted to respond to that motion, or at least to ask questions for the second term. In that CDA motion, at the time that deltaplan enters into force, could one of the outcomes also be legalization of the soft drug chain, the coffeeshop chain? Or should we, above all, understand this motion in a definite debate against legalization? I have another point to make. The link with the coffeeshops is not made in the motion, but the motion was tabled in the debate on coffeeshops. At any rate, when that link is explicitly or implicitly there, it is becoming a lot more difficult for my group to vote in favour, given the argument I just made, namely that legalisation is, as far as we are concerned, a dot on the horizon. In this case, I would like to ask the Minister what the motion does, regardless of what the Minister does not yet do or intends to do. Mr. Chairman. The experiment with a closed coffee shop chain is a good solution to the final choice between intervention and legalization. As previously noted: Cannot tolerate to infinity. The experiment is clearly a political compromise. That's not so bad. That's how the Netherlands works. What is bad is if the compromise is a good experiment in the way. I have doubted whether the experiment is not so limited that it does not have a real chance of success in advance, or whether it only serves to solve a political problem in the coalition. However, the ten municipalities that participate are diverse enough and sufficiently large. I am concerned, however, that the scale of the experiment is being kept too small, contrary to the expert opinion, without any valid arguments being put forward. Furthermore, the condition that all coffee shops in a municipality must participate in the experiment ensures that the four major cities have lost weight. That's a missed opportunity. It is precisely with a large city in the west within the experiment that a more representative outcome can be expected. Would the Minister not explain again whether he could, for example, involve the city of Utrecht in the project? Mr. Chairman. Now that the financing problem for growers has hopefully been resolved with yesterday's interim ruling, the growers can get to work quickly. This may be in a municipality other than the one where the experiment takes place. The municipality of Lingewaard seems to become such a cultivation community. The coffeeshop community receives support in the areas of expertise, enforcement capacity, a communication pathway and legal assistance. As soon as they are known, will the cultivation communities receive the same kind of support? Is there any extra police deployment for the cultivation communities, if necessary? Then abroad. Fortunately, in more and more countries, we are seeing the development towards legalisation. I too have the question: how do countries like Canada and the US deal with the alleged conflict with international treaties? How can the government prepare for a possible later decision to continue the experiment so that this alleged struggle can be quickly eliminated or reduced? Is cooperation sought, for example, with countries in Europe such as Spain, Luxembourg and Austria, and possibly other countries where legalisation is under development? In the opinion of the government, can the experiment be followed up at all other than on the basis of more scientific research? How has consultation been organized with our neighbouring countries to remove any concerns they may have or to arouse their interest in such an experiment? Is there any further consultation? In the case of a successful experiment, it is obvious to give a follow-up to this. Although this cabinet has indicated that it does not wish to anticipate this, my group assumes that a subsequent cabinet can continue the experiment immediately, if it so wishes. Is that possible, as I ask the ministers, in the light of the current timetable? Mr President, I am at the end of my speech. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is pleased that a step towards legalisation is finally being taken. I hope that the Ministers' answers in this debate can further increase our confidence in this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you. Hold it right there, please. Mr Recourt, congratulations on your personal maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You once started a study of political science, which you didn't finish. In Dutch law you then graduated, at the Erasmus School of Law in Rotterdam. Politics turned out all right later. After working as a probation worker in Dordrecht for six years, you started training as a judicial official in Amsterdam in 1999. Five years later, you became a judge in the Amsterdam Court and in 2006 you made the switch to the Common Court of the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba in Oranjestad. Since 1997, you have been chairman of the Regional Disciplinary Board for Health Care Amsterdam. On 17 June 2010 you were sworn in as a member of the Lower House for the PvdA. You submitted or took over various own-initiative papers and proposals from colleagues on the other side. Then the proposals here in this Chamber were with varying success, though. For example, this Chamber rejected, with one voice difference, the proposal to waive the criminal immunity of persons governed by public law. In 2012, the Eerste Kamer voted in favour of the proposal to ban fur animal farming. The enforcement of the ban is currently being dealt with in this Chamber and, as a matter of course, you are contributing to this. You were struck by your criticism of the expenditure of the Royal House during the annual budget treatment. In 2011, on behalf of the PvdA, you proposed limiting the power of the Head of State. According to your group, the King was no longer to be President of the Council of State and no longer to play a role in cabinet formations. The latter was the case for the first time at the 2012 formation. After you left the Lower House in 2017, you became a judge-alternate at the Amsterdam Court. Since a year you have also been chairman of the Netherlands Youth Courts Foundation. Last year, when you were involved in the struggle for the leadership of the Labour Party before the First Chamber, you referred in a campaign video to your background in the probation, justice and politics. You said, "Evil laws do not protect, but make right wrong." With the motivation to counter that, you have become a member of the First Chamber. Once again, welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u10	I shall then suspend the sitting for a few moments so that all Members who made their maiden speech in the first term can be congratulated. I would ask Mr Van Wely, Mr Dittrich, Mr Janssen, Mrs Bezaan, Mr Meijer and Mr Recourt to stand up for the rostrum, so that all the other colleagues can congratulate you, and I have the honour as President to congratulate you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u11	I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that a number of colleagues who have made their maiden speech have already left, but I would like to congratulate them once again from this point on. To Mr Van Wely, whom I cannot discover very soon, a chess champion, I say with a small quilt: you will find that politics is just like chess; it is life in concentrated form. So enjoy it. Mr. Chairman. Isn't it amazing? In our society, our body occupies an important place. Looking good, slim, vital, young and healthy is considered very important. Physical beauty and health are highly noted. The Bible also speaks with appreciation about the body. We must not worship the body, but certainly not despise it. It is created by God and therefore we must not use any means that can damage the body. This applies to excessive alcohol consumption, but also to smoking or drugs. Given the way in which physical health is looked at in our society, one would expect a great dislike of drugs, even of any hint of it. After all, drugs are addictive and can destroy more than you love. But there is now a legislative proposal which, on the left or right, leads to a certain standardisation of drug use; a legislative proposal which must provide information to better regulate the so-called back door of the coffee shop. That is unusual, because I think we are seeing a cabinet here rowing against the social flow, not quietly paddling but at a furious pace. The whole country is at a standstill because of the nitrogen crisis, but this stain from the coalition agreement is being rushed by parliament like some kind of emergency law. Only the abolition of the referendum went even faster. Now the SGP certainly doesn't advocate a government that blows away with public opinion, but this is very harsh. Does the Minister recognise that thinking about drug use is tilting, as has been said before, partly in connection with the recently published report De backder van Amsterdam and the murder of lawyer Derk Wiersum? I will not fail to quote the Minister of Justice and Security. In the Algemeen Dagblad of 21 September 2019 he says it must be done with the standardisation of drug use. I quote: "Everyone who swallows a pill or sniffs a line, I address, because you finance criminals. I've seen how neighborhoods are under the pressure of those criminals. The people who use so-called recreational use are hospitable on their pills. Those pills are twisted in neighborhoods where you don't live." On the question of whether use in the nightlife should not be stopped much more strongly, the Minister replied as follows: "I am doing the same. I've been speaking directly to them for years. I think this is changing something. It can't be that we can smoke and reduce alcohol, but we can't do drugs." A very nice sentence: "The pendule of drug tolerance is fortunately heading in the right direction." So much for the Minister of Justice. And then our Prime Minister Rutte in his weekly conversation with the NOS on September 20, 2019. In this interview, the Prime Minister warned not only drug criminals but also drug users about the consequences for society. Literally he said: "A person who smokes his first joint or takes a pill at a dance festival starts demand, then comes the supply and eventually the worst crime arises with a turnover in the Netherlands of tens of billions." So much for Prime Minister Rutte. Bravo! This is what the SGP expects from our government. In principle, it must be on the side of life, on the side of all those mothers who break because their children are dying of drug abuse. I refer to the recent extensive research carried out by the Trimbos Institute on the serious consequences for public health. Between 2009 and 2018, more than 45,000 drug-related incidents were recorded in the Netherlands, according to the monitor. In 2018, there were 6,108 incidents. That is a fraction of the actual number of incidents because a large majority of emergency services and ambulance services do not share information. Isn't that weird, by the way, I'm asking the Minister. Is there any other way? If the quoted rulers take their statements seriously, with me finding that thinking about the normalization of drug use seems to reverse and genuinely warn soft drug users themselves of the consequences of their drug use on society, then there is only one possible outcome: stop this extremely unfortunate experiment. With this experiment, you are sending a counter-signal, namely the message that soft drug use is normal. With this experiment, standardisation is given an additional boost, by feeding the image that cannabis is not harmful to health, because the government is monitoring the quality of this product banned by that same government. If a majority in the First Chamber is to say that monitoring the quality of drugs is a public task, it is high time for a new state committee; hopefully Mr Remkes has some room in his agenda. It is a public task to close all coffee shops, because they are a scourge for public health, a tragedy for many families and a court of pleasure for criminals. The pot sector is intertwined with the underworld. Everyone knows that the current policy of tolerance is bankrupt and has given our country the image of a narcostate. No happy hippie culture. This thinking is like the '60s. I refer to the findings of the so-called Brave Mothers, who had to see with a broken heart how their children got to the drugs. In what way does the Minister continue to involve these women in the experiment, should it continue unexpectedly? I also refer to the regulation of prostitution policy. This policy is intended to combat trafficking in human beings, which has just increased. Why continue on this evil path? Also, from the coverage of the results of the legalisation of cultivation and sale of cannabis in Canada, I cannot deduce that we are on the right track. Does the Minister see this differently? Moreover, are we not going to get extra crime because the authorised breeding sites are going to be called state plantations, which are very attractive targets for organised crime? We now know the extreme violence these people use. Is that where our scarce police capacity is supposed to go, or even our army? Is the Minister sure that organized crime will not in any way gain control over the experiment? Mr. Chairman. The SGP doesn't want high society. That is why we think this bill is a very bad plan. If we really wanted to experiment seriously, why not, in parallel with the experiment closed coffeeshop chain, work out an experiment for a number of municipalities where the sale of weed is tolerated now, but where the sale of soft drugs is prohibited and where the sale of soft drugs is strictly enforced? For example, we can see what the effects are in terms of crime, security, nuisance and public health. Wouldn't that provide some interesting comparative evidence? The SGP sincerely hopes that the international community will call our country to order and that we will abide by what has been agreed internationally on the fight against drugs. What is the government's current view of the possibility of bringing proceedings against the Netherlands in international or European bodies? I await the answer with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u13	Thank you. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-8.u14	The first deadline for this debate on the part of the government is scheduled to take place at 7.15 p.m. I shall now suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. After the suspension, we will continue with the legislative proposal 35180, Adoption of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of Accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, established in Brussels on 6 February 2019. We then assume that we can continue with the Government's reply and the reply and the rejoinder on the 34956 bill on the deactivation of the quota levy at 16.45 p.m.
