ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik for her question to the same Minister, the Minister for Justice and Security, about the message that Turkey is going to send back IS'ers. Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the Turkish Minister of the Interior announced that she will actively deport IS'ers. Two days ago, the news came in that a German or a Dane and an American have actually been deported. This raises the question whether there are among this group of arrested IS'ers also Dutch. Are there any indications that Dutch ISs will be actively deported to the Netherlands? Does the government now have contact with the Turkish government about sending these ISs back? If so, what have these contacts been and can we expect the Turkish Government to actively inform us when this is the case? Has the cabinet taken concrete measures since last weekend to regulate the arrival of these ISs in a good way? If so, what are these measures? What happens when suddenly someone shows up at our borders? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Following the statements made by the Turkish Minister to which the Member refers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	Ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	Oh, excuse me, excuse me, I didn't mean any harm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	I thought you said "the gentleman."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, I said "member."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	Oh, member, excuse, my ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	Okay, I'll talk about this in order to avoid any misunderstandings about Mrs. Chicken. The co-worker from the State Department and I checked with the embassy. We then found that, in most cases to which the Turkish Minister referred, there were already known plans for expulsion. The starting point is, of course, that it is up to Turkey to decide what to do with extravagants or foreign terrorist fighters on Turkish territory, because that is where Turkey has territorial jurisdiction. In doing so, it is of the utmost importance that the Netherlands and other countries be informed in good time, as a result of Mrs Kuik's question. We therefore keep in close contact with Turkey about the Dutch extravagants who have reported to the Dutch embassy. We are looking at the extent to which there has been a return. If so, this guided return will have to be for prosecution in the Netherlands. That is in line with the policy. Furthermore, all the services concerned are indeed prepared. If it is an IS person who has reported to the consulate as a Dutchman, is brought here and is placed in detention, then the Children's Protection Council is also directly involved in order to be able to receive the child in question. Of course, the Marshals, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Institutions are also prepared in case IS'ers return to the Netherlands. You asked what we've been doing since last weekend or since Friday. I hope I've already done that. As I said, we are in close contact with the Turks not to be surprised here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Let me repeat my question: are there any concrete indications that we will soon be sending people back to the Netherlands? That's very relevant right now. I know the Cabinet doesn't want that. It seems a bit like a strategy where you stick your head in the sand and think: if I don't want it to happen, then I hope it doesn't. Worst-case scenario, it's gonna happen later, if you can still follow me. Then suddenly there will be active IS fighters at our borders. My second question is what agreements have been reached with other European countries. Because it may also be that they are not so much actively put on a plane as simply put across the border. This means that other allies, Member States, are confronted with our Dutch IS fighters. What is the strategy for this? In other words, how realistic is it that, in the short term, Turkey will actively expel people to the Netherlands, whether directly or through other countries around us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	Let me start by saying that the representation of the policy is not quite the right one. I'm gonna go back and tell you what the policy is. If an emigrated person, an IS'er, with Dutch nationality reports to a consulate or embassy and if nationality and such convincingly established, an extradition procedure is initiated. As soon as that person enters Dutch territory, arrest takes place and prosecution is started. That is the firm policy in the Netherlands. I have just mentioned the two ladies and gentlemen from the press. One of them has Dutch nationality, the other one no longer has Moroccan nationality. Even if such cases occur in the future, it will simply be tested against that policy that I have just outlined, because it will lead to trial and prosecution in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Now the Minister is not entirely answering my question, because I did not ask about people who actively report to the consulate to be actively returned to the Netherlands. I am talking here about people who have been arrested by Turkey and have been active IS fighters, men, who are likely to be transferred to the Netherlands in the short term. And I repeat my question: are there any indications that Dutch male IS fighters will be actively returned to the Netherlands in the short term? If so, are we prepared? If not, why not? Are we seriously considering that? That is the crux of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	I have already answered about being prepared, so I refer to the previous answer. Otherwise, I'd give you a whole repeat. On the other point, or is it known that there will be others in the short term, I said that we are in close contact with Turkey. At the moment, there are only the two women who have already been reported in the media. We keep a very clear finger on the pulse in the conversations there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	I must conclude, therefore, that we do not run the risk of a number of people, men, being actively deported by Turkey in the short term. We'll write that down now. If that information turns out to be different, we'll have a problem. Secondly, I asked whether agreements have now been reached with other countries around us. They too will be faced with this problem. Denmark and Germany were mentioned, but other Member States will follow. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	To start with the last one. Yes, we are in close consultation with other Schengen countries that have the same problem. As for the first, I said that we are in close contact with the Turks. It's about these two right now. I cannot give a 100% guarantee, but at the moment I am assuming that the Turkish government will take careful care of these talks. In short, at least that is good conversations, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is all vagueness, for years, with this minister when it comes to returning jihadists from the IS area, people who have left. We also know that it is the deepest personal conviction of this Minister of CDA House that you must bring those people back, that they can be converted back to a normal thinking and healthy life, that you must offer them mercy and that you must be able to talk to them in order to forgive them. I do know why there is this vagueness, because that personal conviction of the Minister is immediately coming to the fore. Send these people back to Northern Syria, if there are Dutch in between, because that's where they were arrested. And if not, I assume that the Minister's personal conviction has won. Or am I wrong, I ask him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	I fully support the cabinet policy I have just outlined, which is, moreover, clear and consistent in this for two years, so I do not think there can be much doubt about it. Getting people expelled elsewhere because they have Dutch nationality is the consistent policy of this cabinet. If someone with Dutch nationality reports to an embassy or consulate, they will be extradited and prosecuted and tried here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	GroenLinks has always said to the cabinet: make the most of it to bring people back and commit to the trial of IS fighters and deradicalisation of children. The cabinet has always hidden behind wishful thinking about local trial, solutions that do not appear to work in practice. Now we are forced by Turkey to take people back and forced by the judge to make an effort to bring children back. I urge this Minister to do so. Don't waste your energy on that rearguard fight, on wishing for local trial that's not gonna work. Take the lead, bet on trial of IS fighters here and bet on deradicalizing children. You are going to go further than wishful thinking and belief in solutions that are not going to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	I don't really hear a question, but it's good to say again that things are getting mixed up here. In my opinion, the cabinet has consistently applied this policy under the previous cabinet.................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then those will be taken into custody and prosecuted and tried. That is consistent policy. So I guess things are getting mixed up around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	The Minister tells what will happen when the Turks put someone with Dutch nationality, a jihadist, on the plane. Can he also outline what the Cabinet will do if an illegal stranger, so someone without valid papers, gets off the plane? Does that mean he'll go straight into alien detention? Is that where we're going? What's that gonna look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	I think it would be wiser to put that in a letter to the Chamber, and I can certainly undertake to do so again for the budget. I say that in all honesty, because then I'm really gonna be on my Secretary of State's property. We had a debate last Wednesday which unfortunately had to be interrupted by the events at Schiphol Airport. I'm very sorry about that, too. I was the one who broke that game on that matter. I didn't press a button, I want to emphasize. In any case, I would like to assure you that there will be an answer to this question by next Monday at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	The cabinet has written that it will begin the execution of the court's judgment. I ask the Minister whether starting up also means that the cabinet will consult with the United States about the offer they have made, and which the American ambassador says is still standing, to assist us in carrying out this judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	At the start of the performance we will take all the possibilities and all the points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	If Turkey sends people here, is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber? I don't need names and numbers, but I want to know that these people are coming here and what's gonna happen to them here. And then there's another matter. When nationality is taken away, Turkey says: those people are from the Netherlands, so we send them to the Netherlands. The Minister would have taken away nationality. What's he gonna do in such a case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	I will inform the Chamber in good time and the NCTV will do so if indeed people come here and we know that from the, in this case, Turkish side. I would like to stress once again that the contacts we have on this issue are so close and so careful that I really assume that we will get that information and not be surprised. I find it very difficult to speak as a dancer, but you must assume that in any case we will always assess their legal merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	The message that the Turks will send back active IS fighters has led to a lot of scare reactions, including in our country. I hear the Minister say that he now has no clues to think that there are people there who are being sent back to the Netherlands, but I would like to ask him something. When it turns out that this is the case, is the Netherlands sufficiently prepared for the safety risks that this would entail? I would like to add a second point to that, which touches on what Mr Van Raak has just said. Suppose the Dutch nationality has been taken away, but the prosecution would like to make a request for prosecution for these persons and ask the Minister to lift the junk declaration. How will the Ministry consider that request?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	With regard to the latter, I refer to the treatment in the Upper Chamber of February 2017. I believe it was on February 7, 2017. This point was discussed in detail in the First Chamber. At that time, my immediate predecessor made it clear that there is always a balance of interests here. National security is a very important aspect of this, let us be clear. I think it would be very dangerous to generalise this case, if that were not legally incorrect. In any case, this balance of interests is a very important aspect. Mrs Van der Graaf once again asked, in line with what Mrs Kuik asked earlier, how is the preparation going? I have regular consultations with the NCTV on this subject, and the NCTV consults with the relevant services. You have to think about Child Protection, but also about the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are really preparing ourselves with each other in great care for what might possibly be the case. Finally, I would like to point out that such an issue would have to cause a lot more concern to some of my fellow Members, because it is much larger numbers. That is why consultation with Schengen countries is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	We also took note of the judgment in the interim proceedings and took note with interest of the fact that the cabinet has appealed. In the meantime, however, we are concerned about any preparations for the children. Is it also taken very critically that it will certainly not apply to all children that they have to return to grandparents or family? For there are quite a few grandparents and family members who want to fully, but not at all, see what their daughters and sons may have been able to see. A place with grandparents or family members is thus about the last place on earth these children have to return to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	I have to say this with caution, because I come to the policy area of Mr Sander Dekker's portfolio, but I would like to say that this good preparation on this side of the Child Protection Council is certainly a very important point. By the way, I would like to emphasise very clearly that this is at the very end if there is a certain outcome from that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you.
