ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Then we have arrived at the final question, but I do not see the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport yet. Oh, that's where he comes in. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Just in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	Yeah, right on time; that's right. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP for his question to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport on the financial problems for municipalities in care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was with my colleague Lilian Marijnissen in Montfoort yesterday. Montfoort is a beautiful city, with 14,000 inhabitants. In Montfoort a large part of care for the elderly is in danger of disappearing. Nursing homes need to get out of there, because they wouldn't be profitable. Older people are now obliged to move to a district of Utrecht, at 45 minutes by public transport. The daily use is deleted there with one stroke of pens. I ask the Minister if he is familiar with the saying: you should not transplant old trees. That is what is going to happen to these people. They're losing care. The family also loses care and contact with their own partners or their own family in their own environment. The question to the Minister is what he thinks of that. How does he feel about small-scale care in a neighbourhood disappearing now, when we see on all sides that we only need more care, more daily spending, more guidance, but also more small-scale places in nursing homes? Is he willing to stand up for the people in Montfoort? Mr. Chairman. Municipalities are now calling massively about the huge deficits in the care of the elderly. The previous cabinet, which consisted of the VVD and the PvdA, has caused a huge blow in the care of the elderly. 700 million had to go on daily spending and 600 million had to go on domestic aid. 1,200 court cases took place last year because people do not get the care they need from the municipalities. Now the local authorities are calling with the message: we see that we can no longer keep caring for the elderly, the vulnerable elderly, with the budget we get from the government. Does the Minister recognize that image? Does he also think that it was stupid to shut down the nursing homes while at the same time cutting down municipal care? Does he recognize that was wrong? What is this minister going to do to meet these municipalities as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr President. In the coming years, the number of 75-plussers goes times two, the number of 90-plussers times three and the number of 100-plussers times four. That's all going to happen in the next 20 years. The number of people with dementia will double and the number of age-related diseases will increase significantly. This means that we need a lot of extra money at all for care for the elderly, whether that is on the side of the Empire, on the side of the health insurance companies or on the side of the health offices on the side of the municipalities. We'll take that into account. We need to check periodically to see if that's enough. But this year, for example, the nursing home care sector alone will receive an additional 1.5 billion. Of these, 0.5 billion is for quality, but one billion for the number of older people. That is simply the consequence of the ageing population and the increase in the number of older people. We will simply have to take that into account, and we will also have to take that into account when it comes to establishing the Community fund. We're doing that already. The Municipal Fund is also growing with the spending that the Empire makes. We agreed at the beginning of the cabinet period that we would make that calculation on the basis of the entire state budget. Growing healthcare expenditure on the part of the Empire also means growing healthcare expenditure on the part of the municipalities. Now, of course, I have seen the news that municipalities are nevertheless concerned that it is still insufficient and that it will have to be even more. We have agreed that once in a while we will evaluate how the Municipal Fund works and whether it takes sufficient account of demographics. That's what we're gonna do now. A number of motions have been passed, including here in the Chamber. That investigation's already started. In the spring, the results will be obtained. Of course, we're gonna check with each other to see if that's enough. The Empire has allowed municipalities to carry out their tasks and, of course, has allowed all other sectors to do so because of the number of older people, which will simply grow. It's not just money, by the way. We're gonna have to organize the care differently, too. We also have a lot of debate about this. We're gonna have that. Dan Montfoort. I know you visited there yesterday. I didn't get an invitation, so I wasn't there. I do know that you have announced parliamentary questions. Of course, I'll answer it neatly. That also gives me the opportunity to know a little bit better about what kind of institutions are involved and what the background to the decisions is. Because of your eye hairs and from a distance I'd think we'd need all the places in the nursing homes in the future, because the number of elderly people in the nursing homes is going to increase enormously. Let me promise that I will come back to these questions very precisely and very specifically at the moment when I have been able to get a bit more into that situation in Montfoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	The Minister answers some of my questions. I also asked him to look back on what has happened over the past few years. We have seen a huge blow to municipal care by the previous government: a billion-dollar savings, care homes closed and people who no longer get the care they need. I don't want to talk to an accountant here. I want to talk to a minister who cares. I don't want this minister to make the same mistakes he made when it comes to youth care. For two years we have had to complain, complain, ask and push to at least make the Minister recognise that there are huge deficits in youth care. It took him two years to see at least that there was a problem and he was going to do something. There is still no structural solution, but at least he sees it. I just want to prevent us from going through the same thing in the care of the elderly as in the care of young people, namely that the problems are getting even bigger, that even more people are losing their care and that the Minister is not going to think about how he is going to solve these problems for another year. So I'm gonna ask him one more time when he's gonna come to that realization. Because we don't need 20 monitors or investigations to do that. We know exactly what's going on. Read the paper! Check with municipalities! The deficits are now enormous. So I ask him what he is going to do this year to deal with the deficits in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	Let's check it out. First, there's a lot of extra money going to youth care. In the meantime, youth care is at 4.2 billion. That's more than youth care has ever been spent on. My answer is always there: with money alone, you're not gonna make it. We're really gonna have to do things differently there. The second is care for the elderly. Hundreds of millions more have been made available for community care and more than 1.5 billion more have been made available for nursing care alone. The municipal budgets grow this cabinet period by 5 billion. That money is not all for the care, certainly not. About half of them are for wage and price compensation, but municipal budgets are growing sharply. The question put on the table by the municipalities is, in my view, whether this will be sufficient for the coming years. That's just a question we need to face up to each other. We know that the number of older people is going to increase. We know we need more care. So we also know it's going to cost more money. To Mr Hijink and, incidentally, to other Members of Parliament, I always say that we are not going to solve it with money alone. You will also have to organize things differently in order to stand together in the future enough to give all the elderly the care they deserve. I work with that every day. We also have debates on this very regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is not the case that the municipalities are asking whether the money that has now been made available could perhaps be enough. No, the congregations are now issuing a cry for help. They give a warning: pay attention, this is going wrong, because we have such shortages that we cannot keep elderly care, domestic help and other forms of care in order! I also refer to the statements made by the successor of this minister in Rotterdam, CDA-alderman De Langen. He is alderman in Rotterdam and says that we underestimated the consequences at the time, in the case of decentralisation and in the case of austerity. So that was when this minister was the alderman there. I ask the Minister: does he say that after his successor? Does he also think that these problems have been underestimated and that they are asking for a solution? Does he also admit that we need to intervene now so that we are not too late, as happened in the case of child care? My question is: do not dive away from the problems that everyone sees, to establish in two years' time that we are too late, but take action in time and now make sure that the municipalities are able to do what this minister wants them to do, namely to give the best possible care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	I very much agree with the latter. That is indeed the task of the Empire. The task of the Empire is to enable municipalities to provide the care needed. I also agree, of course, that the fact that decentralisation was accompanied by a substantial reduction in the budget did not at least facilitate the task. We've changed that before. That's absolutely true. But we're really in a different context now. We're in the context that money isn't even our biggest problem. Our biggest problem is whether we can find enough people to work in healthcare. When I look at preparing the budgets to tackle the consequences of ageing in the here and now, money is really not our biggest problem. Our biggest problem is how we're gonna get care organized for all those old people. Because their number is going to double over the next 20 years. That's where our biggest problem lies. That is also where our greatest task lies. That's the task we have to face together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I shall now go to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have a follow-up question. The CDA understands the concerns of the municipalities in view of the ageing population. Does the Minister also understand that these are projections of the VNG? Does the Minister agree with these projections or is he going to do further research?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	It's not the VNG's prognosis. About six municipalities have made that prognosis, I believe. There are, of course, many comments to be made on this prognosis. The number of older people increases by about 2% a year, for example. A forecasted increase in municipal expenditure for the same elderly by 7% a year is therefore a little more generous, I would think. But maybe it's six municipalities that happen to be very ageing. Then we can do it again, of course. That's why I think you need to look at this at the level of the entire community fund. The Municipal Fund is the money flow that goes to the municipalities to do all the tasks, including the Wmo tasks. During this cabinet period, the Municipal Fund is growing by 5 billion, because the government expenditure is also growing significantly and municipal expenditure is growing with the government expenditure. At the same time, towards the future, we really need to look at whether that is enough. Is the normalization system, as it is called with a complicated word, okay? Are the indicators to predict how much care will be needed in the future, including the good indicators? That is currently being evaluated. The results come in in the spring and of course we will discuss with municipalities how we will deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	But summary? Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet is no longer allowed to ask a question. Do you agree with the prognosis, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	The question was whether I agree with the prognosis. On the basis of this small number of municipalities, a number of comments can be made. You have to look at the municipalities as a whole. That's being done right now. In spring, the results will come and that is when we will talk about this with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u18	The Minister says a few times that money is not the biggest problem, but that the biggest problem is the organisation of care. I do not think there is anyone here who says that staff shortages are not a problem, but the Minister should not dwell on this question, namely that it is also about money. The Minister is right to point out that billions are being spent on nursing care. That is very important, but let's remember that more than 90% of the elderly live at home, and let's remember that with extra effort on domestic help we can make people live longer at home in a pleasant way. So that it is attractive and from the perspective of those older people themselves and that it saves us a lot of costs. Why is this minister not prepared to acknowledge this and put that bag of money where it is most needed, namely in those municipalities, so that they can actually provide this household help?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u19	Until the last sentence, I fully agreed with you, because indeed it is not just nursing care. It is certainly also the care home, the neighborhood care and the Wmo. That is why I have just indicated that we not only have additional resources in nursing care, but also in community care and also for municipal care, we have considerable additional resources in the coming period. But I also keep saying that money alone is not the solution to the issues of the future. We're really gonna have to think about how we're gonna organise that care differently, so we're ready. We already have 1.2 million people working in healthcare. If the number of older people is going to double, you will never be able to do so with the same 1.2 million, but there is not suddenly the double number of people available on the labour market. In short, we will have to organise this care differently in all areas of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u20	The Minister himself is starting his own answer, and I am pleased to say how much the ageing population is going to increase. In doing so, he makes it clear that he sees the problem. Of course, we cannot solve that problem one-two-three on this issue. I very much agree with Mrs Ellemeet and we already have a shortage of staff, but there is also a need for money and especially for the people who live at home. Now I understand you're going to investigate a few things, but you see the urgency. What are you going to do before spring to prevent people from moving out, moving out of their homes, or cutting off their daily spending? Those people may not have such a long life anymore, but the quality of their lives has to be good, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u21	Absolutely. What we have to do as a government is to enable the municipal government to do its job properly. We must make sufficient funds available for this. So that's what we're doing. This cabinet period is about a plus of 5 billion for all municipal tasks, including municipal care. We also have to prepare for the future at the same time. These investigations are not about the here and now; they are about whether we are actually ready for the future. The municipalities have now made a prognosis for a few municipalities. We'll have to do that for all the congregations. The results will come in spring. Then we decide on the future. But in the here and now we have enough financial resources to enable municipalities to do so, and my view is that we do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the oral questions. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
