ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin Tuesday as usual with oral Question Time. Today we begin with Mr Van Dam's question on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for Legal Protection, who replaces the Minister for Justice and Security, about fear among criminal attorneys after the murder of Derk Wiersum. I call Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last Friday night there was a meeting in the Red Hat of lawyers, judges and officers. There was thought about the life and role of lawyer Derk Wiersum. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for Legal Protection for being there, together with the Minister for Justice and Security, and also speaking from the cabinet. Very good! Mr. Chairman. In this country, we must not and must not bow to violence and the threat of violence, not now or never. This is not just a question of lawyers, judges and officers; in fact, everyone working under the rule of law must be protected from this threat, from district agent to mayor and from parole officer to the prison employee. Everyone simply needs to be able to do their job without arguments other than the substance of the case playing a role. This requires enormous longer-term efforts, and that is what my question to the Minister is about. How does the Minister intend to deal with this, especially in the long term? We know how heavily charged the police are at the moment. Don't you think it's time for the military to get involved? How does the Minister guarantee continuity of action? Because if you promise people you'll protect them, you have to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam is right: I too was at that meeting in the Red Hat with many Amsterdam lawyers. I have also made a number of visits in the last week, together with my colleague Ferd Grapperhaus, in Breda and Rotterdam, to talk to the toga professions about the traces that the murder of Derk Wiersum left with the profession, with the people who stand for the rule of law. Of course, it's terrible to lose a colleague, but we also see feelings of insecurity, including attorneys. That's very understandable. Three things have been done, a number of things in the short term. Immediately after the murder of Derk Wiersum, the NCTV took a number of measures for the immediate security of a number of directly involved parties. In addition, Ferd Grapperhaus and I have sat down with both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Board as well as the Dutch order of lawyers to discuss what we should do and where lawyers can go with their questions. A hotline has also been set up for this purpose. If attorneys feel like it's not right or if there's a real serious threat, they can make contact with the NCTV via their local blanket. It will then be possible to examine what measures are needed. In addition, the question is what is needed in the future. That is more the long term to which Mr Van Dam refers. We have agreed to start working groups around the profession to map that out. We don't have any ready-made answers. It's gonna be impossible to give everyone security 24 hours a day, and neither do lawyers. So you need to see where that is really necessary. But you can see what it takes to increase resilience and to set up a demand bar where one can go with direct questions. Where there is a concrete threat or where the severity of threats is considered very serious, we want to ensure that what is needed is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to thank the Minister for this answer, but my point is, above all, how this is going to be manned in terms of capacity. I think it is very realistic for the Minister to say that he does not yet have all the solutions. That's a real sense of reality. But I sometimes join the police and already see how much capacity is going to be in it to do this necessary work. I don't meet cops who say, "Well, we shouldn't do it." It's not in there. But this work is at the expense of the presence of the police in the neighborhood and we were already concerned about that. So I ask this Minister very specifically whether it is not time to ask for assistance from other public services in this area too. In it already mentioned the Marechaussee. I'd like to put that in the light of the question where we're going with each other. An anonymous lawyer has now been assigned to a key witness. I think that's out of the question. We have already had the situation of a court hearing with closed doors. This is in fact already a breach of public access in our country when it comes to legal proceedings. What's the perspective? Where are we going? Are we going to some sort of secret jurisdiction when it comes to these serious criminals? Are we only taking these measures because at the moment there is a certain group of suspects who have so much criminal power and resources that we cannot resist it, or is this a trend that is more widespread? Perhaps, in the light of my questions, the Minister would particularly like to look again at whether he, the cabinet, sees that in the coming period we are fulfilling that legitimate desire of people to be protected with capacity, because that is where my great concern lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	I share that concern and I share the dilemmas Mr van Dam points out. You saw immediately after the murder in the week that it led to all sorts of measures that you really want to avoid in a constitutional state. At the same time, I understand the need for judges at such a time to consider the need for openness on the one hand and the need for security measures on the other. Of course, in an open democracy, we want to be as public as possible and that lawyers can do their work safely, just like officers and judges. Where necessary, the government must stand alongside them and also provide security and protection where there are concrete threats. You ask what that will look like in the future, what it will demand of capacity and whether you should not use other services. I don't think it's real to say that the KMar does have unused capacity and that you can fly it in. I think we should take a more realistic look at what this is asking for. I think we have already had a first debate on this in the General Political Reviews. When it comes to undermining, but also to what is needed to properly protect and secure the gay professions in the fight against organised crime, there may be a need for more, including in terms of additional capacity. My colleague will soon come to the House of Representatives with a proposal to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr Van Dam, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr President, I should like to conclude. I met a lawyer recently and he said to me: I think it is very good that there is now attention to our security, to our security, but in a while there is another priority, there is something else that has the attention, and then I have to see if it succeeds, despite all good intentions. That is the kind of comment I would like to make, and I think that we should all take note of it. That is why it may not be the last time that I will discuss this with the cabinet. I think the measures taken so far are very good, but I am concerned about longer-term continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u10	I hear the Minister saying that there are various groups of people talking: the lawyers, the prosecutors and the judges. That is very good, but I do miss one group and those are the police officers, not just because of the issue of capacity. They are the ones who have to carry out the security of the persons. Agents maintain the rule of law, so they are also targeted and may also need protection. Are they talking to them too? Will they be involved in this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr Van Dam, President of the Commission. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words about Mr Van Dam. We can't let this go down. You can count on it. I can also tell you that at the last Council of Ministers this was always one of the important issues on the agenda. In the direction of Mrs Helder, I say yes, you are right. It is not just about the judiciary, the lawyers and the prosecutors, but it is wider. It's also about the police, but it's also about parole, for example. Look at the interview with Johan Bac from a few days ago or from a week ago. It's also about the DJI. We see these threats coming back to different places in the criminal justice chain. The NCTV has now said: we are starting with these three toga professions, but of course we are also entering into discussions with these other professions, as well as with journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u12	Yeah, and the question about the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u13	It's part of that second ring. I'm sure we'll take the police with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u14	Three weeks after the horrific murder of Derk Wiersum, it is indeed high time to face the consequences for our rule of law. Because lawyers must be able to do their work safely and undisturbed in the rule of law. There are a lot of questions to ask, for example about the direction. What is the direction when it comes to security issues? Could people possibly also be protected against their will if there is reason to do so? There are all kinds of questions to ask, but so far we haven't heard anything from the cabinet. There seems to be an analysis. There are many statements in the media, but there are no concrete proposals yet. I find that worrying, particularly in terms of capacity. Because we already knew that the need was very high with the services and especially with the police. We read in the newspaper that the chief of police says, "We've really fallen through the hoofs because of what needs to be done." This removes capacity elsewhere and this replaces other important police work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u15	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u16	When will the cabinet tell us what is going to happen, even in terms of capacity? We've been asking for that for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u17	My colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, has promised to do so within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u18	So the Chamber gets information about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u19	Yeah, in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u20	In a few weeks. I am going to Mr Van den Berge of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The assassination of Dirk Wiersum is, of course, an attack on our rule of law. It's important that judges and lawyers know their way around. So far we have heard that many proposals are being made in the media, but there is also a great deal of uncertainty about them. How exactly is that gonna get shape? It's really important that we get plans very quickly. I hear they say "within a few weeks." It is really important that it responds to the crucial question: how do we ensure sufficient capacity in the long term to protect the protectors of our rule of law, judges and lawyers? How are we gonna guarantee that? How do we ensure that this is not at the expense of regular police work? I urge the Minister to deal with this within a few weeks, so that we can still involve it in the budgetary discussions. It now raises a great deal of uncertainty and needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u22	I agree with Mr Van den Berge. Of course there are a lot of questions and of course it is also fresh. We have really had to take a number of steps. That was the top priority. I can assure you that we are also very close to the Dutch order of lawyers. Last Friday I spoke to some of the most directly involved. They said: we are very pleased with the way this is really taken seriously by both the Ministry and the NCTV. The question of what is needed for the more medium term requires equally good consideration. We have to do this together, and that is certainly also the issue of capacity. If you do something extra, you can't say: that will solve itself. So that's a complicated issue, but we're definitely going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u23	I understand that this is also the case with regard to the budget for Justice and Security?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u24	I suspect that will be in the Chamber before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u25	My colleagues have already asked a lot of pertinent questions. I understand that something is going to come up in a number of weeks, at least on those capacity questions, but several points have, of course, been raised. What are we gonna do with the key witness scheme? Can we still maintain it in a decent way? How do we deal with public access to criminal proceedings? In a few weeks' time, will we at least be given the first impetus for answers to these questions? Is that how I understand the Minister? Or should we wait longer for those answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u26	I suspect there are a number of much more fundamental things in it. How do you deal with key witnesses? How do you deal with monetary rewards? How do you deal with anonymity in criminal proceedings? Those are things that are much more on the trial side of criminal law. For example, how do you deal with the confidentiality that a lawyer has in the relationship with his clients? Sometimes things can also come up that feel like a threat. A lawyer may then ask: how do I deal with that if I want to make that known, for example towards...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u27	That is also Mr Grothuizen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u28	I think we should take this one step at a time. In the short term, we need to look at what is first needed in terms of undermining and increasing the level of protection. Then there will still be a number of more fundamental questions for which we may need a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u29	I forgot an impervious question. That's why I'm coming back. That's the next one. We all know from the media, of course, that there may be one very specific group of suspects responsible for the misery we are facing. I am not going to talk about individual criminal cases here, but I am extremely concerned about this. Would the Minister also be prepared to deal specifically with this in that letter he sends to the Chamber, in so far as it allows, and to indicate whether or not all the means are being put into action to arrest and bring those people to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u30	You can assume that this is currently the top priority for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. My colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, has already said that more is needed in the fight against organised crime. We also said that we know that this might cost extra money. How many, we're looking at right now. But in the letter you get, this is one of the things we'll go into.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you.
