ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u1	Welcome again to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. This debate concerns the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture on the future of dairy farming. I call Mr Futselaar on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr President, I always ask for the most exciting debates. Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested almost a year ago. The result was two events. The first was the opinion of the LTO and NZO on the definition of land-relatedness. They came with a number of recommendations, such as 65% protein production from own land, neighbourhood contracts, the use of house lots and possibilities for feed-fertilisation agreements in the immediate vicinity. That is not necessarily the definition that the SP would use for ground-boundity, but it is a definition. At the time, the Minister responded positively to the proposal in a general sense. After that, it seemed to go a little further to sleep. The second event was the GRAS Committee of Network Fundamental, which also came with its own, future-proof definition of ground-boundity. They argue that the main difference is that only manure produced by soil binding can be used on the farm itself, possibly within a radius of 20 kilometres around it. The Minister expressed his rejection of this definition and referred further to the reform of manure legislation, which we are still waiting for. Mr. Chairman. The SP is much better in that last definition than in the first, but for us it is more important that serious efforts were made last year to finally define the concept of groundboundness, which is rather vague and has been used by everyone for years as it came out. We've been a year. The Minister presented an agricultural vision. The term "ground-based" is mentioned once more, limited only to the relationship between management and land available for agriculture. It is also stated that more land-boundness would be a natural consequence of more circular farming. I'd say it's the other way around. If you want circular agriculture, you're gonna have to have more ground-boundness. It seems that the committees that have come up with definitions have been a little for nothing. At the very moment when we come to a definition, the concept is out of favour and we launch the concept of circular agriculture. This is defined by everyone, especially in this Chamber, in their own way. There is no doubt that once again there are committees working on what exactly circular agriculture is and how they can make it fit into their little circle. That is why I said that this debate could stand for a year. I would like to call for the finalisation of the previous discussion: what is ground-boundness? The Minister is working on manure legislation. I ask her to include soil density in the manure legislation as a legally defined concept, so that we can also make real meters in this area. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The future of dairy farming according to dairy farming as represented by the big boys of LTO and NZO, who have not always proven to have sent the best future scenario for dairy farming to the Chamber in lobby letters. I remind you all of the great phosphate drama, on the instinct of these clubs. Today I read that the CDA believes that dairy farming deserves a stable policy and therefore does not want any additional requirements in addition to the current rules. I would nevertheless like to draw the attention of the CDA to all the necessary policies to be taken to meet nature's goals, climate goals and the growing awareness that animals are living beings with consciousness and feeling. So it doesn't help to wait. If you want stable policies, we are incredibly in agreement with each other, it is very important to start sensible plans in time so that everyone has time to switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u5	If Mrs Ouwehand thinks she has to quote, she has to quote the full story on the farm.nl site. I responded to the call, at least it came to my attention, that the SP wanted to change all kinds of things around ground bondage and so on. My reaction to this was: I shall be repeating it in a moment. Leave the dairy farming politically alone. Mrs. Ouwehand already gets it, I think. If you quote me, do this completely. Is Mrs Ouwehand prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u6	I can read the quote: CDA member Jacco Geurts believes that dairy farming deserves a stable policy and therefore does not want to impose any additional requirements in addition to the current regulations on land-based farming. "The government must give the farmer himself the opportunity to make choices," he says. I think that has been correctly quoted. I can read a longer part, but I think this is the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u7	The SP started and I responded to it. I will repeat that in a moment and then you can interrupt me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. The good news is, therefore, let us say what is positive: we agree that dairy farming deserves a stable policy. But where the CDA goes wrong, I would like to remind him that the phosphate drama is 'leave them alone and let them make their own choices'. That's exactly what happened. And at the end of the song a phosphate rights system had to be put in place, a phosphate reduction plan was written by LTO and NZO, it is always forgotten, but the sector itself proposed it and went 160,000 cows early to slaughter. I don't think anyone was happy about it and call parties like the SP, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals to prevent this. We agree that livestock farming deserves a stable policy, but we do not do so by releasing it and, at a very late stage, putting in place measures that are inevitable. That's the plea. Then I have another compliment in the direction of the CDA. Old-CDA Minister Gerrit Braks I have quoted him many times already. If you want to do this wisely for the long term, keep the number of animals limited to the soil you have, grazing livestock units. Don't keep more animals than the amount of soil you have to feed them yourself and the amount of soil you have to run out of manure. I'll fill it in a little bit further with the additional requirements. Also set production restrictions per animal, otherwise you will get maximum production. More sustainable farmers are already warning us that the definition that LTO and NZO want to use for land-boundness will lead everyone to focus on maximum protein production of those grasslands. Fertilizers and monocultures, what good is that? Do it wisely in its entirety! Look at all the terms we have to meet. Then you come up with a definition of ground-boundness that is actually ground-bound. Then you come up with much more animal-friendly proposals by maximizing the production per animal and opting for grazing for all cows... text from an adopted motion with the support of D66 and the PVV. Then you have stable policies that are future-proof. The need to reduce the number of animals we keep in dairy farming is inevitable. A good definition of groundboundness is one of the elements that can help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you. I call Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. As already announced, the following text: "President. All economic sectors deserve a stable policy. Today we are talking about dairy farming. In the light of recent history, it deserves, in particular, a stable policy. The CDA believes that the government must ensure that the farmer is given the opportunity to make his own choices about how he or she is going to do it." Right now, we've gone through regulations. Together with the new European Commission, the Minister will have to work towards real simplification and a robust manure system. The forthcoming European elections are very important for agriculture. It's about something. In December 2015, with my motion adopted by the Chamber, I asked for simplification of manure policy. The process of rethinking manure policy has really started under this Minister. How are we doing with that? I'm asking the Minister. And how does the Minister in Europe put on the agenda that a simplification of manure legislation is necessary? My expectation is that many more Member States will have completed the increased complexity. My German party colleague, CDU Agriculture Minister Julia Klöckner, has already expressed his opinion on this. Mr. Chairman. The Committee's opinion contains a very good proposal that is also included in the Fertilisers Act, namely the possibility of feeding manure or neighbourhood contracts. For example, a dairy farmer can place his manure locally in exchange for feed without owning the land. This benefits local circles and also young farmers and farmers who are not yet able to buy land for the animals they keep. The report sent to the Chamber states only: "The law on soil-based growth has less limit on the number of cows." But that limitation of the number of cows is not the purpose of that law. That law aims to promote ground-boundness. The Fertilisers Act is the limit. Why not local loops and promote young farmers and peasants? Finally, Mr President. The sector proposes that land ownership should come in particular from the sector itself. And I agree. For example, pasture milk can retain a plus on the milk price. This is how farmers earn something from their efforts. It is also important for farmers and milk cooperatives to be strong in relation to the supermarkets. What is the position with regard to the inclusion in the competition rules of the explicit authorisation of agricultural cooperation and the prohibition of unfair commercial practices?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr Geurts is a considerably longer agricultural spokesperson than I am, but, certainly from 2013, there has been a constant debate on land-basedness. How should you use it, what does it mean for the sector et cetera? My first question to Mr Geurts is: isn't it a pity that we're actually leaving the concept behind? There were a number of proposals for a definition, but we are now moving on to circular agriculture, because that is the new thing. And then we're gonna discuss that again. Isn't that just a waste of work, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u12	I'm trying to put the phrase "sin of work." It is in my mind that Mr Futselaar wants a tightening up of the Law on soil-based growth livestock farming. That would not be in line with what I have just said, that we should create peace in the sector. If we had looked more closely at this when we were dealing with the law... Given history, I just want peace and quiet in the sector. The sector is not in a position to make any changes at the moment. We shouldn't do that to these family businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u13	I understand that to a large extent. I can even go with it for part of it. My goal is not so much peace as the promotion of ground-boundness. I imagine that you will come to a formula where feed-fertilizer contracts are part of, but also some other things, so to speak. Is it a closed book for Mr Geurts anyway, because he says: am I going for rest? Does Mr Geurts simply not want a tightening or does he simply not want a change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u14	Life is always changing and situations can also change. So you should never say that you never want to do that. But right now, I would prefer to create real peace in that sector, because they just deserve it. But I'm always open to things that can do better and if there's a win-win in there for both sides, I have an open attitude. But I do fall back on what I said: primary rest in that sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u15	I'm still trying with a specific, direct question. If Mr Geurts is in favour of peace, does he recognise that the CDA was not very happy to release this sector altogether, because a phosphate right system had to be introduced afterwards? Does the CDA learn from this and does it recognise that this has caused unrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u16	This day is progressing and I have another debate this afternoon in my mind in which Mrs Ouwehand also wanted to take everyone's measure. She put her own first, because the rest isn't right. I don't think that's how we're gonna get along. I would like to remind Mrs Ouwehand of December 2016. At that time I tabled a motion with the SP which asked the government to examine whether, in the long term, phosphate rights for dairy farming could be linked to the hectares of fodder used in the farm, so that dairy farming could develop on a land-based basis. It didn't get a majority, and that's what I'm dealing with. We now have a new coalition, and this minister has presented her vision of circular agriculture. I think this too will slowly become a part of that. That is why I do not come forward with any new motions. I would like to say first of all that I also said it to the SP Group, which is on the front line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u17	That was a huge avoidance followed by the argument: I once tabled a motion and so it was not my fault. The CDA, together with the VVD and other parties in this Chamber, was a great advocate of releasing the sector after the expiry of the milk quota? The CDA opposed a form of production regulation and then the phosphate rights had to be introduced. That, first let go and then the phosphate reduction plan, the CDA has all supported. My question is very simple: does the CDA recognise that this has not been such a sensible choice and that it has caused unrest? I would find that profit if that group here were to say that peace is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mrs. Ouwehand always wants to point the finger at a culprit. I'm not going in that frame. I would just like to point out that you, Mrs Ouwehand, asked about the same question to our esteemed former colleague Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP Group. Mr Dijkgraaf said: but Mrs Ouwehand, you do remember that Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf also discussed this in 2013 about releasing the milk quota with the directors? Mrs Ouwehand forgets that for a moment, because we simply need to find a victim. I'm not in on that! I say to Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u19	I have worked in care for 11 years and I know the value of rest, cleanliness and regularity very well. But is it not at the heart of the Commission's report that there should be no peace, but that there should be change? Are these four objectives, the four ambitions proposed by the Commission, endorsed by Mr Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u20	For the listeners who are watching: those four building blocks in the opinion are self-sufficiency, neighborhood contracts, house lots with enough grass and power supplies at close range. I believe that these key points also form part of the Minister's policy in this circular agriculture, as far as it could not be done now. I'm saying that, because a number of things can already be done. So I say to Mr Moorlag: yes, we support those four building blocks in the opinion. We never made a secret out of that. We will have to do a number of things with the minister on the feed-fertiliser contracts, but this is largely in the direction of what has been presented as circular agriculture in the Minister's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u21	I do not know what kind of debate there has been this afternoon, but I think I am listening a little bit to Mr Geurts' sounds a little tormented. It is not my intention at all to provoke this, because I think that we should move towards a better balance between economics and ecology. Does Mr Geurts share that there is no balance between the economy and ecology at the moment in agriculture, particularly in dairy farming? Is Mr Geurts prepared, in addition to his plea for peace, to give room for a change that could also bring the CDA's stewardship goals a little closer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u22	First of all about Mr Geurts' bitterness: well, that's not so bad at all. He wasn't part of the debate this afternoon either. He was sort of between Mrs Ouwehand and Mr De Groot of D66 on the subject of the general consultation of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I have followed that with particular interest. What matters to me at the heart of the matter is that we are talking here again about a balance and so on. Yeah, I could do better. The Minister's vision on circular agriculture has also been presented for this purpose. In particular, I would like to say to Mr Moorlag that read the final points of that view. There are elements that answer that question: yes, it can be better and we are not there yet, but you do not jump from today to tomorrow from the basement to the attic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u23	Good. You'd finished your speech, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u24	Have a nice evening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I call Mr Smeulders on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's so nice to be able to do an agricultural debate as a Member of Parliament. Agriculture is one of the main reasons why I joined GroenLinks at the age of 14. Tonight I am replacing my colleague Laura Bromet, who is also active today as an informant in North Holland. We are talking today about the report of the Committee on Ground Equality, a committee set up by agricultural organisations LTO and NZO. It is clear from that report that there is a real need for a different approach to agriculture. That is what their own organisations are arguing for. Mr. Chairman. My first feeling when I read the report was a bit of a déjà vu. When I was group chairman in Brabant eight years ago, we were very busy with the opinions of the Van Doorn Committee. These advices also indicated that things had to be different in agriculture. Then came the SER Committee on Sustainable Farming, led by Mr Nijpels. It had to make things different, too. The Rli report Sustainable and healthy, which was debated two weeks ago, also indicated: it really has to be different in agriculture. Now there's the report we're talking about today. Mr. Chairman. One feeling that we as GroenLinks do get is that a lot of paper is produced and that in principle the intentions are still good, but unfortunately the actions are left behind. Despite the fine words, the change is actually going the other way, the livestock sector is getting more and more intensive. So, unfortunately, paper is patient. The Minister himself came up with her vision of circular agriculture. One of our most important questions for today is how the Minister's vision relates to the proposed plans we are talking about. We haven't received a cabinet response, so we're really looking forward to that. What's the Minister gonna do with it? As far as we are concerned, today's big question is: what does the Minister mean under ground? Mr Futselaar rightly asked that question just now. Is land-based agriculture, according to the Minister, circular agriculture? Dairy farming has traditionally been of a land-based nature. How this groundboundness has developed I thought: I'm going to find out in the run-up to this debate is very difficult to indicate, because those definitions have also often changed. So I wonder if the Minister will be able to indicate something about this. In the past, the sector was largely ground-bound. Unfortunately, that is not the case anymore. However, it is now argued that 65% of land binding on the basis of own production of protein-rich crops should be used as a standard. We think that's very little. I would like to know from the Minister whether she also thinks that this percentage should be higher. In that area, we can go much better, like the SP, in the opinion of fundamental. I am also very interested in the Minister's response to this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, something about our nature. GroenLinks is concerned, also in relation to the report, about biodiversity targets and soil orientation. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this. Does she agree with GroenLinks that additional policies are needed? Because we are afraid that if you put any more effort into protein-rich crops, that will have real consequences for the already falling population of insects and meadow birds. And that can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you. Mr Moorlag on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we want to be sure of good food, a healthy agricultural sector and a future in which there is a balance between economy and ecology, the system must change. The current system is not sustainable. We simply have too many emissions of manure, nitrogen and phosphate, we do too much predatory work on the soil and on our resources, and there is too much destruction or wear and tear of nature and landscape. So something must change, because you can say that there is an ecological crisis and then, in my view, it is difficult to argue in favour of keeping the peace. But where I plead for change, I do say that change must be done in a calm manner. I believe that the Commission's opinion on soil cohesion is a building block to this end. Not a complete solution, but a useful building block. I appreciate the initiators. The sector, governments and NZO have worked well together. That is an approach that appeals to the PvdA. Rather a truly broad approach than parties that continue to target each other from their shooter's pits. A balance has been sought here between ambition and realism, and that is very appealing to me. The question now is how this is going to translate into the development of the vision of circular agriculture. That is my central question to the Minister: how are we going to translate these ambitions, these targets, into results? Is there only room in the future for companies that meet these criteria? Then how do we help those companies that do not yet meet these criteria to reach that level? For Mr. Geurts is right; you do not jump from the basement to the attic at once. But the fact that a leap has to be made is obvious. Otherwise there will be other parties who will push if they don't jump. That's what we need to avoid. The question is also how we will guarantee this fundamentally. I think private parties have a role to play in this too. I think about the food industry, I think about the financial sector, I think about the retailers. Is the Minister prepared, together with those parties, to see this best practice, as described, not as a target at any time, but as a lower limit for corporate social responsibility in the sector? I believe that this is the future for the sector. A sector that is compliant with laws and regulations. A sector where there is no room for spoilers, but for entrepreneurs. A sector where animal welfare is better. And a sector where the principle of ground-boundness is better secured. Mr. Chairman. It is time for application of the AMEN principle: Making appointments And Coming to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u29	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Mrs Lodders has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I sometimes get the question of why we do not always support debates like this, which makes it a 30-member debate instead of just a normal debate, such as this evening's debate on the Committee on Agriculture and the future of dairy farming. We did not support this debate. Of course, it is a good thing that the sector is thinking about the future, but this debate is premature. There is no other sector at the moment, I might add, where there is so much movement. We have had the phosphate debate, where for many people there is still a great deal of uncertainty. For many people, this subject has not yet been completed. The ink of the Law on Ground-Bound Growth or the Law on Responsible Growth dairy farming is barely dry or there is again a table about a next step. The government agreement agreed on simplification of manure legislation. I refer to the Minister's agricultural vision on circular agriculture. Then there's the climate debate. At the moment there is a draft climate agreement which calls for a lot of farmers, and I would like to say that it is delivered immediately. Mr. Chairman. This debate is premature. It's causing trouble for the farmers. Let's not drive each other crazy about taking a next step every time before the first steps are completed. Give the sector time to take care of all the things we are doing here in this Chamber. Let us not forget, then, that the other sectors which have links with dairy farming are also being asked for everything from these farmers. Give the sector time to implement and bring to a successful conclusion all these measures that have been launched. There are a number of points; predecessors have also referred to them. When we talk about the simplification of manure legislation and the elaboration of the Minister's vision, my party also has wishes. But I am not going to burden this debate with that. We would like to talk about this and then I will bring forward my input at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u31	I do not understand very well why this debate would be immeasurable. Mrs Lodders is always the MP who says that we really should be very proud of our farmers, and so am I. It has been a number of farmers who, together with the interbranch organisations, have chosen to separate this report. Well, then you'd have to appreciate that report a little bit, wouldn't you? Then it deserves to be discussed in this Chamber, doesn't it? It surprises me, however, that Mrs Lodder says that it is immeasurable, or rather inappropriate, to talk about a report which, in any case, is carried by the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u32	I think it is premature because there are a number of other areas in this Chamber that affect the sector. I mentioned the Law on Responsible Growth in Dairy Farming. The ink was barely dry or a different definition of the soil density of dairy farming was mentioned. The Minister's vision has been announced. We had a letter on that. I believe that we will be informed of further developments before the summer. The sector doesn't know what it's up to yet. We have agreed in the government agreement, partly on the initiative of the VVD, on simplification of the manure law. We think that is very important. We really need to take a number of steps to make it easier for those farmers, but also to ensure that some of our own wishes are close to each other, using fertilizers and residuals to anchor in legislation. Let's just take those steps before we hit the next picket pole again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u33	First of all, I would like to say that there is no committee where the word'regation agreement' is so often used. It is usually not so good with marriages where very often the prenup is looked at. That's what I'm saying. I also hear Mrs Lodder's implicit plea that Mr Geurts should not change too much. Does Mrs Lodder realise that for almost every entrepreneur the environment is changing rapidly, that there is a great deal of dynamism and that it is precisely a sign of entrepreneurship to deal with change and crises? Here we have an ecological crisis. Doesn't it call for change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u34	If one sector is changing, it is dairy farming. I have been allowed to speak on agriculture in general since 2012. When I look at the problems we have had that affect dairy farming, there are quite a few. That is why I started my speech with that. In my view, there is no sector that has had to take so many steps, perhaps in a positive but certainly in a negative sense. In any case, we are asking for a great deal of change in this sector, which is in full development. I may refer too much from Mr Moorlag to the coalition agreement, but I am glad that I can do so. I am pleased that a review of manure policy is being carried out, because that is, of course, a accumulation of rules and of things that the farmer has to deal with. The wishes that your party has had in the past are now going to be effective and I think that is absolutely beautiful. But then you should not be working on the next step again without knowing where you are coming up with the reform of manure legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u35	I have to laugh a little bit about the fact that a debate has been on the table for eleven months, and that the first contribution of the VVD is that it is an early debate. I honestly think we should have had this debate even 22 months ago, because I wonder what the problem is. Could it be that the debate on this is not so much premature, but that Mrs Lodders and her coalition partners simply do not like it, this concept, after you have published an agricultural vision in which you have to use a magnifying glass to look for the concept of "ground bondage"? Isn't it just very pleasant to pretend that this whole discussion never existed? Isn't that the essence of the problem here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u36	Now Mr Futselaar pretends that there has never been talk of land-boundness, as if there has never been talk of the use of fertilizers, between farmers, between dairy farmers and farmers, for example. In my opinion, the use of manure at a short distance from each other is also a point you would like to see. These are all points that are often raised here in this Chamber. That's not settled from today to tomorrow. Unfortunately, I'd almost like to say. So we are in the process of settling these matters, and then you come up with another question to deal with the following. I object to this, and that is why I say that this debate is premature. First of all, let us take the steps we want to take. And then we're gonna see what else it takes to take another step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u37	If Mrs Lodder has listened carefully to my speech, then my main question is: let us agree on the definition of ground-boundity. That's not even about the policy you're pursuing, it's about having the same debate. And if there's anything that characterizes this committee, I'd almost say, it's that we talk side by side all the time. But now it seems like it's almost turned into some sort of taboo. We should not debate it, and now we are all going to focus on circular agriculture. That is the new state of salvation on the horizon, I say as a socialist, and we can now fight for three years about the definition of circular agriculture. That's not how we're gonna get along, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u38	No, Mr President, Mr Futselaar is also failing himself because we are not just talking about the Minister's agricultural vision. I might even like to say: was it true that we could only talk about this agricultural vision and that we have solved all the other issues. But we're also dealing with a phosphate file. A large part of the farmers who are looking at this debate at home are still in uncertainty. We didn't solve that. And then there is the review of manure legislation. I think my colleague Geurts has asked about the planning of the reform of manure legislation, or else it was someone else. Well, then I'm gonna run out on those guys. When are we going to take those first steps? This is important to ensure that we deal with this manure disposal in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u39	Very briefly, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u40	I am pleased to point out in this context that I asked for a debate on the agricultural vision when it was published, which was blocked at the time by the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u41	Why? Because you can present a vision on the main lines. At the time, we heard the Minister's planning and the deadline for action. I'd also like to have a particular line that you'll be debating with each other. If we had actually had a debate at that time, as Mr Futselaar points out, perhaps we would have been talking alongside each other all night. I think it is good to set out a number of lines, and I myself think that view in relation to the revision of manure legislation is very important. I will continue to mention this because this review is really very important for our farmers and for the growers, because it is not just about dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mrs Ouwehand has the floor. I hope we don't ask the same questions all the time and get the same answer. But that's just a lot the chairman has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u43	Yeah, but the questions have to be asked. If it is necessary to revise those manure laws, then I really do wonder. The VVD has been the biggest party in the government for nine fucking years! Now we still need to hear from the VVD group: it is important that we do this first. I just spoke to the CDA, but also Mrs Lodders, who has been the most important mover in this area, is once again crying out about the uncertainty caused by the phosphate dossier. Look at how that went and how there was discussion in farmhouse fora; everyone knew it. There is only one person here who actively tries to prevent long-term security for farmers, and that is Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u44	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u45	Does Mrs Lodder not recognise that it is important for the clarity of the sector to choose a sharp definition and that you can take further steps from there? Why is the VVD avoiding that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u46	I am not avoiding any of Mrs Ouwehand's questions. A lot has been set in motion in recent years. I have not for nothing just referred to 1 January 2015, when the Act responsible growth dairy farming came into force. We then took a number of steps; I am not going to repeat them all. We have been working on this in recent years. When we talk about manure legislation and those nine years in this Chamber, that's true, but in those nine years, not nothing happened. A number of steps have also been taken there. And now and then it's time for you to recalibrate, see what things we want to do to make it easier and better for the farmer and gardener. How can we ensure, for example, that we meet climate objectives? How can we ensure that we can use innovations to keep our food production going? I know that Mrs Ouwehand has a very different vision. She is not satisfied until we have banned dairy farming from the Netherlands, but my party does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u47	I didn't argue for that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u48	No, yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u49	I really just want clarity of the VVD and also the recognition that running away from necessary measures and running away from sharp definitions have created that uncertainty. I would like to remind you of the phosphate dossier. Is the refusal of CDA and VVD to choose a good definition of groundboundness not the basis for the fundamental discussion that still exists within the coalition about what is actually circular agriculture? I think VVD and CDA say: circular agriculture, yes, only when it comes from the moon, then we don't count it as a cycle anymore, but what comes from the rest of the world does. You are postponing it again, with all the consequences for the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u50	I now have a number of comments from Mrs Ouwehand, which, in my view, did not lead to a specific question. I think that if someone has not run away from his responsibility, it is the coalition parties that have taken some important steps in the previous period but also in this period. Could you have done that in one step? I don't think so, because things are complicated. It is not just here in the Netherlands to arrange. We are also dealing with all kinds of Brussels regulations. We have taken responsibility for this and, yes, we will continue to do so in the years to come. Again, reform of manure legislation is one. Climate objectives are a second important for the VVD. Then we also have the Minister's vision of circular agriculture, the closing of circles, which we would not have thought of five or ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u51	I was just thinking if the GPS, when a launch from the Netherlands goes to the moon, can follow as far as the NVWA. But that aside. That wasn't my question; I'm just thinking about it. Mr Futselaar just indicated that the coalition has stopped a debate on the vision of circular agriculture. But isn't it true, Mrs Lodders, that this vision of circular agriculture was addressed in the 2019 budget process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u52	Sure. I can confirm that. That is where we talked about circular agriculture. I imagine there have been many other debates. If I remember correctly, I have included circular agriculture or elements of it in some of the questions I have raised. So that is actually the common thread that runs through our debates. It's really not like we didn't talk about that. But I have to admit to Mr Futselaar in this way I have understood the question that we have not yet had a debate on circular agriculture. That is what we will do at the moment when there is more clarity about what the trajectory of the treatment of circular agriculture looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u53	If circular agriculture is the theme of this cabinet and in the coalition agreement, I think it would be useful to hold a debate on it, but let me leave it out as a non-member of this committee. At least what we are talking about today is ground-boundness. Mrs Lodders just said to Mrs Ouwehand: ask a specific question about this. I wonder what Mrs Lodders of the VVD understands under ground bondage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u54	As far as I am concerned, the Act on responsible growth of dairy farming is currently in force. We have laid down how dairy farming can grow, and that is in relation to land-basedness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u55	Today we are discussing a report commissioned by two farmers' organisations. What surprises me in this debate is that two coalition parties say that this is premature and that we have to wait and see a number of things first. Can you describe the content of this report and, in particular, how you see the relationship between this report and circular agriculture, what is the adage of this cabinet and of your coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u56	I cannot explain that to you in two or three sentences, because it is much more complex than this question suggests. If we are talking about a different definition of the term "groundboundness," then we should also look at how we are going to fill it out in relation to a number of other issues. It is not just about the Minister's vision of circular agriculture, but also about manure legislation and, for example, about the new common agricultural policy we are currently working on and on the basis of which we are going to define our policies for the coming years. You can't just define it as a desired outcome, because you can't see what the consequences are. That is why my group is calling for the steps that have already been taken and which we are working on to be completed first. Then we know what the frame is. If we need to tighten up the definition, we will then have the debate on it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u57	Mr Geurts, do you really have a question for Mrs Lodders or is it something you can also say in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u58	You will really hear a question from Mrs Lodders. Mr Smeulders just indicated that it was a report by LTO and NZO. Does Mrs Lodder agree with me that it is an independent committee with an independent chairman, with five very different dairy farmers, a representative of the World Wildlife Fund on behalf of the Greens11, two people from the world of government, namely the Ministry of LNV and on behalf of the provinces, and the director of CLM? Does Mrs. Lodder agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u59	We all read that report. I think Mr Smeulders has also read the report in preparation for this debate. Congratulations, by the way, on entering such a subject and replacing his colleague, Mrs Bromet. Certainly, it is a wide-ranging committee, but that is not the point I should like to make. I think it is wonderful that the sector or a number of parties sit together to think about the future. The question I am being asked is whether I want to discuss it with each other and tighten up the definition. That's premature, and I don't want to go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u60	Thank you. Finally, Mr Graus has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Madlener, who is ill. I have been on this dossier for about thirteen years, and I have always argued in favour of grazing, especially in the context of animal welfare. But we do want a lot of control and enforcement on weather protection. That has already been settled by law, but it hardly happens yet. Every time I drive past overheated animals in the summer, I hate that nothing is done about it. So: grazing OK, but we do not think that you should require that for each individual animal. That is why we have not supported a motion from the SP. I've been in farmers' houses every time the same cow didn't want to go out. Then you can't force her to do it, and you have to let a little animal like that in. I also have animals that would rather not be let out. You just have to leave things like that. That's why I'm always against it when you say it's mandatory for every animal. It can't be. Besides, an animal can also be sick. I prefer animals to be able to choose for themselves. I went to Farmer Gijs in Abcoude once. That's where the animals can just walk into and out of the stable themselves. It's for the best. Someday we'll have to go there in the future. Animals should be able to decide for themselves; we should not have to decide for them. If an animal wants to be inside for six months, it's gonna be in there for six months. We should not interfere with that at all. I've been talking about heat stress. I'd like to get a response from the Minister in a moment. I also asked: start with shadow spots, through the Tree Planting Day. I'm going to be practicing with the Minister and Mr. Geurts soon. Deputy Ger Koopmans, I believe, is going to plant more than a million trees. I'll do the first one, and I'll leave the rest to Mr. Geurts and the minister. So the other 999.999 you can do. Mr Futselaar also had a good input. It's still on my bucket list to file a motion with "the Futs" one time that's his name; he's very popular here. I would very much like to have had a motion "the Futs"/Graus before leaving the Chamber. Perhaps Mr Futselaar can put his motion before us one day, because he is a bit of a loner with his motions. He doesn't like to share them. Now he says, "I'll do my best." Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I come to what is written about the land-based dairy farmer: he must be able to dispose of his manure on his own land and/or with a colleague in a radius of 20 kilometres. We have been against the whole of phosphate legislation, because we say: manure is the brown gold, rich in phosphates, needed to bind oxygen to humans and animals, and it is also the best building, energy and raw material there is. We also want the consequences for farmers to be mapped out, and we also want farmers' welfare services to be mapped out before any policy is adapted and there will be a sufficiently long transitional period, so that the farmer is not forced to end his business overnight. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman, everything else has been said. I'm sure some very good motions will be tabled in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u62	There is another interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u63	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u64	Let me get this straight. Mandatory grazing does not mean that cows have to go outside, but that the farmer is obliged to offer that option. Does the PVV therefore agree with the Animal Party that we should move towards a situation in which everyone who then holds dairy cows should have a so-called house parcel? That means: a stable with a meadow, so that the animals can stay inside in the summer if they want or go outside themselves if they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u65	Yeah, it makes sense. You can also see that people who keep ducks don't have water. Then you shouldn't have ducks, I guess. That's the way it is with cows. You know that we have always supported this. You also mentioned that in your own term. We have therefore supported this. You're explaining the meadows well. That's what I'm in favour of. But what I'm afraid of, Mrs. Ouwehand, is this. Someone from the NVWA is going to be there, and they're going to be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be there, and they're gonna be Then the farmer says: sorry, for that and that reason there are. You've got to let the farmer out of there a little bit. I have really experienced, Mrs Ouwehand, that certain cows when they were brought out did not want to go outside. Then I don't want them getting knocked out with a stun gun or a stick. Then just leave those animals alone! That's just what I think. Then we just have to leave those animals alone. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u66	We agree on that. The current definition of grazing of "120 days, six hours a day" should actually change to "a mandatory plot and much more than 120 days just open the stable so that the animals can choose whether they want to be inside or outside."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u67	Yes. And, Mrs Ouwehand, as spokesperson, I have always suggested not 'big stables with meadows' but'stalls in the meadow'. That would be my greatest wish. But, again, that won't happen from today to tomorrow. There will be a lot of water flowing through the Meuse before that is the case, because not all wishes will be met. And in The Hague everything goes very slowly. Even the elevator doors are slowly opening and closing here. So it always takes a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u68	Now you will have an interruption and this time by Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u69	I wish I hadn't said anything, because I would have been sitting behind my HARIBO candies by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u70	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u71	I am a little confused after the interrupting debate between Mr Graus and Mrs Ouwehand on the meadows. I heard in one between all emotion and sometimes enthusiasm coming through all kinds of proposals and measures. That's exactly what happens in this house all the time. Mr Graus assumes the welfare of animals, I ask through you, Mr President. That doesn't mean, for example, that you want to send the year around cows into the meadow?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u72	I don't know when I said that. I haven't talked about the whole year. I just said that even during the mandatory grazing you have to leave animals in the stable if they don't want to. So I didn't mention that your animals...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u73	It seemed to me the same way, but if it is different and Mr Graus withdraws from it, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u74	I'm not giving up on anything, because I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u75	Well, that impression arose, I say in the direction of Mr Graus, after Mrs Ouwehand made a proposal to adjust the definition of grazing in the interrupting debate. The year round cows outside is, of course, the last thing we have to do. I think we should take the cow into account and give it the opportunity to go out at the right moments. An obligation, as is sometimes suggested here and there, seems undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u76	I did not hear and understand that from Mrs Ouwehand, and I did not talk about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u77	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u78	So I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u79	Good. Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u80	Good night, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u81	You too. We have arrived at the end of the term of office. I shall suspend for ten minutes and then resume the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u82	The next item is the 30-member debate on the Commission's opinion on the future of dairy farming. We're due for the term from the cabinet. I call the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is true that tonight we are discussing an opinion that came out almost a year ago, on 12 April 2018, from the sector for the sector. Let me just put it this way. It was requested by NZO and LTO, who themselves indicated that, as far as they are concerned, the outcome is binding on the future of dairy farming. The committee has gone to work without my interference and without the task of interfering now. The sector took its own responsibility and felt it was important to think about it, because it determines how one looks at the future of dairy farming. In fact, this debate is much more about the vision of dairy farming and perhaps not so much about what to do with this report or not. That vision question, how you look at dairy farming and what it should look like, is hanged on the definition of land-basedness. That is what I heard in the debate this evening. What definition do you use? When you look at the debate from a distance, do you think: is there going to be a definition issue all night? But behind that lies of course a whole world and reality about how intensive or extensive you want to have that dairy farming. In my view, that is the real discussion we are having here and then we are bound to a definition issue. Let me first go back to what the request of the debate was about, namely the report produced by NZO and LTO and the Committee on Ground-Basedness. The committee notes that landboundness is not an end in itself, which is a bit similar to my intro, but that it is an important means of remaining economically successful and socially valued as Dutch dairy farming in the future. This is an important balance between these two: economic value and social value. I appreciate the commitment of the dairy chain to having such a binding opinion on land-basedness. It is an opinion of the sector for the sector, so the primary responsibility to further the committee's report and opinion lies with those parties. I understand that a large dairy cooperative has already taken the first steps. The committee has given substance to land-basedness in the longer term. She put 2040 on the horizon with advice for dairy farming in 2025. So she kind of stepped into it. I must tell you that, when I read the opinion, I recognized a great many elements. I had not delivered my own vision at the time, but there were a lot of things that coincided with the things that we ourselves formulated in the vision of circular agriculture. I believe that Mrs Lodders said that a number of things are also being discussed at the climate table. The parties at the climate table, who spoke there themselves before we gave the political appreciation, supported the opinion of the Committee on Ground Bing. In other words, they have reaffirmed that, from their point of view, the opinion is the directive for the future of dairy farming. We ourselves are working on this subject, and a number of Members have referred to it with regard to the rethinking of manure policy. Of course, this kind of discussion is extremely relevant. What definition are you going to use there and do you come up with a manure policy in which we try to combine different goals? I'm just going through the elements, the building blocks in the committee's opinion for the listener at home. The committee says that at least 65% of the protein contained in the ration, mainly grass, must come from own land or from land in the immediate vicinity, 20 kilometres, from the dairy farm by 2025. If the farmer can obtain at least 50% of his roughage needs from his own land, he can conclude a neighbourhood contract with another farmer within a 20 km radius. The Committee also states that the dairy farmer must have sufficient farmland for grazing. The stocking density may be a maximum of 10 dairy cows per hectare of farmland. By 2025, imports of protein-rich raw materials for use in dairy feed should also have decreased by two thirds. Mr. Chairman. They are all building blocks that I do recognize a lot about, because we are also looking at these issues in the context of circular agriculture. For the rethinking of the manure policy, I have also been given a few more assignments from your Chamber. I remember the motion that it had to be meadow-proof. It had to be soil-resistant. We also had some other discussions. I think everyone is going to ask me what definition is it going to be, Mrs Schouten? I believe that Mr Futselaar was the only question to ask. That's exactly the puzzle we're laying. That's exactly what I'm saying in all honesty. We have been given quite a few assignments, from your Chamber but also from our own perspective on circular agriculture. We have set out an ambition with that. Whatever exactly you are going to use as a definition: it seems to me that you need to look at the building blocks much more, as the committee has done, rather than the definition, because that is a derivative of it. Exactly that discussion we are having right now. I'm looking at a range of cases. We also involve the discussions we have in the country with farmers and dairy farmers, for example: what elements of this could you take with us? We will continue to discuss this with you at the moment that this is further crystallized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u84	Let me ask you a very enlightening question. Do I understand correctly that the Minister comes up with a definition of soil-boundness in the adaptation of manure legislation, perhaps in the form of a series of building blocks, which are being taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u85	I'd like to turn it around. Just as I have just indicated, we are going to formulate building blocks. From the building blocks finally come the criteria you're going to take with you. We shall therefore include the building blocks, also because your Chamber has already asked me to do so. Mr Futselaar has asked what "groundboundness" is. He himself feels a little more for the definition that Network has basically applied. This definition of the GRAS Committee only refers to land-boundness if all manure produced on the agricultural area can be used on agricultural land, but could also be taken into account within a radius of 20 kilometres. At the moment, that is not a distinguishing criterion. These are all matters which will of course be included in the discussion. Mrs Ouwehand also asks about the proper definition. I think I've already taken her questions with me. I come to Mr Geurts, who asks when the rethinking will come and what is the state of it. We started and had meetings in the region. These give a fairly adequate picture of the different views on manure policy, as well as where the ideas for simplification and adaptation lie. Let us not forget that you have asked me to simplify the legislation on manure, as I want to. It is therefore quite a puzzle to make, with all the wishes in the Chamber plus simplification, an enforceable and enforceable system. That's quite a puzzle we're laying now; we're actively working on. I am now in the process of drawing up directions on what this future manure policy can look like. I hope, after a substantive review of the frameworks that have come from, among other things, your Chamber, but also, not insignificantly, that a practical review by a farm panel will be decided in the autumn on the contours of the new manure policy. The question was whether I would involve the European Commission in this. Of course, because for what we are doing I am largely dependent on it. I think, expect, that they will also check a possible different system in particular against the directives and thus against the target range. For the Commission, fraud prevention is a very important issue, so we will have to take this into account and come up with a manure policy that is simple and more manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u86	The Minister had just finished answering the questions I had asked. I wonder if the Minister thinks that all livestock farming in the Netherlands should be ground-bound. Is that her endgame?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u87	Then I go back to the beginning of my speech: what is the definition of ground boundness? That's what it's all about. I note that different definitions are used in practice. Yeah, I think ground bonding is an important starting point. What is fundamental is the debate we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u88	I am asking because the criticism of the sector plan is that it is a trick to fall under the category of 'groundboundity', because it brings benefits. I wonder how desirable it is to have a category that then does a little less bad or a little bit more durable, just how positive you want to name it. In addition, there is still non-ground-based and non-circulation. What good is that gonna do us all? Shouldn't the Minister make a basic choice, to begin with? Still apart from the fact that we have to hannes about how to define ground-boundness?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u89	But defining groundboundness is exactly the discussion we are having. There are different ideas about what should be ground bound. I also note tonight that you can have different views on this. I specify a number of frameworks within which I have to operate. It must be a simpler system. It's gotta be enforceable. We want it to be good in the context of circular agriculture. We want it to be good for the soil; you asked me the same. You even asked me to make it all meadow-proof. These are elements that we are taking into account in the debate on soil binding in relation to manure policy. I'm laying that puzzle, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u90	It's a repeat. You have your second term. I'm going to see Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u91	Can I use my second interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u92	Your second interruption? You've just done your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u93	No. It was an interruption with two questions. Is that all we have tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u94	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u95	Then I'd like to use my second interruption, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u96	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u97	I was just trying to say that I will now stay away from that discussion about the concept of "groundboundity." Apart from the discussion on what is becoming ground-bound, I ask the Minister whether she thinks that agriculture as a whole should be ground-bound. And then we have to discuss how to define ground-boundness. Does she want everything ground-bound? Or does she say: we take over one category with "ground-bound, cycle, sustainable" and also have the categories "non-ground-bound" and "non-cycle"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u98	I think that I have just said that I think groundboundness is a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u99	For everything? For agriculture as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u100	This is about dairy farming. We are also looking at it in the manure legislation. This is about dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u101	The whole dairy farm?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u102	I would like to point out that the subject of the debate is fundamental. I know how Mrs Ouwehand deals with that. She's gonna say, "You don't meet my definition of ground-boundity." That is exactly the kind of discussion we need to have with each other. That is why I do not think it makes any sense to say 'whether ground or not'. What are the starting points in the manure policy? I have indicated that I recognise things in what the sector itself has said, because they are in line with what I have written in my view. There are other aspects that I must take with me. That's what I'm laying the big puzzle about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u103	Thank you, Mr President. This is a little bit of the fear I had at the beginning of this debate: that there is a lot of discussion about coloring a definition. You're just gonna be a dairy farmer at home watching this debate before television and thinking, "Damn, I don't even have the clarity about my phosphate rights yet, and now the next step is coming. Moreover, if I may quote the Minister, the Minister also mentioned the figures himself when it comes to a grass-covered plot, which is a description of land-relatedness that you would allow for a maximum of ten dairy cows per hectare on the plot. This definition makes an average farm of 40, 50 hectares and 80 cows almost impossible. Maybe I shouldn't even say the word "almost." I therefore find this discussion very dangerous at the moment. I was pleased with the Minister's approach that we should first deal with a number of other aspects of manure policy. We must use the principles before we take decisions on these matters here. Once again, I think that these definitions go very far and that we are again burdening the sector with a lot of unrest. And I'd be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u104	It is not a definition that I have defined, but it is a definition that NZO and LTO have asked for themselves and that the organisations have also made binding. I believe that about 98% of dairy farmers are members of NZO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u105	That was the answer, Mrs Lodders. You actually wanted to leave it at that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u106	Yeah, but I'm always very economical with interruptions. This is exactly what's happening: we're gonna take over one-on-one. We should not take this kind of concept for short, because it has far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u107	Nor have I indicated that I am taking over this, but I recognize elements of this in what we have included in our vision of the future of agriculture. That is the future that we must discuss with each other. I have just indicated that the precise impact is the subject of discussion, including in the manure policy. At the same time, I see that the sector has set itself this objective. If the sector says to itself 'this is the norm', then who am I to say: you cannot use it? They really are there themselves. They're all grown-up people. We are rethinking manure policy. If the sector itself is in the process of getting here, then I am not going to stand in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u108	I have a slightly different approach to Mrs Lodder's approach, which is similar to Michael Jackson's moonwalk: move but do not move from your place. The sector proposes and initiates a movement. Mrs. Lodders describes it as dangerous to go that way. The movement comes from the sector. Is the Minister prepared to cooperate, to make this a target and to use it as a lower limit for dairy farming in the long term, as the sector itself says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u109	It's very funny. One MP says you can't interfere. The other MP says: you must raise it to purpose. That's about the whole spectrum. In my wisdom, I always try to get in the middle of it a little bit. If a sector itself says 'we want to do this; we are going to ask our dairy farmers to go in steps', then I am not going to ban it. I'm not gonna ban what private parties themselves see as a step-by-step plan, am I? All I'm saying is that I have my own trajectory, in which I have to make choices within the framework of manure policy. I have indicated what the process is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u110	Hail to the Minister that she will not be guided by the inhibitors in permanent service. I have a follow-up question. In the review of manure policy, all kinds of puzzles have to be laid. Can you do that within the surface of the box called the coalition chord?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u111	I am pleased that Mr Moorlag is concerned about the success of the coalition agreement. I'd say you could help with that. I'll never forbid that. We're reviewing and reviewing that manure legislation. I have just indicated that it is a puzzle, not only because it is a complicated matter, but also because there are all kinds of wishes and ideas that the Chamber has expressed itself about and which I am trying to unite as a whole. The most important thing is that it is also really feasible for the farmer. Let's not forget that. We can have all kinds of ideas and wishes, but ultimately it is the dairy farmer who has to be able to work with the rules. That is why, as far as I am concerned, it must also be a simple system. That's the puzzle we're laying and can we do it? I would say: wait with excitement and give your judgment at the moment it is there. But I am glad that Mr Moorlag thinks from the coalition agreement. Hold on to that, I'd almost say!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u112	Good. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u113	Mr Geurts also had a question about the elements in the Committee's opinion on soil cohesion. He referred to the feed-fertiliser contracts and the neighbourhood contracts. His question is: why should we not promote local loops and young farmers where that is possible? I mentioned earlier that there are still some challenges to the enforcement and implementation of the feed-fertiliser contracts. We are aware of this and it is also an issue that we must involve in the simplification process. It is precisely this kind of dilemma that we need to address. The young peasants. In the context of phosphate rights, it is of course stipulated that the phosphate bank should serve two objectives, namely land-boundness and the issue to young farmers. I only note that the phosphate bank is not yet open and, for various reasons, which we have also discussed in the Chamber, it is not yet open. In order to stimulate young farmers on other points in the legislation on manure, I do not yet see myself completely, I must say. I think that young farmers are best served by clear, unambiguous legislation, and we are simply working on it in general. Of course, I try to encourage young farmers in other ways, but you know that. How are the competition rules? Can farmers work together a little more and will agriculture be allowed to try out certain commercial practices, without being equal to unfair commercial practices? I have announced two legislative proposals to strengthen the position of farmers in the chain. The first is the sustainability initiative bill. There are also elements which clarify and provide a clear framework for the possibilities for cooperation in agriculture. That bill will soon be in internet consultation. In doing so, we hope to give real clarity about what farmers and gardeners can do in the context of cooperation, without them having to think: now I am violating the Competition Act. The second is the draft law implementing the new European Unfair Commercial Practices Directive in the food chain. I sent a letter to your Chamber on 1 April last with the state of play and I have also reported this afternoon in the general consultation that we are in the process of translating it into legislation. Although the final text of the directive is not yet available, we already know what it contains. That's how we try to keep pace. I think those were Mr Geurts' questions. Then I come to Mr Smeulder's questions. Welcome to this committee! It is absolutely true that this is a fantastic committee to participate in. I hope to see you more often, although I hope to see Mrs Bromet again soon. But she's, I understand, doing a big job, and that's also important. Mr Smeulders asked how the vision relates to the proposed plans. I have just indicated that it is an opinion of the sector for the sector, but that I do recognize elements in it. If you put it in addition to the vision of circular agriculture, you will see it. The Committee also gives concrete expression to the concept of circular agriculture and thus is already in line with the vision. I mentioned just now that we are looking at all kinds of building blocks in order to implement them in the context of the reform of manure policy. On the definition of "groundboundity," I think, I have already said a few things. Mr Smeulders wanted to go even further than the percentage referred to by the Committee on the Environment. We're not gonna give you a hand here about the percentages. I think that's a little short. But I understand what Mr Smeulders thinks. He was also concerned about even more bets on the protein-rich grassland. That's what he said in the context of meadow birds and biodiversity. He felt that additional policies were needed. In the end, I think it is about the balance sheet of the whole thing. So it's not just about the degree of protein richness of the grassland, but also about questions like: where do you get your food from, how does it relate to the cycle that you can close, what does it mean for the manure you use on land? These are all elements that are important in terms of good, healthy soil. I think that this should be discussed: what is a good soil and what does that mean, for example, for meadow birds and biodiversity? That is a discussion that we are also having in the context of the soil programme, which I have also sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u114	I understand that the Minister is now working on a number of things and that it is therefore difficult to deal specifically with a few points. Maybe we can find each other at a higher level of abstraction. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that dairy farming should not go after pig farming at all? The unique, or positive, of dairy farming in the Netherlands is that it is largely ground-bound, especially in the past. It's decreasing. Does the Minister agree with me that this decline is a trend that needs to be reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u115	I assume that Mr Smeulders is referring to the reduction in soil density. Then I get back into the loop a little bit: what is your definition of groundboundness? We have also often had a discussion about grazing and such. I think that everyone here sees a dairy farm which also has land and in which circles, in our view, can increasingly be closed down. That doesn't necessarily mean that you do it on your own company. You can also do this by making arrangements with others in your environment, for example. That is actually what the Commission's opinion on soil cohesion is in line with. That committee also indicates that kind of elements. Ultimately, it is about ensuring that we close those circles at the lowest possible level. I think that should be the discussion. Then we can get into a lot of discussions about what is ground-bound and what isn't, but I think that is the core of everything we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u116	I would like to thank the Minister for this answer, because I have to say that during this debate I became a little gloomy. I thought: if we were not going to talk about any definition, and not about ground-boundness, we might as well not have been able to have this debate. But if the Minister indicates that I understand that she is doing so, and that that means that you need any degree of ground-boundness, we are in any case very positive about it. I should therefore like to wish the Minister every success in his work. I realize I'm not asking a question right now, but I'm sure the chairman will forgive me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u117	Compliments are always allowed, Mr. Chairman; I always collect them. Then I come to Mr Moorlag's questions. He's asking how we're gonna translate it into the vision. I think I just indicated how we're doing on that. He also asks how, in future, we will only provide room for companies that meet the condition of land-basedness and how we can achieve this. It's a little bit before my time, but maybe you remember it. It was a little before your time, too. After that, of course, we were given the whole of phosphate legislation and such, but that law exists. He then wondered how it could be encouraged that companies that were not growing would be ground-bound. So he's doing it more the other way. That is precisely when I see that the sector itself is answering these questions with the opinion that is now before us. I also think it is a very positive attitude that the sector itself is thinking about its own future. Mr Moorlag also asks how I am going to put all this into legislation. I think we just had that discussion. I'm not gonna lie down in front of something parties are already willing to do. At the same time, we are in the process of revising the manure legislation, with a number of buttons being cut. Mrs Lodders didn't have a question, but she did have a comment. She said: give the sector time to implement all these measures properly. I think it is important for her to say that there are a lot of things going on at the same time. Indeed, if you are watching as a dairy farmer, what do you think is happening... I think we should look very closely at what a sector can carry and clarify where we are going, so that the sector knows what the dot is on the horizon. Then you also know what step you can take as an entrepreneur yourself. That is why it is important that at some point we can clarify the legislation on manure. But we have to look carefully at the fact that this is not again counterproductive to other issues, which we are also asking of farmers. That is the challenge I have, but I think we have it in its entirety with the Chamber. So it's a concern I acknowledge. Then I come to Mr Graus. He asked for a reaction at the point of heat stress and shadow spots. I have noticed that the sector has a lot of attention to this, for example by letting the cows out early in the morning or late in the evening or possibly at night when it really gets very hot, by spraying roofs and by ventilation in the stables. And we're gonna plant trees, too, I understand. Or let me put it this way: in Limburg trees are going to be planted and I believe that we have already been invited by Mr Geurts to plant trees here as well. I think that in general, when it comes to heat stress, the sector itself sees that things can happen and that they also advise that this should happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u118	It's not just cows. That is what this evening is all about, but it also applies to sheep. At Voorschoten there are sheep in the meadow. There's one platform wagon over there, and then all these sheep are just standing there and standing underneath that plateau wagon. Of course you can't. That's just pretty dangerous. I'd like to ask the Minister to have the NVWA check on that. I'll also ask the Animal Police to do that. 'Cause it's just outrageous when you do something like that. If it's hot as blood, really tropical hot, and you just leave your animals out, it's as bad as leaving those animals in the cold. Maybe it's worse; maybe it's even more deadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u119	That's another question, in a different context. The moment you clearly neglect your animals, the NVWA goes on to do so. That's really an element. But there's a lot of gradations in that. I think it's a bit of a quick conclusion that if it's hot, there would be neglect. That's not just one-on-one. But I share with Mr Graus that it is important to see how you can accommodate these animals as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u120	This is not an unexpected point; I have also mentioned it in my contribution. It has already been legally established that you have to protect animals from weather influences, but there is no NVWAer who intervenes when he drives past such a situation. They just don't. They're not trying to control animals in the meadow at all. I really think that should be done, including in the coming summer. I'm gonna do that, too. I'll be making reports myself; I'll be driving around myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u121	I think I have just indicated that you must realise that there is genuine neglect. Mr Graus is also asking for a sufficiently long transitional period. The rethink is not meant to change it. It is really meant to make it better and also better workable and less complex. That is what it was all about, because at some point the farmer, but also myself, did not see the forest at all because of all the legislation. That's how complex it's become. Choices will have to be made. We talked about that tonight, I think. One of the elements that we absolutely need to take into account is the question of how it is all portable for the farmer and what period you need to get out. So I share that with Mr Graus. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered the questions of your Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you very much. I'll take a look at the members. Can we go straight to the second term? Ah, there's one question left. An interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u123	I went down the hall for a while, so I may have missed it. It was about what has been suggested by the Committee on Fundamental Rights. I asked if it wouldn't be better to look at the number of livestock units per hectare. I would have liked a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u124	That's more of a generality. These are the elements that involve you in the review of manure policy. We also look at what the building blocks are. I note that the Commission is not looking at the number of animals per hectare separately, purely and exclusively. They have several building blocks involved. That was my point, too. You actually have to start reasoning from the building blocks instead of a definition issue, because then I think you're gonna shoot all over the place and then we're gonna talk past each other again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u125	Thank you. Then I'll waive my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u126	Thank you. There are more members who do that, but not everyone. Mr Futselaar will be the first to speak on behalf of the Socialist Party in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are special times: a one-year-old advice, deployed by LTO, embraced by LTO, which is described here as premature and even too dangerous to debate. I almost feel sorry for LTO. Three brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that in 2018 useful definitions for ground-boundity have been formulated;]] [[calls on the Minister to include a legal definition for the concept of soil density in the adaptation of manure legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar, Mr Smeulders and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next motion tries to color that definition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that a strict definition of soil density, especially in the case of manure use, is desirable;]] [[calls on the Minister to take on board the definition of ground-boundity as formulated by the Grass and Network Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for further land-based farming, particularly in the context of circular farming;]] [[considers that manure processing is not a sustainable solution;]] [[calls on the Minister to extend the Law on land-based growth in such a way that, in the event of a phosphate surplus in dairy farms, further expansion of livestock would not be possible without full coverage with land,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar, Mr Smeulders and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-209]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar, Mr Smeulders and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u129	Thank you. And Mr. Graus, I won't forget you next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u131	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to Mr Futselaar to see if we can get out of that vicious circle: what is groundboundness, no, then we must first know what we call circular agriculture and no... Well, let's keep it short. I have one proposal for a smoother discussion. Thank you to the Minister for her reply. I would like to press everyone once again: the longer you wait with clarity, the more unrest and uncertainty for the sector; the words of the VVD and the CDA here tonight. Everyone who has listened to us: dear people, these are the parties who have caused all the confusion. My proposal is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that manure processing is not part of circular farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr. Chairman. We are eagerly waiting for clarity, for the vision, for a truly sustainable agriculture. It's a hell of a time in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you. Mr Smeulders has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks. Oh, it's stuck for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u134	Oh, well, I'll turn this one up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u135	The chair is stuck, just so we're clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u136	Yeah, it can't be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u137	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get started. We'll be ready in time. We can watch most of Ajax right away, so that's an unexpected windfall. Ah, look. He's doing it now. I would also like to thank the Minister for her reply. I understand better now that Mrs Lodders indicated that this debate is actually a little too early, because I do not think we have made much progress on this evening's occasion, also because a number of important policy dossiers still need to be crystallised. My group is concerned about one specific point. This is about biodiversity and the possible consequences of these plans. That's why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the insect and meadow bird population is under pressure and that these species thrive in, among other things, a herbal grassland;]] [[Whereas higher protein production, as advised by the Commission on Ground Boundaryness, may have a potential impact on species wealth in rural areas due to a higher concentration of protein-rich grasses;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to protect our biodiversity and thereby the meadow birds and insect populations in the implementation of circular farming and reform of manure legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Bromet, Mr Futselaar, Mr Moorlag, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-212]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions on my part. This is not motivated by the desire to be stuck to the image as soon as possible in order to be able to follow a football match. I understand that the Minister is saying that he is in the process of developing that manure policy. I also think that we should not get bogged down in discussions on definition issues, but what the PvdA is about is that a movement is being put in place. This movement, which has come from the sector itself, deserves my full support. That is why I think it is valuable that we are having this debate. In doing so, we also do justice to the authors of the report. I know one of the entrepreneurs who co-produced the report. That's Mrs. Annet van Velde from Kantens. That is just a really good entrepreneur who wants to make progress, who wants changes in the sector. Rest is important, but making progress is also important. I do have a final comment for the Minister. Is it prepared not to be guided by the conservation of animal numbers in the new manure policy? Because it is my belief that entrepreneurs want a healthy business operation and not a maximum number of cows. I am concerned about a healthy future for the sector. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u140	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for about five minutes. After that, the Minister gives her opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u141	The next item is the 30-member debate on the Commission's opinion on the future of dairy farming. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've counted five motions. In the motion in part No. 208 is requested to include a legal definition for the concept of "ground-boundity." In my view, I have just indicated that we are precisely formulating the principles and that these principles result from whatever the ground-boundness is. So I'm trying to taste a little bit of what these motions are all about: let me just write it down for the review of manure legislation. I have always argued that the definition is not the starting point, but the frameworks we give with that legislation, and in that light I advise against this motion. However, it may eventually be a result of the building blocks that we include in it. It will not surprise Mr Futselaar that I have tabled the motion in part No. 209, therefore, betrayed. That is what we discussed in the debate. It's kind of a step: first he says there's got to be a definition, and then he's gonna fill in the definition. I see that with Mr Futselaar, Mr President, so I am going to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u143	That's almost entrapment. Go ahead, Mr. Fuzzler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u144	I call it the Flasher Scale of Reason, so I'm slowly trying to become more extreme in my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u145	He's just dragging us in! Then the motion to part No. 210. I have argued this evening that we are in the process of adapting the legislation on manure and that there are a lot of things in it. But now Mr Futselaar is asking me to amend another law as well. I am in the process of reviewing manure policy, and I do not think it would be appropriate to have a whole debate on an existing law now, so I would advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 211 is a "spoken" motion and doesn't ask anything of me. The motion in part No. 212 calls on the government to take measures to protect our biodiversity and thus the meadow birds and the insect population in the implementation of circular farming and the review of manure legislation. This is again in the category of requests to take on board all kinds of things that we also want to simplify. So that will be another challenge. I have already been instructed by your Chamber to monitor the soil conditions and even the meadow birds. I think it is becoming a pile-up of business, and in that context I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u146	I just indicated that I was pleased with the tone the Minister chose in the debate. This is kind of freaking me out. In view of the Minister's previous remark, I would have thought that this motion would certainly be given a Chamber's ruling. I believe that the Minister stands for a nature-inclusive agriculture. I think that the Minister might as well explain to the motion that the cabinet is indeed in the process of taking this kind of action, which is therefore fine to take with it. It must not lead to any more rules. But I think it is possible to read the motion in this way and I would like to ask the Minister if she could do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u147	Mr Smeulders is very charming, so he can really tempt me to look at things like this. My point is that I have been given directions from your Chamber on these points every time, including on points such as soil conditions and meadow birds. We all have to include that in the manure legislation. Actually, this is another accumulation of this kind of thing. I hear what's being said here, and we're in the process of rethinking. However, I think it is too early and too much at the moment to record all of this now, with which a lot of things have already been done. But we'll keep an eye on that soil condition. That's one of the points. And if you do that right, this will follow. Trust that we're working on that. So I advise against this motion. I have one more question from Mr Moorlag, who is a little multi-interpretable. He asked if I was willing to stop sticking to the numbers of animals in the new manure policy. That could go both ways. I do not know what Mr Moorlag is trying to do. Either he says we have to allow much more animals, or we have to allow much less animals. This is in itself a new discussion that we can start: it is always very interesting. I thought Mr Moorlag was mainly concerned with reducing the number of animals, but if we go this way, I think we are going to start a whole new discussion again. While Ajax has already started, I'd just like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u148	I don't think my question was that multi-interpretable. I would argue that we should not stare blindly at definitions. I think the Minister knows that too, because she said that tonight. But we should also not be blinding ourselves to maintaining the number of animals. A farmer does not strive to keep as many animals as possible, but a farmer simply wants a healthy farm with a healthy future. That is why my question to the Minister is: is she prepared to look at ways of keeping fewer animals, so that environmental pressures are reduced, but farmers have the guarantee that they can run a healthy business and that they will have a healthy future? That was the thrust of my question. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to move in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u149	Again, that is another discussion, which I believe we also had last week in the Rli debate. That's when it was about this, too. I have already indicated that we are looking at the future of dairy farming. We do this through, among other things, manure legislation. We now also have a phosphate rights system. These are all matters in which we need to keep clarity. Not so much because we want to keep the system, but because we need to give some direction to dairy farming. Mr Moorlag now wants to hear from me that I am going to set up my manure policy in such a way that it leads to fewer animals. Then I get another job, and I really think this is a form of instrumentalism that is not entirely fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u150	Finally, Mr Moorlag, because I was also chairman last week and therefore present at that debate. It's true that it's been discussed back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u151	I'm glad you said that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u152	I think this is the crux that matters in the sector. It's not just an elephant we can stick wrinkle-free behind the wallpaper. We now squeeze too many animals into too tight a legal corset. We can wear those corset laces every time, but perhaps we should allow in the thinking that we might go to a little less animals, but under the perimeter condition that the farmer can just earn a good sandwich and that he has a future. That is my question to the Minister: will she allow that to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u153	In the context of the warm restructuring of pig farming, you will soon be hearing the plans on this point, because we are preparing for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you. I thank the Minister for the judgments on the motions. We have come to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-11.u155	For the people who have followed it, I would like to say that there will still be a lot of discussion between the committee and the minister about the realisation of the vision of circular agriculture. On 24 June there will be a note conference. I would like to thank everyone, including the supporters. We're going to vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday.
