ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the request for a short third deadline for the joint examination of the legislative proposals under the Tax Plan 2020 for the tabling of amended motions for resolutions. Can the Chamber accept a short third term? That's the case. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber. I understand that Mr Essers has the Essers c.s. motion. (35304, letter F) on the ODE levy and the Essers and Geerdink c.s. motion. (35241 (G)) on the prevention of double taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u2	Sorry, chairman, the motion on the ODE just stays intact. The motion for a resolution on the prevention of double taxation is amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u3	Fine. Thank you for this explanation, Mr. Essers. So we're talking about motion 35241, letter G. Mrs Geerdink also wants the Geerdink motion and Essers c.s. (35241, letter F) on not implementing with a "Dutch headline." Is that right, Mrs. Geerdink?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr Van Rooijen wanted to amend the Van Rooijen motion (35302, letter K) on a state committee for the revision of the tax system. Is that right, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u6	I'd like to hold that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u7	Hold on. Good. Our last reports were that you wanted to change that motion, but you'd like to keep her. Of course, that's fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u8	Yes, Mr President, and that also applies to the motion on the second Secretary of State for Finance. (35302, letter J).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u9	Those motions are both under arrest. Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. The motion on letter K (35302) has already been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr Crone also wishes to speak in the third term for a brief explanation. To this end, I will reopen the debate on the Tax Plan 2020 for a short third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u11	I give the floor to Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said, the motion on storage of renewable energy taxation is simply intact. We thank the Minister for Economic Affairs for the letter he sent. We believe, at least, that the motion is a little more sensitive than that letter. That's one of the reasons for leaving that motion intact. Following the debate we held on the motion to avoid double taxation, I took up the gauntlet to clarify that motion at the request of the Secretary of State. This led to the following text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u13	The motion Essers and Geerdink c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Considering that the implementation of ATAD 1 and ATAD 2 may in practice lead to situations of double taxation, without the government wishing to provide for this, for example because of the application of a CFC measure, in cost-plus situations or in the application of the secondary rule; Whereas Dutch legislation must be proportionate against tax avoidance in order to ensure that the Dutch business environment is as attractive as possible for real companies; calls on the Secretary of State to promote that, in unforeseen cases where these Directives do not oppose them, double taxation should be avoided as far as possible in implementing practice, in so far as the law and the accompanying explanatory memorandum permit, and to consult the European Commission and other Member States in the coming year to consider whether and, if so, how double taxation can be removed if the cause of these Directives is situated, and goes to the order of the day. This amended motion has been signed by members Essers, Geerdink, Atsma, Doornhof and Rietkerk. She gets letter H, was letter G ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Then I give the floor to Mrs Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week we discussed the motion on Dutch headlines on the European directive ATAD 2. The VVD is tabling an amended motion on this matter today. The following question was raised: when is there a national head? This is the case if Dutch legislation goes beyond what is strictly necessary under European law. More specifically, this is the situation where there is no maximum use of exceptions and there is a wider scope of application of European legislation, according to a note from our own First Chamber a few years ago. Last week's motion was amended to the adage of restraint. On page 44 of the coalition agreement is about Dutch headlines on European legislation: no, unless. This applies to agriculture and immigration, and to our group in fact to all subjects. Let's be clear: ATAD 2 knows headlines. The Directive assumes 50% participation and the Netherlands assumes 25% participation. The additional documentation obligations with a reversal and an increase in the burden of proof are sufficiently justified by the State Secretary. In addition, the choice of the secondary, heaviest rule has always been applied from the point of view of the spirit of the law. We've all heard that. The VVD believes that there is a need to take tough action against fraud and abuse, but innocent people should not suffer. If there are reasons for the regulation, let us explain it to the implementing legislation from now on. We are concerned not only with the positive but also with the negative effects of ATAD 2. Therefore, the request for an investigation, as is the case with ATAD 1. Then we can assess in about a year what effects ATAD 2 has had on the Dutch location climate in relation to the European countries around us. To that end, I shall table this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u17	The Geerdink motion and Essers c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that combating and combating fraud and abuse through tax arrangements is a spearhead of the government; noting that stricter implementation of European directives may have a negative impact on the competitiveness of Dutch industry and thus on the Dutch locational environment; calls on the Government to: in view of the level playing field in Europe, exercise restraint in the implementation of European directives with a Dutch headline and, if so, explicitly indicate this in the explanatory notes on the relevant implementation rules and explain the choices made; in the context of the already committed monitoring of measures against tax avoidance, also investigate the effects of the Second EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, and inform the Court of Justice in 2021; inform the Court by April 2021 at the latest of the summaries requested by the European Commission of the implementation of the second EU anti-tax avoidance Directive in the other EU Member States and also to examine in more detail the implementation in our neighbouring EU Member States (Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg, Ireland and France) with a view to assessing whether the Netherlands may have implemented these measures more strictly than other EU Member States, and goes to the order of the day. This amended motion was signed by Mr Geerdink, Mr Essers, Mr De Bruijn-Wezeman, Mr Van Ballekom and Mr Arbouw. She gets letter I, was letter F ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u18	There's someone else out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like Mrs Geerdink to clarify the position of the VVD. Is the VVD going to vote against laws and effects of directives that have a head on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u21	Would you keep the answer to that very briefly, Mrs Geerdink?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u22	Sure. Thank you, Mr. Van Strien, through the chairman. We will assess all the directives to be implemented very sharply. In the meantime, you know what my position is. We will continue to make a strong assessment of this. On the other hand, we hope that this motion will give the government a clear indication of when this is going to happen and then give a balance. I repeat what I said last time: it is not always wrong or bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u23	No answer, of course. I understand the VVD finds it very difficult when it has a head on it, but how hard does the VVD find it? That's the question. Is she for or against such a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u24	The motion speaks, I think, for itself, but perhaps you will give a short response, Mrs Geerdink?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u25	I also think the motion speaks for itself. I just said no, unless. We are therefore opposed in principle. That's how we look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u26	One last one, Mr. Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u27	Yeah, I'm gonna try one last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u28	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u29	Last week, I heard Mrs Geerdink explicitly say, "Yes, we are voting in favour of the law anyway. Whether or not a head, we vote in favour. Although we find it useful when that head goes off, we vote in favour."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u30	Yes, we're voting in favour. The reason is that we are very much in favour of the other purpose of this law, so tackling abuse and fraud. I think everyone in this room is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mrs Geerdink filed the original motion last week in the second term. In the explanatory text she spoke of a monster. I don't hear the word "monster." Is that right? Do I understand correctly that the amended motion calls on the Secretary of State to take a close look at how other countries are dealing with the same directive in the near future? Is that the wallet of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u32	The porte of the motion is indeed that we are looking at what is happening in other countries, because we do not know that at the moment. That's one. Two is that the monster still exists, but has a purpose, namely to tackle fraud very clearly. That doesn't make it any less a monster; it remains a great monster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u33	It seems to me to be a fine monster that we are going to accept today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u34	One more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u35	Just a little more time. In your explanatory statement, you just said that we do not want innocent people caught. It sounded a bit like you have the idea that innocent people will get caught, because this is based on the 25% rule. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mrs Van Huffelen. Mrs. Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u37	What we mean is that the wider implementation of this directive will indeed enable us to move towards constructions that are not aimed at tax avoidance or abuse. That can be done with this legislation. We are aware of the fact that this can happen. I can say that it is not, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mrs Van Huffelen, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u39	This law, of course, aims to ensure that no tax is paid twice. That's the core of what this is about. I don't understand why things could go wrong. This law provides for a sharper version to regulate it properly in the event of double payment. So I don't quite understand where these problems might come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u40	I'm just trying to understand the question. One of the consequences may be that there are double taxation, but you can also have that many more taxpayers are given a documentation obligation, which that law is not really intended for. That's what I mean by saying that he can apply to more than just those he's meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u41	This may mean that there is an additional obligation, but that is something other than being guilty or innocent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u42	That's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs Geerdink. I call Mr Crone, who has just asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I myself asked for a letter from the cabinet in second place last week and I would like to respond to it now that the letter is here. I had already said that there might be a reopening, and that is the case. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and, of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs for the answer. I find it rather staggering, because there seems to be little urgency, as Mr Essers said. It's like, "Well, we'll explain it again." What they do not explain is one of the questions that has been widely raised here in the Chamber, namely whether the sector has been properly consulted. That is not the case. However, it is confirmed that this did not happen. The main point remains that the sector also understands that there is a shift of burdens from citizens to business. That would be an average shift of 34% and now this disk 3 is increased by 177%. There's still a difference. I ask the cabinet how it could have been thought that this could be supported, because that is, of course, beyond all expectations. Hasn't it been considered doing a different division? And then I urge more urgency, because there will be an inquiry in accordance with the Lodges motion but only in the course of next year. I mean, it's gotta be a lot faster than that, right? If there has been no consultation, while the sector wants consultation, I would like to ask for an initial report in February on the impact and possible alternatives. The impact, because it is bizarre that we take such a measure without an impact study; it should have been done already and it is not that difficult. I believe that this should be possible in February, including the possibilities of compensation, partial compensation promised by the cabinet, through subsidies on energy saving or whatever. I stress that I ended my second term by saying that next year we should only talk about adapting the tax system to climate change. It should be. And then the Madrid Conference fails halfway, and then we start with a measure that seems to run counter to climate policy. I also call on the sector to be flexible and, above all, to ask for CO measures that make adaptation easier rather than more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr Crone. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance, provided he is able to respond directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the latter, Mr Crone's request. He received the letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, which repeats a number of things that we had already shared. I understand from Mr Crone and others that there is little urgency. I can imagine that if you read the letter in technique. I think it was meant to actually reflect what may or may not be happening. I see that you specifically ask, through me, the Minister responsible, to take this more seriously than the tone of the letter. I also think you are asking whether there can be a consultation as early as February, after which you can hear how things are going and whether these people have been invited. I am making a commitment on behalf of my colleague that I see no reason why he would not want to do so in February. Consultations are planned, it is important to discuss this, we have already taken and adopted a number of measures for 2020 on the non-fiscal side. But it certainly shouldn't be the case that if problems arose, that urgency wouldn't be felt. I would simply like to endorse this, so I say this. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the two motions. I shall begin with the motion on letter H on the prevention of double taxation. The first time I had three interruptions with Mr Essers on the motion to see if we understood each other exactly what was called for. I understood that what he wanted to call was very good, but I found the wording uncomfortable, because it seemed like the Tax Administration was the one who was ultimately responsible for preventing double taxation. That was really not his intention, I understand. I do not see anything in the new motion for a resolution that I do not understand. In fact, I think it's okay. Where space is provided, we must consider what to do. Where there is no room for manoeuvre, we will have to work with the Commission in some cases to see if it can help us. I've promised you that before. In short, with this motion, I have a completely different judgment. I would like to pass the judgment on to the Chamber. I come to Mrs Geerdink's motion on letter I. The first one was a different one. I'll be honest with you. During my first comment, I went quite firmly into the motion, because I did not think a number of phrases and reasons were entirely correct. I tried to explain why I found that. I also said where I saw space. For example, I said that if you do anything other than the bare minimum in Europe, it is good to see what the countries around you are doing. This way we make sure we don't leave too much room there. When I just heard the motion and read it again quickly, I thought I might agree with all these elements. I understand that, too. On this motion, too, I should like to pass the judgment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u47	A brief question on the first motion by Mr Essers and his colleagues. It calls on the State Secretary to promote the avoidance of double taxation as far as possible in unforeseen cases where these directives do not oppose it. If that is the case, can I assume that the Secretary of State will immediately inform Parliament about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u48	I need to see what Mr Vendrik means. If there is disagreement with existing law, the answer would be: of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u49	I am particularly concerned with the first part of the operative part of the motion. It calls on the Secretary of State to promote... and so on. The second part of the operative part concerns the discussion with the European Commission. My interest is in the first part. If the Secretary of State promotes this in any case, will we be told? Exactly how this is done and on the basis of which: we want to be properly taken into account by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u50	I think it's important to point out that you sometimes have space. Sometimes there is a law and an explanation of it, which allows for double taxation or prevention, depending on what it says. It's not like it's always possible or not, like the first part. Space is being offered and the question is when to take that space. The point that follows has to do with the fact that this space is not provided because the directive is not there. This could lead to double taxation. I said to Mr Essers: if you do not see room in the legislative or explanatory document, but there is double taxation, sometimes you have to go back to the one who devised the directives. That is the European Commission. So it's not like there's some kind of boundary and I'll call it in when you get over it. Sometimes there is room in the law to prevent double taxation. We have already indicated that if we do something knowingly and knowingly, for example with the motion on the heads, I also think we should explain why we are doing what we are doing. At ATAD 2 we did this extensively. We wanted to go a little further than the bare minimum. We have had a rather extensive debate on why I thought that was important. It's gonna stay that way. It's not like, for example, I should have always reported in that case, yes or no. That room's here. The question is what we do with it as legislators. Sometimes we choose to move on. Then we shall certainly explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mr Vendrik has one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u52	I'm trying to understand what the Secretary of State says. He says he may be looking for a meeting with the European Commission in certain situations. I get all that. But my point is: what are we going to see about the first part of the operative part? The operative part calls on the State Secretary to promote the avoidance of double taxation as far as possible in unforeseen cases in implementation practice. How am I supposed to imagine that? How am I supposed to imagine that? The minimum that I would like to get out of this conversation with the Secretary of State is that we will then be told exactly how we should imagine this in practice. The tax inspector has to enforce this law. He comes across a situation and then goes to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says a or b. That's how I picture it. Then we'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u53	This almost seems like a kind of... Suppose the Secretary of State hears from someone who, in this case, shows that someone is paying a double charge somewhere. That could be an outcome. That can sometimes be desirable, because you want to achieve something else. In any case, I am not going to report to the Court on each individual case that there has been double taxation. In my view, the motion raises the following question. In certain cases, for example in the case of ATAD 2 or earlier in the case of the withholding tax, we have also talked about double taxation. We assume, for example, that people do not allow interest or royalty flows to go to these low-tax countries, but sometimes they do. This could lead to double taxation. Then it's up to us, the legislator, to explain why we're okay with that or not. This motion is then about what you do with it. The motion first said: the Secretary of State must ask his Tax Office to do its best to avoid all cases of double taxation as much as possible. I find that complicated, because that's not my decision. The operative part is now made differently. Now that actually says: does the Secretary of State want, if within the law there is the possibility to avoid double taxation... That is what we always want, of course, in principle. You want to avoid double non-taxation and you want to avoid double taxation. That is the starting point. But there can be a situation in which that happens. If we can do that within the law, we'll try to take that space within the law. But if there is no such space within the law, I believe that that is the real point on which the second part of the operative part is concerned, and we must ask the Commission to ensure that space is found, for example within the directive. That is the general principle that we have in bilateral tax treaties. You try not to pay twice over the same, but you also try not to pay twice over the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then I will close the debate on the Tax Plan 2020 and the other legislative proposals that have been dealt with in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-3.u55	I propose that we vote tomorrow on the amended motions. I shall suspend the sitting briefly, pending the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
