ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on Albanian gangs in the criminal circuit in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was actually already here. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the moment I asked for this debate, November 2017, the worrying coverage of the Albanian gangs in the Netherlands has only increased. It even created a new term, namely 'high-rise crime'. Albanian criminals operate from high-rise apartments in Rotterdam, so as not to stand out. They can't be controlled by observation teams. They pose as tourists, but remain indefinitely. The RIEC in Amsterdam suspects that there are six times as many Albanians in the Netherlands as there are registered. I therefore do not recognize the figures of the cabinet. And if I have to read that a Rotterdam detective has "rarely seen such a violent group" as Albanian organised crime, then I am shivering. Mr. Chairman. Since this debate has been announced, these Albanians have also come to the news in a different way very negative. They are not only "climbers" in high buildings, but also in trucks on their way to England. The mayor of Moerdijk called the bell about this. At that time it was promised that the minister would talk to the mayor. I would like to know what the results of these talks are, and whether any arrangements have been made to better stop these climbers. We're talking criminal gangs, but there's a very clear connection to climbers. They're both groups who suddenly say they're tourists the moment they get caught. Then it becomes very difficult for the police and the police to do something about it, because in fact they just have the right to travel freely. There is no longer a visa requirement. So there is a serious problem here. Since the abolition of the visa requirement in 2010, organised Albanian crime has become very large and very dangerous in Western Europe. Watching patiently is no longer an option. The good thing is, you don't have to. There is an emergency braking procedure: the suspension of the visa requirement. The emergency braking procedure may lead to sudden undesirable effects when the abolition of that visa requirement has resulted. That is also clear in the Minister's letter. And in our view, it is very clear: if there is any negative effect, it is at least the organised crime of the Albanians. We can at least call that "a negative effect"? And let us not forget that two govern ments have gone to Albania over the last week and a half to talk about the problems there. So they recognize it, that should be obvious. "It seems," the Minister wrote, "maybe there's little support for suspending that visa, and we're not the only ones who can pull the emergency brake." However, I would like to call on the cabinet to do everything in its power to get there. Because I can't imagine that we're the only country that's affected by it. Or is it, because we in the Netherlands have become a narcostate in which they find it okay? We believe that a visa requirement for Albanians should be introduced very quickly, just as long as the country is in order. And, of course, we are looking forward to the European Commission's report on Albania. I understand it will appear at the end of May. But in the meantime, let's do everything we can to activate that emergency braking procedure. What else are our options? Send them away without suspicion? Because let's be honest: if they really have something serious going on, if we're dealing with an Albanian police killer, then we can't even deport them to Albania, because they have a bit of a spicy criminal justice system in Albania. Well, I guess! It cannot therefore be allowed to travel freely to this part of Europe and then to send people back because they have a bit of a strong criminal justice system there. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Justice has recently been to Albania. I'm actually looking forward to seeing what that turned out to be. And I would like to know whether there are good agreements or are being made in my last nine seconds with England in the context of the Brexit, because in all the Brexit violence we would almost forget that we also have to make agreements with them about the climbers. And with that, I'm exactly at zero seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u3	Very neat. Mr Fritsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mrs Van Toorenburg is right to say that the misery has started with the release of the visa requirement for Albanians, which the CDA group in the European Parliament was in favour of, but it is good that the CDA is now saying that this was a wrong decision and that that visa requirement should be returned. My question now is whether the CDA Group agrees that this mistake should not be made again and that we should not now have a visa waiver for Kosovars. The EU is also about to introduce a visa waiver for Kosovars.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u5	We have to stick to the subject, because I feel like it's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u6	Then I'm going to be very brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u7	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u8	I think we should talk about the Albanians now. We have developed an emergency braking procedure for the exemption of Albanians, because we want to pull the emergency brake when a problem arises. I don't know if the problem with the Kosovars will be that big. I myself have been wrong for a while in Kosovo, and I do not know whether the problem there is as great at the moment as the problem with Albanian drug dealers. If so, then we must have that debate and we must do so, but for the time being I want to concentrate on the Albanians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u9	It has something to do with it, because we can see here the consequences of visa waivers. We have major problems with Albanian criminals and the same is likely to happen to Kosovars. I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's answer, but the CDA Group in Brussels also voted in favour of the Kosovar visa waiver. Then we can keep going. I do not think it is right that the CDA should continue to pursue the facts by always allowing these visa exemptions and then, if it is too late, ring the bell. Make sure you avoid these problems from the outset by taking the right decisions from the CDA in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u10	That's too easy. That's too easy. Of course, you always look when a visa exemption is decided on internationally. If that leads to unwanted effects, there will be a procedure, that's how we agreed. In this case, there are demonstrably unwanted effects. I already mentioned them, the police mentioned them. Two members of the cabinet went to Albania because it is getting out of hand there. So I think it's time to pull the hand brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u11	That's a very clear story. The CDA calls for the emergency brake to be pulled. I support that. However, the cabinet says that it sees no reason to pull that emergency brake at the moment. Suppose the Chamber forces the government to do so and that it will do so, but it will not be taken over in Europe. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u12	I'm never much of a questioner. I will tell you quite frankly that I have prepared a motion to at least call on the cabinet to do everything in its power. I know that the President also knows that it is good practice not to threaten a motion, because then you will only make yourself smaller and unbelievable, so I have now said what I want from the cabinet. If the cabinet said "we're not gonna do that," I'm sure I can tell you because you're asking me to have a motion ready. Sign it. It'll only make me happy. Then we need to see what is going to happen in Europe. I'm not about Europe. I think that's a like-dan question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u13	I couldn't agree more. We have to do what we can here. I think we're in agreement. We need to call on the government to pull that emergency brake. I am merely asking whether Mrs Van Toorenburg can reflect on what the cabinet says. This means that at the moment it sees no reason to pull that emergency brake, as if it were not meeting the criteria for it. I don't think so. You don't think so, do you? Do you see enough reason to pull that emergency brake?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u15	Okay, then we're all in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u16	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u17	Then I'd like to sign that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u18	A word on the effectiveness of the re-entry of the visa requirement. If you assume that a lot of Albanian criminals have a false EU passport, the question is, of course, how far this is going to go. What's a criminal gonna care about an administrative obligation to visit a consulate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u19	It won't be all we have to do. It's very simple. If people have false papers, you can prosecute them. Then we must also ensure that they are deported, even if the country has a bit of a spicy criminal justice system. All this may be true, but we cannot of course say to each other: what is the effect of a criminal permit? Then you might as well put the whole international licensing policy aside. We note that it will be a threshold. We also note that they will not be able to say to the police: I am a tourist here. 'Cause then show me your visa! Otherwise, you can be kicked head and ass out of the country. I think it's important that we take some steps. And this is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u20	Then how does Mrs Van Toorenburg see the possibility of putting this on the table as a threat and saying: Albania, you need to do more on a number of issues, such as the fight against corruption? And if this does not happen within a given period of time, they will forfeit this right to visa-free travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u21	I know that this has been the case several times. When I threatened to do this, even the Albanian newspapers said that a government party wanted to do so and that they had often been addressed in the fight against crime. So that's no surprise. Apparently, it didn't work. I am, of course, curious to hear what I said about the outcome of the discussion that the Minister of Justice had when he was recently in Albania. I understand that the Secretary of State has also been there recently. He had made a nice video of that. Both regiments have indicated that there are mega-problems. And then I see the answers to the questions, including those of the SP, which says: we see no need to say that there are undesirable effects. Then I think: do I have completely different images of your own work visits in the stranger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now turn to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I am doing my part today on behalf of Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks. Two weeks ago, De Telegraaf reported that Albanian gangs are increasingly active in the Amsterdam underworld and that they would control the Amsterdam cocaine trade. When I was preparing for this debate, it appeared that this kind of message is not new. Already in 2004 the newspaper Trouw had an article with the headline "Albanian criminals increasingly important." When I read it, it turned out that article had the same tone as the play in De Telegraaf. It is therefore right that we should pay attention to the effects of organised crime. The reputation of the Albanian mafia is one of a terrifying violence. The question then is: how can we best deal with this issue? Three parties argue in the media that the visa requirement for Albanians should be re-established with an accelerated procedure. We have just heard the confirmation from Mrs Van Toorenburg. A proper pre-control at the border would stop these Albanian thugs, seems to be the idea. But since when do criminals, who do not comply with the rules at all, comply with visa rules? I fear that with these kinds of solutions, there is no Albanian criminal who sells or buys a kilo less cocaine in Amsterdam than before. I would also point out that the article in Trouw I was just talking about dates from well before visa-free travel. I am therefore curious to see how the Minister of Justice views the link between visa-free travel and crime and what he thinks of Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposed solution. I see she's joined the interrupting microphone by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u24	That's right. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u25	It is true that not only the visa waiver is a problem. I'm actually curious what D66 has for solutions. Because when we talk about increasing the punishments, D66 always gets a bit shivering, while people come to the Netherlands because the punishments here are nothing. So I'm actually curious what D66 wants to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u26	I am glad that Mrs Van Toorenburg was a little more nuanced than she was in De Telegraaf in the interrupting debate with Mr Van Wijngaarden. That's a win in itself. But I think the solution lies primarily in cooperation in Europe. I think we need to work well with the Albanians, exchange information and prevent people who we already know have wrong intentions from coming here. And if they do, they must be dealt with in cooperation. I believe that yesterday or the day before yesterday there was still a large coordinated Europol operation in which many people of possible Albanian origin were arrested in Belgium. I think that's the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u27	But Mr. Groothuizen was a renowned prosecutor. He knows that the prosecution and the police are also asking us to ensure that this visa requirement is at least introduced so that these people cannot pose as tourists. So especially if this is requested from the chain, in addition to all the other measures that are necessary, why does D66 not support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you for Mrs Buitenweg's compliment... by Mrs Van Toorenburg; I am completely confused. I read that in De Telegraaf, too. I did not see it officially confirmed, but Mr Van Berkel, well-known to me, said indeed: I think it is a good solution. Despite the fact that I hold Mr Van Berkel and the Public Prosecutor high, I continue to think for myself. My conclusion is that people who do not follow the rules will also not be prevented from travelling to the Netherlands to enter the cocaine trade here. Mr. Chairman. I would like to receive a response to the questions I put to the Minister of Justice. I even understand that many Albanian criminals caught in the Netherlands have no Albanian passport at all, but a false or stolen EU passport. Mr Van Wijngaarden also mentioned it. Is that message correct? If so, does Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal make any sense? I also understand from the police information that the Albanian mafia would be firmly rooted in the United Kingdom. This raises the legitimate question of what consequences the Brexit can have. That question has already been raised. Are Albanian criminals from the United Kingdom going to move to the European mainland? Is that already being considered by our investigation services, and if so, is there a possible response? I would also like a response from the Minister of Justice on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u29	I would like Mr Groothuizen to finish his block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u30	I had come to the point where I was going to turn to the Balkans, so that is convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr Grothuizen raised his doubts about the effectiveness of calling for the visa requirement to be re-established. Can he also comment on the feasibility? How feasible does he think that would be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u32	The political feasibility of introducing the visa requirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u33	It also raises the question of how useful it is to call from the Chamber on matters of which the Cabinet has indicated by letter, just before this debate, that there is no support for them in the EU. I think we would like to send a signal as a Chamber, including to Albania. As Mrs Van Toorenburg pointed out, this is being closely followed. But then it must be a credible signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u34	Sure, I think that's a fair point. I read that in Mr Van Dijk's answers. I believe that the cabinet said that we do not see enough support for this in Europe, and in that sense this seems to be a far-fetched map. I take it that the cabinet will say something about this shortly, but it would be an additional argument, as far as I am concerned, not to go down that route if it is politically impossible in Europe and you should also ask yourself whether it makes a great deal of sense at all. Then I guess you already have two arguments not to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u35	Would Mr Groothuizen be open to an assignment to the cabinet to make a stronger point at least in Europe about the implementation of anti-corruption measures within Albania itself and the promotion of the rule of law there? Threatening that the emergency braking procedure would come up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr Van Wijngaarden is a little ahead of the end of my speech. I have a number of questions about this too. I also read in the report I found on visa liberalisation from 19 December 2018 that Albania is doing quite well, but that there are a number of concerns. But I can always imagine you looking at the appointments you make. When you see that it is not good, you must of course say to Albania or another country: listen, we have made certain agreements with you. I think that is a fair point. Mr President, I turn to the Balkans, as I promised. I myself, like Mrs Van Toorenburg, worked in Kosovo, around the corner from Albania. I know that organised crime in the Balkans is a serious problem, but I also know that progress is being made in these countries and that these countries need to go a long way. It is a process of reform and stabilisation of a very complex region. As far as I am concerned, that is ultimately good for the security of Europe. Such a process requires that you make clear demands, as Mr Van Wijngaarden has already mentioned, but also that you offer help and, as far as I am concerned, perspective. Visa-free travel is such a perspective: for students, for entrepreneurs and for young people who want to get to know the EU. My question to the Foreign Minister is what effect the removal of visa-free travel would have on this reform process in the Balkans. Does he think that this is a sensible step in the light of the broader remit that we have in the Balkans as far as I am concerned? In my view, visa-free travel contributes to lowering the threshold for travel and thus strengthens social, cultural and economic ties between the Balkans and Europe. Mr. Chairman. Member States may initiate an emergency braking procedure, inter alia if it is established on the basis of facts that public policy or safety is at stake. The Minister saw no reason to start that emergency braking procedure a year ago, and I understand from today's letter that he still doesn't see it. Can he confirm that? Can he say that there is really no reason to revise that position last year? Or could he even say that Albania is on the right track? Can the Foreign Minister also confirm that I have rightly understood that Albania is cooperating well with the withdrawal of its own nationals if they have applied for asylum here and it appears that they are not entitled to it? Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech, and I would like to comment on what Mr Van Wijngaarden has already told me. My question is: should we not cooperate better with the Albanians and what means do we have to strengthen this cooperation? Indeed, the Commission's report highlights a number of concerns, such as tackling irregular migration and organised crime. Can the Foreign Minister explain how this cooperation is going at the moment and what specific points of improvement he sees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u37	I find it very strange that D66 is so easily removing that option of a visa requirement, especially when you see that the police are asking for it. Maybe big crooks can sail around, but you also have little crooks. You also have climbers and you just have the police who say: give us a means, because now we cannot do so much against these Albanians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u38	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u39	What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u40	I just explained that to you. I believe that visa-free travel is part of a reform process in the Balkans which is positive as far as I am concerned. You shouldn't get into that unless there are very good reasons and I don't see them in the reports. On the other hand, I am glad that you admit that there is no point for the great criminals at all. But also in the case of the smaller crooks and climbers, people who are willing to have themselves smuggled into the UK in a truck, I wonder whether they will be very happy to have a visa in their passports. To be honest, that seems to me to be wishful thinking that has little realism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u41	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u42	This reasoning is really bizarre! Then you wouldn't have to impose any more penalties, because the bad guys will go around it anyway. That's actually the reasoning D66 is using right now. The police say, "Give us a means, because then at least we can do something. Now we can do nothing against "tourists" who are in the bushes near Moerdijk. Now there's nothing we can do about smaller criminals, especially those big criminals." Give them a cure! I do not see the argument why visa liberalisation should continue if there are such great concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u43	I believe that measures should be effective. They must be tailored to the problem and have a reasonable chance of success. I doubt it is. Mr Van Wijngaarden rightly adds that the political feasibility seems to be limited. Those are two arguments. And I pointed out in my speech that I also believe that there are a lot of good aspects to visa-free travel. That Mr Van Dijk does not agree with me and that he weighs that balance differently, I leave it to him. I do not see how we can solve this problem, which I do not think should be exaggerated in the end when I see the numbers and figures in the letter, with such a cannon. As far as I'm concerned, it's really shooting a cannon on a mosquito and then with a very good chance that we're shooting quite around this mosquito.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. We are now dealing with a new mafia in the Netherlands, and that is the Albanian mafia. Serious crime, a lot of violence, large-scale drug trafficking: it is increasingly dominated by Albanian gangs. And this crime wave is no coincidence. The misery is again a direct consequence of the European Union's open border policy, which, unfortunately, the cabinet is always slavish and uncritical. The EU, supported by the Cabinet and most of the parties here, has been so crazy to exempt Albanians from the visa requirement. And without a visa, no matter how you turn it or turn it, there's no way to see who comes in here. There is no more public order test, no more tests to see if anyone here can afford the accommodation, no more checks to see if anyone has a ticket for the return trip to the country of origin and so on. Any kind of control falls away and anyone can come here. Well, then, of course, you'll call off the troubles about yourself. Criminals are the first to benefit from that visa waiver. They're simply not being stopped anymore. Moreover, the problem of illegality has also become much greater. Truck drivers can talk about that. They are constantly suffering from Albanian climbers. Chaos and crime, that's what we got back for the oil-dummy EU policy of letting Albanians travel without a visa. The PVV demands that this be reversed. And you can. It's possible because of the public order problems we're having right now. The government must therefore ensure that the visa requirement for Albanians is re-established as soon as possible. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, it is unfortunately not the case that the EU is learning from mistakes, because after we have gotten this Albanian crime wave over us, there is now also a visa exemption for residents of Kosovo. We all know that there are also major problems in Kosovo with corruption, organised crime and drug trafficking. So if you're gonna get that visa waiver here again, you're gonna call off the misery of yourself again. The PVV therefore requires the cabinet to actively stop the visa waiver for Kosovars. Mr. Chairman. These issues, of course, also prove that we can spare all these EU rules and EU interference as toothache. The EU is still forcing tens of thousands of asylum seekers. Even criminal asylum seekers must be granted a residence permit from the EU, even if they have been in prison for five months. The rules on partner and family migration must never be tightened. We can't have alien detention. The list is endless and it really is high time that the cabinet resisted these abuses much harder. Stop bowing to Brussels and finally stand up for the Dutch interest! I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u47	Mr. Chairman. Many Albanians are making our country unsafe. It is about drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, but it is also about so-called climbers, and that has to do with visa liberalisation since 2010, which makes it possible for Albanians to enter our country unimpeded. Officially they are allowed to stay for three months, but precisely because they do not have to register, that is not to be checked. There may be around 20,000 Albanians in the Netherlands. Can the government confirm that? According to the police, half the underworld of Amsterdam has now been taken over by gangs of criminal Albanians. Even the Moroccan bad guys, certainly not cheap ones, sleep badly when they hear that "the Albanians" want to set something right. "I have rarely seen such a violent group: they really do not move aside for anyone," says a Rotterdam detective. Then there are the Albanians who come on the ticket tip and set up all kinds of dark activities, small crime and nuisance, but in such a way that the police are now pressing for the visa requirement to be re-established. Then there are the climbers, people who climb trucks to get to England. In 2018, the police picked up more than 1,300 climbers at the port of Rotterdam. Almost 900 of them came from Albania. A year earlier, there were over 750. So that number is on the increase. Does the government recognize that? Due to all these problems, the Chamber already asked in 2017 to look at the reintroduction of the visa requirement. There was a letter, but it's been quiet ever since. Nor does the EU think it is necessary, because the re-entry of the visa requirement distorts the urge to increase the influence of the European Union. As a result, many ordinary people are victims of nuisance and crime, of exploitation and trafficking in human beings, of the free movement of persons, services and crime, so to speak. I ask the government: why has visa liberalisation ever been introduced? There is an agenda for the Western Balkans. What is the underlying idea? That Albania becomes a member of the European Union? I don't think that's a good idea. The Chamber has already expressed this in a CDA motion, which we have supported. Does the government share that opinion? Albania is very corrupt, according to all kinds of lists. Why doesn't the Cabinet intervene? I have a few more questions. What are the most recent data on the extent of crime among Albanians in the Netherlands? And what else can the government do to tackle crime among Albanians? The example of the fake passports already came along. And if a visa requirement does not work, are there any other visa opportunities? I call it the so-called transit visa and the territorially restricted visa. Are there any possibilities, I ask the government. Mr. Chairman. We say: do not make that list of victims any longer, put an end to the free passage and introduce that visa requirement again. With that, you give the police a means to intervene. In addition, there will be more insight into the numbers. Of course, well-intentioned Albanians remain welcome, but criminally not. Hence my appeal to the government: pull that emergency brake before this train derails any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u48	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden asks a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u49	I also ask Mr Van Dijk my question. He says, "Stop the free passage." We have just seen with each other that it remains to be seen whether we will put an end to this by abolishing visa-free travel. It remains to be seen to what extent this abolition will put an end to this. So we're not here to bake sweet sandwiches?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u50	I find that such a strange reasoning, especially for the VVD. You are actually saying that we must set fines for offences, because people will always make them. That's weird, isn't it? We are trying to get to grips with a serious problem, a problem that has not even been appointed by the SP alone, but above all by the police. There they say: this is a big problem. There they say: give us the visa requirement, because that is a good tool to get a grip on the criminal Albanians and the climbers. I would say: why does the VVD refuse to cooperate in realising this desire of the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u51	I haven't refused anything yet. I simply said that we should not exaggerate the effect of abolishing visa-free travel. All the time the police act like they can't do anything at all, but visa-free travel is something other than free movement. Is the SP also aware that the police certainly now have a title to hand people from Albania without insurance, without money, without address even at this time simply to the Return and Departure Service? 1,100 people were sent back last year. So with or without visa-free travel, the police can do a lot. Is Mr Van Dijk aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u52	Sure. I'm not saying it's a panacea for all the problems. I am merely saying that I find that the authorities that deal with this issue, namely police and justice, say: give us the visa requirement, because that would help us enormously to tackle crime among Albanians and to tackle the invaders. When the climbers are caught, they now say: we are allowed to be here, because we travel visa-free and we are tourists. And we are not even talking about the large number of illegal Albanians staying here for more than 90 days. Those are all things you can't control without a visa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr. Chairman. Those who say "Albanese gangs," says "Rotterdam." But let me start by taking away one misunderstanding. Cocaine smuggling and smuggling from the Albanian corner are not problems of Rotterdam alone, but of the whole of the Netherlands. Rotterdam is the gateway to Europe where climbers travel by land. Some of them end up as drug lords and invest money in the wrong restaurants and buildings in Amsterdam, or expand their activities to Limburg and Brabant. This debate therefore affects the importance of the whole of the Netherlands and is about how we can be better off Albanian gangs than we have been so far. The VVD sees three directions: diplomacy, the rule of law in Albania itself and enforcement here in the Netherlands. Firstly, diplomatic cooperation between the Dutch authorities and Albania. Albania is supposedly champion of the smooth take-back of its own people and there is the will to move forward as a country. This is positive, as is the efforts of the cabinet. We encourage the Cabinet to continue this cooperation. But how is the exchange of information on suspects with Albania monitored in order to prevent the leaking of corrupt officials in Albania? Can the Minister indicate how this is monitored? How urgent is the dialogue with Slovenia to properly monitor the EU's external border and to check whether Albanians do meet the criteria for entering the EU? Because there may be visa-free travel, that does not mean that Albanians go anywhere in the Schengen area without money, reason, address and insurance. Can the KMar assist Slovenia in strengthening border controls there? Secondly, the functioning of the rule of law in Albania itself. Since 2010 visa-free travel is possible for residents of this country. Because Albania is not making sufficient improvements in the internal fight against corruption, it is now seriously putting visa-free travel to Europe at risk for its citizens in terms of the VVD. The VVD therefore wants the cabinet to indicate to the Chamber exactly what measures Albania is working on on an anti-corruption agenda. Is the Cabinet prepared to inform the Chamber periodically about this? The VVD also wants the cabinet to make a bilateral and European effort to introduce a reporting obligation for suspicious financial transactions in Albania. Now a criminal with suits can drive cash crisscross across Europe towards Albania in his Skoda because Albanians don't like bling............................................................................................................. The VVD wants this reporting obligation to come into effect and the internal fight against corruption to be stepped up. Albania has not received visa-free travel as a gift but only on loan. This means a heavy responsibility for the country not only to take back its own people, arms and drugs dealers smoothly, but also to keep them there and prosecute them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u55	I wonder why the VVD was so tough at the time. If visa liberalisation had undesirable effects, the emergency braking procedure would be considered. Why were you guys even there for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u56	I did not say at all that we are against it now. I have just addressed the question of how effective it is to use it now and how feasible it is. One of the reasons why people are becoming cynical about politics in The Hague is, in my view, that we are raising expectations here that are not being fulfilled. I want to know how the cabinet sees the effectiveness of stopping visa-free travel now. That's one. How feasible is it? How realistic is it? I would also like to send the Minister out with the message of peace tomorrow in the Middle East. That's a good idea, but I don't know how feasible it is. That is just a question I have in this debate. At the end of the debate, I will make the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u57	I think people get very cynical when politicians stop fighting for what they believe in. When we see what a huge problem this is... We have also come up with an emergency braking procedure in case of undesirable effects of visa liberalisation and we dare not even say to each other 'this is now the case; stop it; tackle the crime but do it'. Isn't that what makes people very cynical? You're thinking, "I can't do it." We don't even fight for it anymore, for our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u58	In my view, we are now debating whether it is effective and whether it is feasible to press that button. If the answer to that question is "yes," I'll press that button right here. I'm not afraid of that at all. But I'd like to know from the cabinet how they see it. We have just received a letter stating that there is no political support for it at all. Then I think: let us ask the cabinet how they look at the possibility of threatening visa-free travel at EU level, that Albania will lose that right if it does not make some significant improvements. Then you stay in conversation and use it as leverage. I would like to know from the cabinet: do you see this as more effective and feasible, also politically and also at European level, because this is a European issue? Do you see that as more feasible and effective? If the answer is yes, maybe we should take that route. I think it's about the end result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u59	I really think it's a softness that really scares me. You are talking twenty to thirty times about feasibility. Do you know how to create feasibility? By just standing up for something. By simply ordering the cabinet to do what it has to do. But if you lie on your back in advance with the legs up, it is certainly not feasible. The problem of feasibility is that parties like the VVD simply don't fight for the cause. The second point is effectiveness. You have common sense, don't you? You can think for yourself, can't you? Surely you do not have to ask the Cabinet about the effectiveness of the visa requirement? For example, a visa requirement includes a public order test. Then you can look at the question: who is a criminal and who isn't? Then you can stop them. It's very simple, isn't it? You are hiding behind everything now, but that is simply pure political cowardice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u60	I haven't actually heard a question, Mr President. There is now talk of 'no fighting', but if there is one party that does not fight, then it is the party that stands there. It runs away as soon as it gets difficult. What matters is that we are not standing here with a bit of tough talk, but that we are thinking about real measures that help the police. For example, we could have a conversation with the police to transfer all climbers to the Return and Departure Service by default and not send them. I have received signals that this happens sometimes. Then you make sure that they are not only transferred to the Return and Departure Service in Rotterdam, but also in Eindhoven, in Venlo, or wherever it happens. I think we can find each other at that point. I think we should look together for this kind of feasible measures. You can say: what do you care about this feasibility? Well, if you want to do something, you're really gonna have to think about it. There's a letter from the cabinet that says so. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u61	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u62	If you want to achieve something, you just have to order the Cabinet to do something. You are there to answer that question about feasibility. You just don't want it. But if you say that the visa waiver should not be granted, and if you are willing to turn the screws on in the cabinet, and if we all want it, it will. But you don't even want to try. You don't even say, "Try it." You say right away "it's probably not feasible," and you lie on your back with the legs up. It's really a mess I'm afraid of. One last question. There were reports in the media that the VVD is indeed in favour of re-establishing the visa requirement. I take it those papers didn't write it down wrong. I wonder why the political branch of the VVD always says something different than the marketing branch of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u63	Words are being put in my mouth here, as if I were against it. I just said this. There's a letter from the cabinet. We have just received it, and it says that you need support in Europe if you want to do this. It also states that there is no support for it. That is a fact that I note here. Then you can laugh and then you can walk away, but that doesn't change that fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u64	But why throw the towel in the ring before the game is even played? A few weeks ago we had a debate on the export WW. Then the Minister of Social Affairs said, "That's not gonna work. We're gonna lose that. This round has lost the Netherlands." A day later it all turned out to be very different. And now the whole thing's been put on hold. What's the VVD's point of view? Because you can't hide behind the government. It has already taken a position: we are not going to do it. Let's face it: fate is now in the hands of the VVD, because D66 doesn't want it at all. What is the VVD's own position on this? Are you going for that visa or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u65	I have just indicated that this whole visa-free travel was on loan to Albania and the Albanian population. That right to visa-free travel is temporary. It's on loan, so it's not a gift. It is also accompanied by a heavy responsibility, namely to work on an anti-corruption agenda and the fight against crime there. I share all the concerns you have about that. That's why we're here. That's why I'm here tonight. That responsibility must be fulfilled. If that is not enough, of course you have to press that button. I am not misunderstanding about that at all. My point is that we should not pretend that the visa requirement has been introduced tomorrow when we press the button here today, as if it were the same as the bell that goes into this house. By the way, I like the metaphor of that button, but that button isn't built like that. We give orders to a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u66	I can't tie a rope to this. It's obvious! The police say, "Give us a visa." I don't understand why the VVD would drop the police so hard at this point. People are threatened, there is smuggling, drug trafficking, sheer crime and there are climbers. These are all issues that could be covered by a visa requirement. What the Cabinet is going to do in Brussels and what it is going to do with support. It is now a question of the substance of the matter. The police are asking for a visa. Do you support them or drop them, I ask the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u67	That was the same question you just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u68	I think we all want to send a signal towards Albania and towards Europe. The question is what signal. At the end of the debate, we decide how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u70	I have already asked a question about the Minister of Justice and Security's willingness to discuss this uniform approach with the police, so that people are handed over to the Return and Departure Service by default. Contrary to what has been said before, the police now have a title to pick up visa-free people and send them back to Albania. Then there's the money that criminals make and invest in catering. I hear there might be some capacity issues at Bibob. How's that? Is that right? Is capacity expansion obvious? I would also like to ask the Minister whether this is what the Albanian problem is all about, to say the least, confiscate the police capacity in Rotterdam and whether this does not put too much pressure on other security tasks. Finally. If we want to see the drug flows, do we not need more police liaison officers in South America, for example, for cooperation with the police? Is this a possibility for the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension of about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u72	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u73	Mr President, thank you. Following reports in the media and a confidential report on the nature and extent of crime committed by persons of Albanian nationality, your Chamber asked written questions in 2017. This debate was also requested at the time. The report in question indicates the number of police-registered incidents involving persons of Albanian nationality and also indicates that the numbers are relatively low, but also in absolute terms. However, it can be seen that the number of serious offences of an organised nature within these low numbers is relatively high. The problem is concentrated in Rotterdam and Amsterdam with regard to the trade in cocaine and, as we have seen recently, in Limburg with regard to organised illegal hemp cultivation. No misunderstanding: as far as I am concerned, work needs to be done, and this is also being done to tackle criminal Albanians and criminal Albanian gangs who are involved in organised drug crime. Regional, national and European efforts are already under way. The police have recently invested in the knowledge position of Albanian-speaking criminals. Capacity has been deployed on the basis of a number of prioritized themes. In this context, the fight against organised drug crime is still a priority in every police unit. If criminal Albanians are involved, they will, of course, be dealt with in more detail. There is no specific approach by the police and the Public Prosecutor to Albanian criminal gangs. There is a good information network and a good information position at national level. From this information position we point out the problem and follow-up actions are taken. We work closely with the German, Belgian and British investigation services. Cooperation is also taking place at European level. You have heard that last Friday there was a major police operation in the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, in which an Albanian gang was hit. More than 60 people have been arrested. There were seven arrests in the Netherlands. In order to further improve judicial cooperation with Albania, I signed a Memorandum of Understanding last May. In doing so, our police, judicial authorities and immigration services commit themselves together with the same services from Albania to intensified cooperation. A number of things have already taken place in this context. Last but not least, there was an expert meeting organised by the Netherlands in February with representatives of the two investigation services. We are now engaged in an extensive exchange of information. At the end of March I paid a visit to Tirana. That visit was to record with each other the situation with regard to the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding. I spoke with three cabinet members: the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. In particular, I have made further agreements with the Minister for the Interior on the actual transfer of information that is important to us. I can tell you that I have sent you a confirmation letter of our further appointments. Today I have received an answer from him, in which he has underlined that the information that has been requested will continue. That is important information, because this is really about all kinds of data that we need to get a better picture of the Albanian gangs. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the questions. I will go through this with speed, with most of the visa questions being answered by the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u74	Perhaps on the previous point, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u75	The Minister has spoken to a lot of people, but I would simply like to hear from this Minister of Justice and Security whether he has also spoken with our own agents, who are asking for a visa requirement for Albanians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u76	I haven't talked to all the agents in the Netherlands, but I have talked to the police chief who is quoted in the 2017 parliamentary questions. I spoke to the chief of police in Limburg a few weeks ago. That's how I made work visits last Monday... I will not list them all, because then I shall end up with you, Mr President, to some degree of displeasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u77	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u78	I would like to avoid this at all times, but I would like to say that last Monday, in Amsterdam, I had an extensive briefing on the Albanian problem and where it is taking place. Let me be very clear: I see it as a problem which is not very extensive in the Netherlands in relative but also in absolute terms, but which is serious crimes and gangs that are represented in the cocaine pathway from starting product to end product. So we have to take it very seriously, precisely because it is at a much earlier stage than, for example, in the United Kingdom. So the services are on top of that, and I'm on top of that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u79	My question was whether the Minister of Justice spoke to the police about the need for a visa requirement. That's actually what the police are asking. I would like to know what the Minister will reply to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u80	I talked to the police about fighting Albanian gangs. The police have spotted the problem as I have just described it. The issue of visa requirements will be dealt with by my foreign minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u81	That is a question that has also been asked by many Members of Parliament. So I guess that's gonna come back a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u82	But, Mr President, Mrs Van Toorenburg asks if I have spoken to the agents myself. I speak extensively with agents in all those regions where it plays, mostly in Rotterdam, Amsterdam and Limburg. But I have also been informed about the Schilderswijk about what is going on in the area of crime and insecurity, because that is my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u83	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u84	Mr. Chairman. Mr Grothuizen asked whether it was true that many criminal Albanians have a false or stolen passport from an EU country. Yeah, that's right. There are many good contacts of the Dutch investigation services with those services abroad. I've already pointed that out. We have a Benelux liaison in Albania. I spoke to him two weeks ago. That's one of the information points I pointed out. I have agreed with my colleague from the Interior in Albania that we want more concrete data and information from their services. Mr Van Dijk asked what I am going to do about the criminal Albanians. I hope I have answered that. However, I would like to say that I expect further cooperation agreements to be reached at Europol this year as well. Mr Van Dijk also asked how many registered Albanian suspects there are. Following an increase to 710 police-registered suspects with Albanian origin in 2016, the number of registered suspects decreased to 499 in 2017. That decline continued in 2018 to 476, but as I said at the beginning, it is all people who are involved in the serious crimes. So just the fact that those numbers are going down doesn't please me. At least, I am still on top of it with the services, because it is generally serious drug crime and trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u85	A brief question about those hundreds of Albanian suspects who are registered. How many of these have been demonstrably removed from the Netherlands, hopefully after serving a heavy sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u86	I can't say one-two-three. I can all give numbers around the so-called chain-wide departure. This is an outflow that consists of handled departures; strangers leaving with help. But that's a container number. With the suspects I just spoke of, we're talking about registered Albanian suspects, many of whom have been taken into custody. Anyway, I can't say in concrete terms how many of them have been deported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u87	Perhaps the cabinet can look into that, because it is important to check the effectiveness of a cabinet approach. If these criminals don't leave the Netherlands, then nothing will be solved, because they'll keep kicking shit here. It would be nice if we could get figures on how many of these Albanian criminals have actually left the Netherlands, otherwise we don't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u88	I'll make it up to you. I will pass on this question to Mr Harbers, which means that I promise on behalf of the cabinet that we will return with those figures, but you will get an answer from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u89	So the Chamber will receive a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u90	Yeah, that's right. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to turn to Mr Van Wijngaard's question as to whether more police liaison officers are needed if we are to have a closer look at these drug flows. That's right. At the moment, I don't see any reason to place extra liaison officers we already have in South America. A liaison officer has recently been added to Spain, but this is related to other crime, including drug crime. We currently have liaison officers in Suriname, Colombia, Curaçao, Panama and in the Dominican Republic, whom I spoke to last year. We have a good liaison and information position in this respect. These liaison officers are in most cases accredited in several countries for the performance of their duties. I can give much more details about this, but they can also be found in the previous correspondence on this subject. Then I'm gonna talk about what people do. One more thing: the Maritime Analysis and Operations Centre Narcotics, the MAOC N, is in Portugal and there is also a Dutch liaison officer. This is a special partnership between a number of EU Member States with regard to the transport of drugs by sea, as the word'maritime' already says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u91	It's a little double. I hear there are liaison officers in a lot of countries, so apparently it's a concept that works. I do not know exactly how all these drug flows run, but I understand that the current flows, as far as the Albanian gangs are concerned, do not give reason to consider adding liaison officers in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u92	I have said, and I would like to stress, that at least there is an excellent Benelux liaison officer in Albania, but at the moment there is no reason to put even more liaison officers there, given how the drug flows are running in South America. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked about the seizure of the Albanian problem on the police capacity in Rotterdam. It's hard to tell. That depends on all kinds of factors. A separate portfolio of Albania has been invested within the Rotterdam police unit. In this they work together with the Zeehaven police. The approach focuses on operational actions in the Rotterdam unit, in particular on directing those actions in response to all knowledge and information. I have no signals that other safety tasks are being brought to the fore by the deployment from that portfolio in Rotterdam. Mr. Chairman. Then I had questions about the climbers, but I saw...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u93	No, don't invite MPs to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u94	No, that's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u95	Oh, but you did that to Mr Van Wijngaarden and now to Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u96	No, no, I'm not inviting anyone. But people come forward and I think I should stop. From now on, I'm not even gonna make it look like I'm gonna invite them. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about Moerdijk. I went there last December and talked to the mayor. I would like to stress that, on the whole, the climbers are not part of my portfolio, but I thought it important to go there, precisely because of the Albanian problem. Secretary of State Harbers went there at the beginning of January and he also spoke with the mayor. During the visit, agreements were made between the municipality and the operational services on the transmission of signals. The controls of the KMar, the Royal Marechaussee, and the seaport police and the supervision of the foreign police have intensified since 2015. We also work well with Belgian and British colleagues in the fight against climbers. If climbers are found, they must leave the Netherlands immediately. This also applies to Albanians with a right of residence, for example because they are still in a visa-free period. If people don't leave voluntarily, they'll be forced out. As a rule, they will be placed in custody unless they can immediately leave the country. They're also getting an entry ban. In addition, there is action in the event of criminal offences, such as possession of a false passport, destruction or illegal residence in another person's vehicle or on another person's property. That's also the instruction to police and KMar. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be on border patrol. Mr Van Wijngaarden's question was: how urgent is the dialogue with Slovenia to strengthen border management? All EU Member States are evaluated on the management of external borders, including Slovenia. This happens both periodically and unexpectedly. Results are always discussed with the individual Member State at EU level. The Netherlands also prefers to provide support through the European Border Management Agency Frontex. Frontex, as we know, assists Member States in border management at the external borders. The Royal Marechaussee makes a substantial contribution to Frontex. If Slovenia so wishes, a request for support can be made. Then Frontex will provide primary support, to which the KMar will contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u97	That was Mr Van Wijngaarden's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u98	Yeah, about Slovenia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u99	Just about to get there. There were signs that the police also sent people what I translate as: go away but that is not the instruction and not the standard procedure of the police. Do I understand correctly from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u100	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked what my work visit resulted in. I have already said a few things about this in the introductory text. But I would like to emphasise here that the reason why I went there was that the police very much appreciated the fact that we continued to be very well where we stand with the exchange of information. On some points, there was quite a bit of criticism. During that visit, we were able to help over the threshold. So it was also to help things further at government level. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked how the exchange of information on suspects with Albania would be monitored, so that this data does not end up with suspects via corrupt officials. Information is shared with Albanian authorities through bilateral legal assistance, police liaisons, and through Europol and Interpol. As has been said, there is an operational and strategic cooperation agreement for information sharing through Europol. This also means that Albanian liaison officers have been placed there. But, of course, there must also be all kinds of adequate safeguards to ensure that this goes well. If there are indications that information is being treated unlawfully in Albania, this is mentioned. This could lead to the suspension of the application of the agreement. I would also like to say in general terms that our own services are very well balanced and careful in assessing what information they want to share. And let me also make it quite clear that this was an interesting element of my discussion in Albania.... that we want primarily information from Albania, so that we can identify who it really is. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Wijngaarden asked whether we could put pressure on Albania to introduce a reporting obligation for suspicious transactions. Albania already has a reporting obligation for financial institutions to report suspicious transactions. They also have, like us, a Financial Intelligence Unit, an FIU. It is part of a global network of FIUs, called The Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units. One exchanges data with one another by means of a secureweb. By the way, Albania scores on the issue of effectiveness there is always a score in such a partnership when it comes to gathering financial information, the judgment "substantial." That's good. "High" is the highest score. And at the point of technical compliance with having a reporting system and an FIU, Albania scores an "LC": largely compliant. That's the highest score after "compliant" on that part. It only means that there are minor technical shortcomings. So in that respect, we must also say that the Albanian authorities are taking steps and are making progress. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about the money being laundered. What about the capacity of the Bureau of Bibob? That was actually the question. The municipality of Amsterdam can initially start its own investigation within the Wet Bibob. In the case of complex cases, further advice may be requested from the national office. Last year there was talk of a working stock at that rural office due to a peak in requests for advice. That work stash's been wiped out. There are major improvements in the lead times at the moment. There has also been further investment in capacity at the national office. The point raised by Mr Van Wijngaarden was therefore correct in the past, but has now been resolved. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more things. First, the expected effect of the Brexit. There is no comprehensive and exhaustive analysis available that asked CDA and D66 to perform one or more criminal phenomena and their development in the light of an upcoming Brexit. So at the moment we do not know anything specific about the consequences of the Brexit on certain criminal phenomena. Last year in London, however, there was an informal reconnaissance at operational level between British and Dutch police, military, FIOD and OM experts. The aim was to gain common insights into the possible development of six phenomena and their implications for detection, monitoring and enforcement. From that exploration it emerged that it is really difficult to predict, let alone determine, what developments and shifts will occur. So the experts haven't figured it out yet. In any case, developments such as the emergence of new markets and all kinds of new laws and regulations will have to be taken into account. However, our services will monitor and monitor this in practice. Mr. Chairman. Then the final point is the question of, I believe, VVD and CDA. How do I look at the relationship between visa-free travel and crime? Let me be clear: a direct causal link between visa requirements and organised crime has not been established. I myself, as Minister for Justice and Security, following extensive guidance from the services under my responsibility, have understood that re-establishing the visa requirement will not lead to a rapid and adequate resolution of crime committed by Albanian speakers. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the gangs we are talking about, and I have always said that the numbers in secs are still not so bad about serious crimes and large organisations, which, for example, are present in drug crime from start to finish. If you ask me, that is the connection between these two. Mr President, I have come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u103	I think we're just very disagreeable. The fact that we have a separate security officer Albania alone indicates, in my view, that we have a serious problem. I asked the Minister another question about the fact that at the moment, apparently, we are not evicting people to Albania because there is a fairly spicy criminal justice system there. We do not expel a police killer to Albania in the Netherlands, but we are happy that they come visa-free to the Netherlands. How do these two things relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u104	First of all, I am not going to deal with a specific case that is under trial. So I'm not gonna say anything about that. What I would like to say in general terms is that, as far as I am concerned, the following is also the subject of discussion with Albania. If we really get into situations like this, we would feel that the criminal justice system should be set up in such a way that, for example, we do not encounter any objections in the case of extradition. Moreover, in cases involving criminals from Albania, the Public Prosecutor's Office does the utmost to ensure that extradition is carried out or that the execution of the sentence is carried out here in the Netherlands. That is a general remark. I believe that Albania should have a rule in its criminal law so that we cannot experience any legal obstacle to extradition. That is a point that Mrs Van Toorenburg is right to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u105	I have to say, however, that at least the Minister of Justice does not want to obstruct the arrival of Albanians through the visa. Apparently, we continue to talk about the fact that they have a high sentence there. As a result, these criminals can come to the Netherlands without any problem because they have nothing to fear from our punishments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u106	This is, to a good anglicism that can jump to conclusions until 31 October. I didn't say anything about how I feel about that. I said that the part of the visa requirement is not mine. One of my main responsibilities is to fight organised crime. I note that there is a clearly organised Albanian crime that is also moving on our territory. I have also mentioned all kinds of figures and developments today. I have also indicated that the serious drug crime continues all the way from South America across the ocean. That's a serious problem. I'll take that. I'm not gonna tire you out again with all these partnerships and stuff. That's a big job for me, and I'm working hard on it. I also appeal to the Albanians to cooperate. I think there are other conclusions to be drawn about me and my policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u107	Mr Van Wijngaarden has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u108	As regards visa requirements, the Minister has already made a relativisation: this may not help very much against the serious criminals. But bad criminals could have started out as little boys. How, then, does he indicate that police forces are asking for such a visa requirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u109	As I have said, I do not go too far on the issue of visa requirements. The police are sending out clear signals about Albanian organised crime, which I also see, and is also being reported to me on this and on the less serious crime committed by people of Albanian nationality. We take them seriously and forcefully. That's what I need to focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u110	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u111	However, we can also see that the smaller boys would, of course, be affected by a visa requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u112	That is not something I note, because I have explained that that causal link has not been established at the moment. Mr Van Wijngaarden was right to say that it is important to ensure that resources do not suddenly go to something and that other things are at risk. So I'm gonna have to keep an eye on that. I just want to say that. I will tell you that if there are causal links in society between something we do or do not do and organized crime, I will immediately go to that thing to see if I can do something with it. But if that causal link has not been established, as Minister of Justice and Security, I have to look back in that direction and deal with organised crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u113	The question is rather: how many causal links does the Minister want? I have here the numbers of registrations of Albanian suspects. For the visa waiver, there were around 100; after the 2010 visa waiver, that number grew rapidly to 720 in 2016, to 440 in 2017. So at least this is just fivefold. The problems have doubled fivefold. How can the Minister maintain that there is no causal link? This is quantitative, but I also have an example of quality. Even Frontex says there is a causal link between visa waiver and illegality. And because many Albanians here are illegal and criminal, that causal link is, of course, there. So I really object to the cabinet's refusal to recognise that a visa waiver is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u114	Mr Fritsma reads numbers. He does that very quickly at some point, but if he does that slowly again, then he will also find that with what I have just read, there is a certain decrease in the number, so I scratch behind the ears and think: fuck, what about that causal link? I continue to stress that, as Minister of Justice and Security, I have two reasons to be very careful whether or not I see causal links. That is firstly because you, as a Chamber, rightly monitor me for a sensible expenditure of resources. If I'm going to see causal links that aren't there, because the figures are open to all kinds of explanations, then I don't have to do that. And the second reason is that I am ultimately concerned that I am talking about organised Albanian crime, including the smaller Albanian crime, and I am also saying that this word is out of the question! We must tackle crime. I'm gonna have to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u115	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u116	Even with the reduction indicated by the Minister, the problem is still about four to five times greater than for the visa waiver. So that's still causally related enough. Apart from the numbers, look at the practice! The police in Amsterdam say: it is growing above our heads. The police in Limburg say the same thing. Even the police are calling for a return of that visa requirement. And then there is a minister who is responsible for security, who says: we are not doing anything about the visa waiver, because it is not part of the problem. Here is the problem that the Minister simply denies that there is a problem, namely the visa waiver. I'm really asking the Minister again to take a closer look at this. Talk to your policemen in practice, because they also say: we want to get rid of the visa waiver. Why don't you listen to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u117	As long as we're doing numbers: I added it up this week. I've made 49 work visits to the police, 24 of which were totally or largely undermining. I wrote to your Chamber in October a comprehensive letter describing exactly how the EUR 100 million of the undermining fund is spent. Also because there are causal links, that money is being spent where we can see that organised crime is on the increase and is indeed causing our police and our other services to break head. That is what I have been appointed to do, and I am quite right to be called upon to do so. But if I say that there is no causal link to be established, then I should not go after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u118	I would like to take away the impression that the police would not want a visa requirement. That impression seemed to arise from the Minister's speech. He also recognizes that the police have argued for a visa requirement, doesn't he? Chief Frank Paauw did that in Nieuwsuur. The police in Amsterdam say: visa requirements can help prevent criminal Albanians from taking root in Dutch society. Does the Minister share the view that the police think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u119	Mr Frank Paauw is certainly not the Chief Constable. I think you mean Mr Akerboom. I hear Mr Van Dijk saying that he means the chief of police in Rotterdam. Good. Let's start with that. I didn't say there were no signals from the police. I was asked by Mrs Van Toorenburg: did you discuss this with the police or did the police report it to you? I have made it very clear that my many conversations with the police, not only with Mr Paauw, but also with the district agent in a district of Amsterdam this week, are mainly about what we see about organised crime, what it consists of, how it is organised and what we can best do about it. It is therefore a question of combating this crime. I have just explained, on the issue of the causal link, that it is not expected that the introduction of the visa requirement will resolve the problem of large, organised Albanian crime in the foreseeable future. That's, I think, the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u120	Okay, but then the disclaimer is in the big crime; that leaves the small crime and the climbers, of which the police clearly say: a visa requirement can contribute to a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u121	If by "small crime" you mean... Let me give you an example: people who are on their own in drug trafficking or something like that. In essence, the same applies to them, because they are very often associated with this greater crime, at least as shown by Tops' investigation. The problem of climbing in is different and much more stubborn. I said that when people who have illegally climbed vehicles and the like are found there, lick is given. For me as Minister of Justice, the issue of organised crime, including Albanian organised crime, is an important priority. That's why you've heard me say that so many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall first address the questions concerning the visa waiver and the emergency braking procedure and then a number of specific questions. First of all, the visa waiver. In abolishing the visa requirement for Albania, a number of conditions have been set by the European Commission, including cooperation in the field of readmission and readmission of Albanian nationals, anti-corruption measures within Albania and the fight against cross-border crime. The fulfilment and continued compliance with these criteria is constantly monitored by the European Commission. This is also the subject of annual reporting, last December. The Commission's idea of this last December was that there is still room for improvement in important areas, but that Albania does fulfil the conditions laid down. Against this background, I am looking at the desirability and feasibility of using the emergency braking procedure, which a number of Members of Parliament have asked questions about. First of all, I will deal with the feasibility of this. In its final assessment, the Commission has also indicated that Albania fulfils the conditions laid down, but still has to make progress in a number of areas. That is why recourse to the emergency braking procedure is in fact unopposed. In the event of an appeal, if the procedure were to end, the Commission would carry out an investigation and put forward a proposal on that basis. But because such an investigation has been carried out very recently, we know what image will come from it. If the Netherlands nevertheless makes such an appeal, it will not go unnoticed, not in Albania and not in other places, and of course it will lead to a reaction. We work closely together in a number of important areas. The colleague of Justice and Security went into that. In addition to the specific area of the fight against crime, this includes the return of foreigners and asylum seekers rejected in the Netherlands. Cooperation in this area is good. Of course, we think it is very important to keep it that way. What is to my taste, then, the right way? This is close cooperation with Albania in further reforming the rule of law. So that's exactly what we're doing. That is in the interests of the Netherlands, because this crime is indeed cross-border. In addition, Albania has aspirations to start accession negotiations with the European Union. The Netherlands has always indicated that Albania does not meet the criteria. A very important point for us is that much more progress needs to be made in the fight against crime and the fight against corruption. Moreover, we are prepared to support Albania in this respect, because we ourselves have an interest in this. Mr Groothuizen asked: what would happen if visa-free travel were to be removed? I have already indicated that this will not receive any support from the European Commission. There is little or no support for this in other European countries. But could it have an effect as a thought experiment? Being able to travel within Europe is something much appreciated by other European countries and by countries outside Europe with which we have such agreements. I have already indicated that the start of such an emergency braking procedure by the Netherlands will lead to reactions. If that were to go any further, but I repeat: I do not expect that to happen soon. I do not want to rule out that we would ever want to use it. The emergency braking procedure doesn't exist for nothing. However, in this particular case, I do not see sufficient points of reference for this. Mr Fritsma specifically asked about the government's position on visa liberalisation for Kosovo. On this point, the cabinet has always made it clear that we still believe that the conditions are not met. Kosovo is also required to tackle crime, corruption, organised crime and the rule of law. We do not see sufficient progress in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u124	I would like to return to the visa waiver for Albania. The Minister says that even if you wanted that visa requirement again, there is no basis for it, so we are not even trying. That's actually what the Minister says. But this is the very essence of the problem, because this is what we hear all the time. We do not really want to give asylum seekers a residence permit, but yes, Brussels says 'if they have been in prison for less than six months, they must'. Yeah, there's no basis to change that. Exactly the same with the tightening up of partner and family migration: we cannot change that, because Brussels... The list is far too long and then, of course, the question arises: should you continue to bow down to Brussels? Why doesn't the Minister act a little harder and give him a little more counter gas in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u125	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u126	Why do we have to take all this as a sweet cake?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u127	We are not talking about a long list. We are talking about the use of the emergency braking procedure for visa liberalisation and then the Chamber is entitled to let me know how it is being dealt with in other European countries. If I didn't, I wouldn't do my job. I have to maintain contacts, my people have to maintain contacts, with the European Commission and with other EU Member States. We need it because the procedure doesn't know any other route. That question was asked by Mr Van Dijk and the answer to it is: no, there is no other way to introduce a visa. There is no other route and this would be a completely pointless debate if I did not explain that there is currently no support in Europe for the route you are asking for, not from the European Commission and not from the vast majority of the other European countries. That is an essential part of the debate and it would even be wrong if I did not give you that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u128	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u129	The cabinet won't even try. You can start that procedure as an individual Member State and then you can convince other countries. Then you can say: listen, half our underworld is dominated by Albanian criminals? But you're not even trying! Why do you not explain to your colleagues in Europe that we are being buried among hundreds of Albanian criminals who, to quote the minister, are guilty of very serious crimes: violence and drug trafficking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u130	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u131	And you take it for sweets. You work for Brussels bureaucrats instead of for the safety of our society. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr Fritsma pretends that I never speak to my colleagues. I'll talk to them extensively every month, and I'll talk to them for two days this week. He continues to pretend that I would not have very expert officials at the Permanent Representation in Brussels. He's also in regular contact with that. Finally, he pretends that we do not have embassies in all European countries that maintain close contact there. And we would have no idea how a Dutch initiative for an emergency braking procedure would land? If that were the case, you would rightly blame me for having no idea what is happening in other countries and the diplomats have no idea what is happening in their country. Then you could rightly blame me. We do have that image, and I have to give you that image honestly, and I'm doing it here. I understand that it would be annoying that it is a different picture than you would have hoped, but that doesn't change anything about those facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u133	The Minister indicated that he saw little support in Brussels for a possible emergency braking procedure. He also indicated that visa-free travel in Albania was of course appreciated. I am also very curious to see how he is looking at such a unilateral step by the Netherlands in the context of our wider efforts to stabilise and help the Western Balkans. Does he think it wise that we should send this signal from the Netherlands or does he say "no, I prefer to go for cooperation, because I see that we still have a lot of work to do in that region'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u134	In this particular case, I find it unwise, because there is no chance and we note that Albania is working well together in a number of important areas. I also indicated that I do not think that you could never use an emergency braking procedure. I have also indicated to you that we say to Kosovo, where there is also a desire for visa liberalisation, that the steps have not been made right at the moment. Then I realise that this would lead to a counter-reaction in Kosovo, as well as in many European countries which want to grant visa liberalisation. So it's always a case-by-case assessment. In the case of Albania, I say, on the basis of all the considerations I mentioned, that I find the start of an emergency braking procedure, first of all, hopeless and, secondly, counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u135	The Minister has just put the political feasibility into perspective, but then he indicated that if we were to do this emergency braking procedure, it would not go unnoticed in Albania. In other words, this would send out an important signal. Such a warning, such a severe warning to Albania that this is a right on loan, which they must handle very carefully, can be very desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u136	We stress the importance of combating crime. We don't need this signal for that. There's a close cooperation. There is also room for improvement. In addition to this discussion, there is also a discussion with Albania about their desire for accession to the European Union, on which we are strict, because we are making even higher demands on the quality of the rule of law and on the fight against crime. So I don't need this instrument again. I don't expect any results from this to be able to send out a clear signal for an even better approach to crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u137	Isn't this what makes people very cynical about Europe? That we are pretending to introduce a measure, namely an emergency braking procedure, but when exactly the situation of this disruption arises, we have special officials in the Netherlands to deal with the criminal mafia from Albania! We don't pull that emergency brake, because we still need it. That makes you totally unbelievable, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u138	I'm giving you the truth here, the information the Chamber is entitled to. If Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to add the consequence that people become cynical of the truth, then I leave that consequence for Mrs Van Toorenburg. You can expect me to tell you what I and my people hear in Brussels and at our posts in Europe. This is what we're hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u139	And what I want to hear, as a parliamentarians, is a minister who says straight up in Europe: up to here and no further. We're seeing this huge Albanian crime. That's disruptive for our society. Our police, our public prosecutor's office, are asking for a new visa, but he's just not doing it! We want the Minister to show that he is acting and I find it very disappointing that the Minister is unable to say to Europe: this is disruptive for the Netherlands, I think we should apply the emergency braking procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u140	Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that this cannot be done. So if she's afraid of cynicism, then her own contribution won't help. Because Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that an individual country, whether that is the Netherlands or another country, cannot call the emergency braking procedure on its own. To suggest here that that might help, I think, doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u141	The House of Representatives, the national parliament, can say very clearly that there is a need to pull that emergency brake. The Minister, certainly with his current attitude, runs the risk that the House of Representatives will ask and that the Minister, possibly against his wishes, will then be sent to Brussels with that wish of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u142	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u143	It would be much stronger if he said: yes, I see the police's desire, I see the concerns among the people and I see the rising crime; I'm going to do my best, I'm going to pull that emergency brake and I'll see how many countries I'm getting. Why not the sting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u144	I believe that my job is to let the Chamber know what the reaction will be from other countries, from the Commission, to that wish, which I have heard very clearly from you. Wouldn't it be very unprofessional if I didn't let you know? That reaction will come when you say: go ask again. But let's say I'd paint the picture here: well, that's what we're gonna ask, because there's quite a chance that it's gonna work. I mean, wouldn't I want to hurt the truth? I'd be wrong to inform you, wouldn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u145	Yeah, but this is defeatism, that's how I learned in school. You are already bowing to defeat, and you do not know how it goes! If you say here 'yes, I see substantive grounds for pulling that emergency brake', because that is what the Minister is going around, then step two, namely the process in Brussels, comes. But the Minister doesn't even want to do that, because he says: I'm losing it anyway! I think that is a very remarkable way of working. I have already referred to the export WW, where it also went quite differently from the Minister's initial assessment. So start from the substance of the emergency brake, instead of saying: it's not going to work anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u146	Mr Van Dijk gave quite a qualification for his old school by saying that he learned there that if a minister lets out what the facts are, that defeatism would be. I hope your former teachers aren't listening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u147	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u148	I have indicated to you that there are substantive considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u149	Those teachers are very proud of Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u150	It's nice that these teachers are proud of Mr Van Dijk, but they won't be because of what he just said. But there will undoubtedly be many other reasons why they are proud of Mr Van Dijk, and I would like to offer him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u151	And now for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u152	Back to the subject. I gave you the substantive considerations. Criteria have been laid down in advance for Albania. The Commission shall carry out an annual review of compliance. The Commission has also stated in its latest report that it is being complied with. It is written that there is certainly room and need for improvement, but that it is fulfilled. I also drew your attention to the fact that I repeat that the Netherlands strongly believes that Albania still needs to take some important steps forward and that we are also having consequences, but that Albania is working well together in areas such as the fight against crime and the withdrawal of rejected asylum seekers. But these facts had already been heard by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u153	How many questions do you have to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u154	I've got three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u155	Are these also Mr Jasper van Dijk's, or have you already had them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u156	There is a question first from Mr Van Wijngaarden, because he spoke in favour of Mr Van Dijk. Then there are two further questions from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u157	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u158	Yes. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked whether the cabinet was prepared to keep the Chamber regularly informed of the anti-corruption measures being implemented in Albania. We will be happy to do so. We are also doing this at the moment because the Commission reports annually on the measures that Albania is taking. We have informed the Chamber about this in recent years, and we will continue to do so. Mr Van Dijk asked why visa liberalisation was decided at the time, and whether there was a larger plan behind it. Was Albania to become a member of the European Union? Visa liberalisation is agreed with both countries with an ambition to become a member of the European Union and Albania belongs to that category as well as with countries that do not have that ambition but find it enjoyable as the inhabitants can travel visa-free to the Netherlands. So there is no direct connection in itself with that ambition, which Albania does have. Moreover, the Chamber knows that the Netherlands believes that Albania is not ready to start accession negotiations, because there are still a lot of steps to be taken to achieve this. That is what the Netherlands currently think with a small number of other European countries. I had already answered Mr Van Dijk's last question in an interruption: there is no other route to introduce a visa requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u159	Did you also answer Mr Jasper van Dijk's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u160	Yeah, I just answered two questions from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u161	Okay. Mr Jasper van Dijk was actually earlier, but it doesn't matter. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u162	Well, Mr. Chairman. This is a final attempt, because I fear that the first term will come to an end. I'm asking the Minister to get back on the ground. Isn't that something that should appeal to him from his party's point of view? I'm just asking him to stand next to the police and the people in the justice department. They say that we could use that visa instrument to tackle crime in our country, the Netherlands. Why does the Minister drop the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u163	The policeman or wife, or the district attorney, deserves my deep appreciation for the difficult work they do. But they also deserve an honest answer to their question. I gave you that honest answer, and so did the policeman and wife, and the district attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u164	Finally, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u165	So the extremely technocratic response of this minister to the policeman asking for help is: I am not going to help you, because I have no support in Europe. This is not a strong story, Madam President. I would advise the Minister to go back and see who his allies are. Is that police and justice, or is that the bureaucrats in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u166	This is another time when a former teacher of Mr Van Dijk, who is now watching, is not proud of Mr Van Dijk and thinks: I taught him what demagogy is, the twisting of facts and not giving a proper account of what the speaker has just said. Indeed, I have made it very clear what steps we are taking to tackle Albanian crime. I have indicated that there is close judicial cooperation, that there is good cooperation in the expulsion of Albanian nationals, that we want to intensify that too, and that the Albanian aspirations to become a candidate for EU membership are very closely examined in our view. That's all mentioned. That could have just been mentioned by Mr Van Dijk in his interruption. Then he would have made his former teacher proud again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u167	Let's talk about the honest answer. That is a bit at the heart of the debate, I think: what are the expectations now? An emergency braking procedure is not the same as the introduction of a visa requirement, because it requires the support of the other countries first. This is the emergency braking procedure. In any case, an emergency braking procedure will send an important signal to Albania, where it will not go unnoticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u168	That emergency braking procedure is to ask for the re-entry of a visa requirement. You can't pull that apart. I have indicated to you that the Commission's answer to the question whether Albania still meets the criteria will be no different in April, since they reported in December that Albania meets the criteria. With regard to the support of other Member States that you would need: there may be some Member States that support us, but it is not enough to re-introduce the visa requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u169	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u170	That is where the Minister outlined the reality to us. But strictly speaking, it's two different things. The first is the emergency braking procedure which sends a signal, including to Albania. It may be very desirable to give that signal. The second is whether we can get a majority for that. We have said of this: no too high expectations or other Member States are to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u171	Okay. Then you have made this point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u172	Yeah, but it's about what signal. The signal I have outlined is that a country that is working well with us in important areas will still feel that this is an unjustified blow to the fingers. That is a signal, but my assessment is that that signal will not help the Netherlands in the end, namely to fight crime together with Albania.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u173	Thank you. No, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. If you don't mind, I'll ask you to take your question with you in your second term. We now move on to the second term of office and I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u174	Mr. Chairman. It can happen, and sometimes I just don't agree. Then let it be clear. We want this cabinet to fight to ensure that this emergency braking procedure is put into effect. The next motion serves that purpose. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a significant increase in criminal activity by the Albanian mafia in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas these criminal organisations abuse the opportunity to travel visa-free across Europe and thereby further expand their smuggling network;]] [[noting that the suspension of the visa requirement for Albania was subject to various conditions, including the fight against cross-border crime;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the European Commission the request to initiate the emergency braking procedure to temporarily suspend the visa liberalisation of Albania and to inform the Chamber of progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Drost, Jasper van Dijk and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for the answers they have given, but they are far from being enough for the PVV Group. This debate actually proves how bad it has been that the Netherlands has given the whole admission policy out of the hands of the EU. The Dutch interest is totally snowed under. We must do it now with texts such as 'we will never do that in Europe'. It is very sad to note that in this light Dutch society has simply lost to the European Union, where the cabinet is always slavishly behind. Unfortunately, we are seeing that again. I'm filing two brief motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Albanians return to the visa requirement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u176	This motion is slightly broader than the previous motion, because of course the PVV would also prefer to operate outside the EU. Mr. Chairman. The two motion is also important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is no visa waiver for Kosovo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u177	I would also point out that the cabinet has indicated that it also believes that Kosovo should not be granted a visa waiver, but an important point that the European Commission does want it to be. The question now is: is the cabinet going to bow again to the EU, or not? The cabinet has just said that we do not want an exemption for Kosovo. This motion therefore calls on the cabinet to actively stop doing so, because the European Commission wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u178	A brief question, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u179	Isn't that a little faint? We have a critical debate with the cabinet and we say: just do your best; do it anyway. And you're doing exactly what you're blaming the cabinet for saying in advance that you're not gonna be able to do it, so I have a motion. That's silly, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u180	No, I hope that the cabinet will be able to stop Kosovo's visa waiver. That's why I'm filing that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u181	The cabinet has indicated that it is not in favour of an exemption for Kosovo. And then you say, "I want to table a motion to make sure that doesn't happen anyway." You're supposed to let them do what they do, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u182	The point is that the cabinet stops the European Commission, because it wants a visa waiver for Kosovars. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u183	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP. I see that Mr Van Dijk also has a motion. I'd start with that. I think it's a long motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mr President, this is Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion. So I am glad to hear that I no longer have to table a motion, because Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion is crystal clear. That means that this evening ends well, because despite the rather passive attitude of the cabinet, there is a good chance that this motion will reach a majority. This means that the cabinet should be on its way to Brussels with this motion in its pocket and that it should ask the European Commission to initiate the emergency braking procedure in order to suspend the visa liberalisation of Albania. I think that's very good news. I am very curious about the opinion of the cabinet. If this motion is to succeed, we are obviously asking the government to implement it very seriously. We are going to follow that closely. We will not let the Minister get away with a passive attitude in Brussels. That emergency brake needs to be used. That's what the House of Representatives decided today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u185	There's still a vote to be taken, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u186	That's good news. Greetings to dualism!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u187	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u188	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Albanian climbers in trucks are not in all cases transferred to the Return and Departure Service;]] [[considers that this should be the case;]] [[noting that uniform police practices can help in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the police to transfer, in principle, all Albanian climbers to the Return and Departure Service,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u189	The motion tabled by Mrs Van Toorenburg is a co-signatory because I believe that there are important relativisations to the expectations that we may have of starting the emergency braking procedure. I think it is good that everyone knows where we stand on the part of the cabinet and that it is very essential to send this signal to Albania, because if there is one country in Europe that knows how valuable free travel is, it is Albania. The residents haven't liked that for a long time. Think of this as a very serious warning that it really needs to be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u190	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I'll see if the Minister of Justice at first... Yeah? Oh, that's fine, too. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first motion, the one in part No. 239, calls on the Government to submit the request to the European Commission to initiate the emergency braking procedure. That is actually the debate I had a few minutes ago. I have indicated that, given Albania's cooperation, I do not think that this is right in terms of content and that it is impossible because of the reports of the European Commission and the positions of other European countries I know. So I must advise against this motion. The same applies on the same grounds for the Fritsma motion in part No. 240, in which he calls for the return of Albanians to the visa requirement. With his second motion, in part No. 241, Mr Fritsma asked the government to ensure that there was no visa waiver for Kosovo. If he adds 'as long as Kosovo does not meet all the conditions', I can leave him to his judgement Chamber. That is the government's position. If it is never at all and therefore not if Kosovo does meet the conditions, that would be unreasonable. If the current text of the motion is maintained, I must therefore discourage it. Mr Grapperhaus will comment on the last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u192	Yes. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u193	Mr. Chairman. That motion is support policy, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u194	Then the verdict is "Room"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u195	No, it's support policy, so the motion is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u196	What motion was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u197	The motion in part No. 242.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u198	That is the motion by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Van Toorenburg. So it's been dissuaded. Mr. Jasper van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u199	Exactly what you're saying, indeed. I ask for registration: is the President right? Was it dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u200	That's the assessment framework. As something like support...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u201	Policy support is not recommended. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u202	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-11-tweedekamer-11.u203	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Ministers for Justice and Security and Foreign Affairs, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the staff.
