ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue the debate, but before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to say something to the parents. Some of you are here for the first time, I understand. A number of parents also want to do their story. Only, as you have seen, it is a debate where the Members of Parliament also ask questions on your behalf and criticise the way things are going. It is very difficult for a lot of parents not to say anything back, but I hope and I think that Members of Parliament will also be in contact with all the parents and will also be able to listen to your stories again, as I have just been told, and then you can also do your story. But it is indeed customary for only Members of Parliament to speak in a debate. I hope you understand that. I can see Mr Omtzigt standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u2	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a number of MPs we also had lunch with a number of people. What stood out from the stories.... also the Secretary of State has heard them... is that of the people who are here today, some have CAF projects to do but also a large number of people not. Those people haven't been settled in for a while. Then everything will be recovered. They'll be at work by then. Every time they go to work and have a car, the car is recovered, they lose their jobs and they start from scratch and the debt runs. You're registered as a fraud. You can't find a place to live, and relationships break up. That cycle. This applies to many people in the gallery. Since we are only talking about the CAF cases here, I would ask the Secretary of State to answer in his speech the question of how he intends to deal with the non-CAF signals in order to see whether they can be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u3	Then Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u4	This was basically at the heart of my speech, which is much wider. The people sitting here are often also part of the SP hotline. It's all been given to the Ministry, so I'm assuming the Secretary of State can just go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u5	Good. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr President. There have rightly been a large number of critical questions about how it has all come to this, what I have done about it, why it has taken so long since the first cases that have been known. This discussion has many entrances. When I was just preparing how best to respond to this in my term, I thought there was really only one point to start with, and that is at the beginning, namely the intention of today's debate, which I am addressing to the parents. It can only be about one thing. This is where the government has been looking for a line and she has gone over it. A lot of people have been affected by that. We figured that out way too late. And also in the way we're trying to make it up to you now, things aren't going well from one moment to the next. I haven't talked to all the parents. I've just been downstairs, but I know there are a lot more stories than the few I just heard. To apologize for what I did before the summer, where I have no problem getting started again today, does not alter the fact that you have been harmed as parents. One of the most important things I have learned from the conversations is that the most important thing for you is that the recognition that you have not only been harmed but also that you have been designated as a fraud for as long as you have been appointed; a government that you designate as a fraudster without even knowing what is happening. Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Leijten and many other Members of Parliament have also spoken about this. I think everyone in this room actually thinks so. Now the question is how we are going to prevent this and how we are going to solve it for the issues that are also happening today. After Donner, of course, we are working on the CAF 11 investigation, but rightly so that Mrs Leijten, Mr Omtzigt and others here say: it may well be that once our conclusion is that there has been bias of a service, it is not one or two individual cases. There are people who report through the black book, for example. We now also have over 900 citizen reports. We now have an overview of 170 CAF cases that we investigated in the summer and we see that there are about 9,000 payment recipients attached to them. We want to look at them all and see if the same thing happened to the parents in the CAF 11 cases. It is also true that some people will continue to believe that things were really wrong. Then we won't be able to meet them. But there are a lot of cases where at least there was the assumption that something was wrong, but if you look longer and better, you will see that there was much more true. We're gonna talk about the law, the law fees. It's important, too. I know that every time I talk about the political climate or about the law, people are at risk of storming forward to say: yes, but it is also the implementation! Yeah, it's the execution, too, but it's not just the execution. The Donner Committee wanted to give us a very clear story on this. The law is decorated, without any form of human measure. It was also published today as "pumping money." It is quite easy to advance people up to tens of thousands of euros a year, but you can just as easily take that away again. That's the system we built around surcharges. I don't think that can be the system. I think Mr Bruins indicated it in a very nice way: when you checked it out beforehand, it went wrong, and when you checked it out afterwards, it went wrong. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that the system needs to be adapted, but we really need more knowledge and insight for that. That will not be easy, because we now have more than 7 million beneficiaries or allowances we pay. They're important to a lot of people to make ends meet. We just know that the way we're doing it now isn't enough. Again, this concerns legislation, the fight against fraud, and also the way in which the Tax Administration has taken up its duties. So let me say that first. And this didn't come from paper, it just came from my heart. I wanted to share that with you all. In a moment I will perhaps find more precise words for a number of things that have been raised here. Mr President, I see someone walking forward. I want to keep going, but maybe it'll help if I wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u7	Well, I actually want to know how you build up your speech. Then I can give the Members of Parliament the opportunity to ask about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. As I just said, we can go in any direction with this discussion. I've been trying to find an order. First and foremost is: how do we deal with the compensation of the parents in the CAF 11 case and the parents who were treated in the same way, but who happened not to be in a CAF case? Because if the same thing happened to them, I think they are entitled to the same thing in the end. That's gonna be block one: compensation. Block two will be about how it could have happened this way. What took you so long? What's my idea of that? Then, for example, I will also mention the culture of the Tax Administration, in which much has lingered. A third block is about how we can prevent it from happening in the future. What went wrong? What are the lessons we have learned now, looking back on this situation? How can we prevent this from happening in the future, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where parents are ground up by the action of the government? I understand that, because that is the wish of the House of Commons about what is going on: if so much has gone wrong, should people be responsible for it? That is actually the question of the Chamber. We can answer them in different ways. I'd like to say something about that, too. Finally, the fifth block. In that we should consider the system of surcharges. I will therefore go into what I believe will be the best way forward. Then I can also make the argument that I was just building up a little bit, namely that I think it can be done differently, also give hands and feet. We don't have to wait until we know everything, because before then we can do a number of things. And we will start really quickly with the point from the Council of State's statement of proportionality, the all-or-nothing character of which these people have all suffered. I wanted to say something about that, too. Those are the five cubes I have in mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u9	Okay. Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u10	9,000 people are covered by these fraud teams. It is the first time that this figure has been mentioned. Does the Secretary of State also have in a row how many people, other than those fraud teams, have been accused of misdemeanour/greve guilt and dealt with this recovery?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u11	As far as we can see now, we have 8,500 cases of intent/big debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u12	So that's on top of 9,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u13	You don't know that. Many of these discontinuations within the CAF files may well also have the label set up/greater debt for these parents. So they're subsets. I think Mrs Leijten is going to ask what exactly is going on. Let me take the example of the coercive actions. If we were to follow the order of the debate, we would come to that in a moment. My commitment has been to stop the coercive actions for the group CAF 11 for the group CAF other and for the cases of intent/greater debt. I have made this commitment; I have just read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u14	Perhaps it would be wise for the Secretary of State to go into this first? Is that an idea? For I see you asking a follow-up question, while the Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to raise a few things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u15	But here you see exactly what the problem is. We are receiving information at this meeting: 9,000 within the CAF, 8,500 set-up/greater debt. The Secretary of State says there may be overlaps. We can't control this, we can't see where this came from. We need a solution for these people here today. I was shocked to hear the Secretary of State say, "If there's been a mistake, there's nothing we can do about it." I think quite a lot of people have made a mistake, that something has gone wrong, but it has been disproportionate to call them "frauder." Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u16	I don't know exactly where you're getting that quote. I didn't say make a mistake. I believe that I gave a completely different view of how I felt it was going at the time, with my judgment in that regard. I have done so not only now, in this debate, but also earlier, in debates with your Chamber, in the direction of the parents and in various media actions I have given about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u17	Then I'd like to make the suggestion that you move on. After that, everyone will have the opportunity to ask questions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u18	I think it is good to say once again that I think it is important that there has been an apology and that there is recognition for the fact that they have been designated as frauders for far too long and that it has taken so long. Whatever we do and whatever compensation scheme we come up with and approve together, I realize that I will never be able to make up for the suffering that has been done to them. That's what I said to these parents before the summer: I'm afraid that's never gonna happen again. But I also understand that only an apology and recognition are not enough. That is why I believe that a generous compensation scheme is appropriate. I also think it's good to go into the reconstruction before I get to the exact blocks. We've been trying to figure out why things turned out the way they did. In March we said: we do not know a lot; we want to know much more. Are there other parents involved? Has the same happened in other CAF cases and should there be similar treatment? I asked the Donner Committee to put that in front of us. I asked the ADR, in my view, at the request of your Chamber, to provide more insight into this. We have also started digging and digging ourselves into the file in order to prepare these committees as best we can, but also to tell our own story. It is not that we opened a door somewhere from well-ordered files, which contained exactly what had gone right and wrong and which parents were connected to it. In part of the debate I tasted that a little bit and I want to make that right here at the beginning. At that time, for example, they asked how many court cases there were actually around CAF. That seems to be a logical and fair question, but at the time of a lawsuit, there is not already a label "CAF" on it. We have done our best to visualize this through all the bsn-numbers involved as much as possible. Unfortunately, in many of the cases relating to the exchange of information with the Chamber, you can also see that. I think there were some very legitimate questions, but I didn't have an answer to that one-two-three or couldn't give an explanation yet. One of the criticisms of the Chamber, which we discussed earlier and which I wanted to explain recently in my letter, is that there is always new information. I was afraid of that all the time, because we find new pieces over and over again, for example about those CAF evaluations. There are 15 evaluations. That was the inventory as we remember it in March. But when that question came up again, I could say: well, there are 75 now; I would be happy to share it with your Chamber if you really want, but do realize that those evaluations will probably not give the answer we are looking for in themselves. You've read it now. For example, let's look at the CAF 11 case: there were two A4s. In itself, that's not much to hold on to. But once you know what kind of story is behind it, and what we have to do to get those parents right, it gets much more complicated. So I chose to say regularly: yes, I would like to share the information with you, but also give me a chance to say at the same time how I can solve it. Otherwise, we will respond day in, day out to individual cases and I cannot say again and again what a solution is. So that's why I tried, and never with the idea of sending you from the locker to the wall, not informing your room properly or anything. I tried to do it carefully. Then there have been a number of discussions in the debate about training. It was said, it's all taking so long. Several Members of Parliament have asked questions about this. Before I go into the individual questions, I would like to point out that sometimes I was also angry because I didn't have the information and didn't know it exactly. I thought, if I give you information now, how can I be sure that's not different in two weeks? So I really wanted to be able to weigh it first, to keep a story there. And I have asked for the patience of your Chamber for that a number of times. I think that was important, because nobody wants me to say that something didn't happen, and a week later it turns out that it did. So I have put the patience of your Chamber to the test once in a while on that point. I'm sorry. That's what I said in the letters. But I think it has helped to choose a careful solution for people. And we can only make it up to you once! We can never make it up to you again, but if we try to make it up to you a little bit, we shouldn't do it in threes or fours. Then it'll have to knock in one go. Well, those are a few things that I noticed in the debate, which I wanted to respond to now. We will come to the conclusion that if you look back at the role of the Tax Administration and the rigorous application of supervision without human measure... That is a word that we have often seen come along and that I will probably use several more times during the afternoon. A law that was not very human, but also an implementation that actually did not add a human dimension to it, rather the opposite. I think that at the time the limits of enforcement were too much sought out. I have also said in my letter: and as far as I am concerned, I have actually exceeded it now and then. The performance was too rigid. The checks-and-balances in the surcharge system were insufficient and the legal framework did not match the human size I want to handle. And it has to be different. We can do this through a number of policy solutions, but it also has to do with the way we organise ourselves as a Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u19	The Secretary of State says I've put your patience to the test. I'm patient, but people don't have patience. They've been in trouble for years. The Council of State pointed that out in March 2017. The Ombudsman did so in August 2017. Does the Secretary of State now say that neither he nor the official summit before March 2019, i.e. more than two years after that ruling of the Council of State, was aware of the violations of law committed by the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u20	I would like to comment on that in the next block, but let me answer that question right now. I think I've been trying to describe quite clearly why things took so long, why it took us so long to take action. 'Cause that's the reproach. I still think that the officials who have been tracking fraud always felt that they were doing their job well and properly, that they were looking for a facilitator somewhere. For the sake of clarity, it was not the case that those parents were initially pursued; facilitators were sought. There were a number of well-known examples of very large fraud cases with surcharges, in which people took money from the government in a variety of ways. The Bulgarian debate is a fraud case that has been mentioned a lot. But it was more business. There were more concrete issues, especially child care payments, because there could be huge amounts of money, looking for things that could not be done. Those people just did. They then reported it to a team that was working on surcharges. They have said: we see a potential fraud here, someone doing something, and you have to be careful. In some cases, this has actually led to a conviction for fraud. We've talked to your room about that before. But then, like for example in this case CAF 11, the facilitator was not considered as a fraud. There's been a pre-weighing moment. It hasn't been decided that that was fraud. There may have been irregularities. But then something happened that I still regret, namely that the people involved in that case did not get their stop. This is very important, because now comes the point where Donner's advice is so "counting" so important. The moment you could conclude that one, but you had already left on the boat of "you are potentially the subject of fraud investigation," you had no chance. Those are the words I chose. That's what it looked like. I may have made a weird comparison with an Eastern European policeman, but somewhere it feels that way. The moment you were in that corner, there was no room in the law and in the execution for that human measure. And so that went on and on, with all the consequences of that. That point is why I think there should be compensation for these people. This applies not only to CAF 11, but also to others. They didn't stand a chance and were labeled a fraud. I see Mr Azarkan standing. I think he just brought it in very appropriate. That offense was a given and no one looked at the VAR anymore to see what had gone wrong. That was already going on, and I recognize that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u21	The problem was not the human measure, but the abuse of power through which people were destroyed and acted against the law. I'm trying to formulate my question very precisely. My question is: when did the administration know and when did the Secretary of State know that there was a systematic breach of law by the Tax Administration? And then what was done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u22	We have already had a debate on this particular question. That was the debate on 4 July. Earlier, in March, we also had a debate and wrote letters on this subject. In March this year it became increasingly apparent that it might be more than just CAF 11. We already knew that things took a long time and that we had allowed the objection periods to last far too long. That is why there was already talk at that time about intangible compensation. That amount of €500, is that it and is that right? What period are we talking about? That discussion. But it was all about CAF 11 and we were still very much relying on the idea that it all took a very long time and that we were unclear in the way we dealt with it. But we were not yet at the heart of where we are today, namely that it took not only a long time, but also that we have come to the conclusion that once people were put into that situation, there was almost no keeping to it. I didn't have a single sign of this in March, as I said earlier: it could well be, because there are other lawsuits. That's when I said, "That's right." I may not have a signal from this yet. I started talking to the Ombudsman and asked: do you know things, other than CAF 11, where so many things go wrong at the same time? The answer to that was no at the time. But, at the same time, I'd like to make sure it's true. 'Cause I've heard other things from all sides by now. At that time we decided, also at the request of the Chamber, to examine very precisely whether there are similar cases. We used it from March until finally November, with the letter. We didn't suddenly come up with that 9,000, which I think I wrote in the letter. There's something more to it than that, I believe. We said, "We didn't think of that one day after "Donner." That of course has been done all the time in that summer that has been used to fully investigate. We went through all those documents back then. Because once again: it wasn't like we opened a door or clicked on a disc somewhere and suddenly 170 CAF-businesses flew out. I wish it were that easy. In hindsight, it would've been so nice if we'd had that by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u23	The Secretary of State says: in March I found out and then I went looking further and the problem turned out to be bigger. How does this relate to the remark contained in his own letter that the 80/20 approach was explicitly decided by the tax administration? This meant that out of 20% of the people against the law in........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Against the law, this has been explicitly decided. Isn't that far ahead of March and done by the administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u24	This 80/20 ratio comes from a report........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the end, Donner says something about this whole political context. It was also said: until 2015 it was decided "if you think there is fraud somewhere, you go after it." Chamber letters, letters from Asscher and others, go into that. In the case of the fight against fraud, not only in these cases, but in all cases, including in the case of companies in the event of possible tax evasion, it may be possible to arrest someone who turns out to be innocent afterwards. The fact that you have 20% of the people... It is not a proven 80/20 ratio. It's a kind of management-like language of: yes, we know that people are being detained who may not have done anything. But the most important thing, I think, is that at that time there had been a realization that that 20% group that is being detained will probably also be fined in the end. Then I guess something really went wrong. Only, there wasn't that realization. The realization was: the moment you're arrested and we're going to see what's going on with your car, and you can show that it's right, then you can continue without penalty. Now and much later it turns out that that was not the case at all and that, once arrested, you almost always got that fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr Nijboer, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u26	The Secretary of State does not seem to understand the seriousness of this fact. He himself writes in the letter that the Bulgarian fraud has been committed, so we tackle everyone and 20% can be stopped innocently. Families ruined. You'll see them here. It's been explicitly decided. It's also against the law. It's in the letter you sent us, with the Donner Committee. That's very serious. That happened with the agreement of at least the official summit, and I ask you: did you know that? You didn't know? But this decision was taken well before March of this year, because these things are already very old. It has therefore continued for many years that the Tax Administration deliberately broke the law because of this fraud approach. That is the seriousness of this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u27	Madam President, I almost object to the idea that I would not take this matter seriously. I'll throw that right away. I take this case very seriously. I am trying to explain what I think the Donner Committee is saying very well, and much more comprehensively and more clearly than I can do now. Her conclusion is, in fact, that, even when looking for a mistake, you see something illegal. Can you then agree to say why this case is more serious than other cases, where we exceed, for example, time limits for objections? What's so serious about this? We've been watching for a very long time, and that should probably be him in some kind of unlawfulness. But Donner actually says: suppose everyone had followed the law exactly, suppose that the execution had done exactly that, then the situation was still that if you went through those steps, the outcome for those parents was the same. So it's actually worse. It's not like one or two people wearing bad glasses wanted to make other people's lives miserable. No, even more so, if they had complied perfectly with all our rules and implementation practice, with the idea of 'we are here to fight fraud', the outcome would have been the same. And that's exactly what I think is so serious. I'd like to do something about that. So I can't make it up to you anymore, but that's exactly what I think: that has to be different. You can't do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u28	The Secretary of State said a few sentences ago: once you were in that line of possible fraud, that your supplement was stopped, you didn't actually get out of it. Then it inevitably led to you losing everything and having to pay back; actually a situation that became hopeless. I wonder if that's true. My question to the Secretary of State is: are there any people from whom the supplement has been suspended, but has not been suspended, and who have subsequently objected in one form or another, who have perhaps submitted the documents that have been assessed and who have then received their supplement within three months or six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yes. There are also people who have objected to that very first time they were included on that list. Many of these objections have been justified. We have sent an overview of this to the Chamber, in which you can see it all. So it's not that it went wrong, by definition, but as soon as it goes down, and that's the element... We're almost getting a lot of things mixed up, but I'll try to peel this off for you, too. A reason it so often went wrong had to do with the all-or-nothing character. That's proportionality. That's a really important piece of the story. When you couldn't prove a little bit of your own contribution, you lost your entire supplement, everything, and also from the years before, if you couldn't prove it either. Then you walked in the eye once. That's very hard. That is knowingly incorporated into the law. Of course, you have to take the IRS as an executive seriously. They should have felt that human size. They should have pulled a bell somewhere earlier and said, "Boys, it's not good." By the way, they did that in 2012 and in 2014 we're about to get to that, but that wasn't going to happen at the time. If only they had called harder then, and we had all said, including politics, that it was time to do it differently. But it's in that all-or-nothing character. This has been the subject of case-law. The Council of State also initially said: "This is the interpretation of the law. There's nothing illegal about that. This is what the law is meant to do." Only later you will see the Council of State moving a little bit. On the question of whether you should look at a small difference, some sort of rounding difference, whether someone paid well all these years or paid just after a certain period, but did show good will to pay, they said at first that this cannot be done and later they said that this can be done. Later on, the Council of State decides on other elements. But all that is still on that same ship and has the same layer, namely that what is happening in it is basically in accordance with the law. That is the well-known tunnel vision that the service had, but which also had myself and perhaps also a little bit of politics in general about the surcharge system. This was about the fact that we might not want to see what the outcome could be for people. That we don't have enough antennas for that, says something. We're gonna have to change that bottom layer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u30	It is good that the Secretary of State indicates this, because this is in the width for how the surcharge system works. By way of derogation from the previous one, that was special as far as I am concerned, because they have always supported it, the Council of State said last time that there is room to act differently, to act more proportionately, because it turns out to be extremely acidic. I'm dealing with the CAF 11 case now. Specifically for the CAF 11 case, this was not the case. So I guess we shouldn't smear it by saying that in general that is unreasonable, because that's how we dealt with it. Now I'm talking specifically about the CAF 11, for which a lot of parents are here. Those parents met the requirements. My question is why this group has been dealt with in this way. Why were these objections removed and not addressed seriously? Why couldn't they find the pieces they supplied and the phone wasn't answered? What was specifically going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u31	Here, I think it's a combination of things, too. First of all, it is good to point out that not all CAF 11-parents have exactly the same experience. The CAF 11-parents are a whole group of parents who are affiliated to a certain host parent agency or to another host parent agency that is also affiliated to that host parent agency. In total, it is a group of 300 parents. Count says it's 302, I think. They've almost all waited far too long. The pace of objection was dramatic. This was not only the case in the CAF cases, but at that time it was the case in a lot of cases. There was just too little capacity and too little attention for what might be behind it. That's really that human size. You have to realize that if you don't give someone a chance to correct their objection, you're also taking away a right. That is an important legal element. That's one of the things we're doing. For some, their appeal or objection was found to be well founded rather quickly. In other cases, it went to the judge. The judge then said that there was something wrong with the display of his own payment or otherwise. The judge could then refer back to the state of law. That meant the parents weren't entitled to it. So it's not like all parents went through exactly the same mold with exactly the same outcome. Some parents have got it, some parents haven't got it and some parents haven't got it -- actually against way too many parents, we've never been told why they didn't get it. That is the case in the CAF 11 case. The point was that we thought for a very long time that this CAF 11 case was unique. Even at the time we came out of that tunnel and we found that a great deal went wrong, there was still a feeling that it was perhaps different in CAF 11 than in others. But I wasn't convinced of that anymore. That's exactly where I think we are right now. Aside from the fact that we have now rolled out a compensation scheme for these parents, I would like to say something about this. There will also be different groups for this. Not all parents have had the same treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u32	Could the Secretary of State reflect on his own actions? Again, I am not concerned with the breadth of the supplement system, I understand that, but I am specifically concerned with the group of parents at least in the CAF 11 cases, but perhaps in more cases, which were clearly said at some point: here the law is being broken. Now it took the secretary about a year and a half to see that, while the signals were there long before he arrived. How does the Secretary of State feel that he acted on that file?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u33	First the first and then the second. The first point: Mr Azarkan still seems to think that the service could stop or freeze it, but that was not possible at all; there was no freeze button in the system. I think the people who tried to do that were still pretty close to what they thought was their mission. Only that is not what this compensation and this discussion is about. It's really all those steps after, once you're suspicious and in that grid. So it's not just an unlawful act, the non-following of one's own laws so to speak, but it's about the whole process. That's what Donner calls institutional bias. So it's not possible for one or two people to do that, but it's the whole chain of treatments they've been getting. That's one. Two, the reflection on my own actions. I think I've talked about this extensively, but I'd be happy to do it again. I think it would have been a big deal if people had thought up these CAF 11 cases in 2012, 2013 and 2014 and perhaps also in 2015: hey, what's going on here is wrong. If at that time the human measure had been applied, if anything had happened in relation to proportionality, then a lot of the parents here would have been behind them with a completely different life. Maybe they wouldn't be here. That's important. For us and for me it was true in the first instance of course for the service, because everything I know comes from the service that until quite recently we thought that perhaps there were some special situations going on, but that if something was going on, the people in court could get them right. So we thought for a long time that we were doing the right thing. I talked to a part of the parents. Your Chamber, Mr Omtzigt, and later Mrs Leijten were also mentioned. If that had not happened, I might still have been in a tunnel somewhere and thought: annoying that it took so long in a few cases; but yes, we often get right from the judge, so somewhere there must be something wrong. You yourself mentioned that image. We've had a trial on it a long time ago. Then I also had the idea: it's not like there's nothing going on. Those fraud investigations around many of these CAF cases have come for a reason. There have also been a lot of convictions in CAF cases, because we know that millions and millions of people have been cheated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u34	...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u35	Don't be distracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u36	I won't be distracted, but I did. I was just in such a good flow. So we still thought there was something really going on at the time. Maybe the system will work out a little tight, but there must have been something wrong. I've thought that for a long time. At some point, I started to doubt CAF 11, because those signals kept coming. I thought, "That's weird." In March of this year I said that I wanted to know more about this. Then we started digging harder and taking a closer look. That's when we saw those assignments. And then there were reports in the media about possibly ethnic profiling. I said straight away that there can be no question of that, but that I wanted to get the bottom stone up and have it figured out. We're still working on that. During the period from May talks, in June a letter of inquiry and at the beginning of July a debate in the Chamber. I've done my best to set up a timeline for you, to tell you what happened. It can be seen that the timeline will be very busy from that moment on. From that moment on, we are not sitting on our lazy knees or eight months with closed envelopes at a desk, but we have worked very hard to get an insight into what has happened in order to have a careful assessment. If you ask me if I would have liked to have had that insight sooner, at some point in the beginning, after our conversation or with the Ombudsman: of course. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u37	I'd like to go back to November 15th anyway. Then it came out that there would certainly be about 9,000 cases where this also played out. In March, that was very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u39	Doesn't the Secretary of State think it's a coincidence that it comes exactly one day after 14 November, and then the Donner Committee's opinion report comes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u40	No, not at all. I believe that we have also discussed this in various debates in the Chamber. I said: I think it would be wise to try to get a picture of the group exactly what it is about. From March onwards, we started to investigate which cases could be covered. We have given the Donner Committee a role in this, first for CAF 11, but later for other things. We've asked our Audit Service to look into that. And we started digging ourselves. In between, we also had the auditors, who examined whether we had given all the procedural documents properly to the court. That also came up today, and that's what it started with for me as well. Do we do that properly? The Hearing Officers also examined whether all the documents relevant to that CAF 11 case were shared with the Chamber. It also showed that we occasionally found pieces which we then gave to your Chamber. Then I said at some point: I think it is important to come out with the information I have, and that it comes after we have a solution for those parents. About the information I had, that rather comprehensive letter of November 15th. But that solution for the parents is number one for me, and that's my top priority. That was possible following the Donner Committee. I couldn't do anything about that before. So on 15 November I fully accepted Donner's conclusions. He gives a pretty comprehensive description of it. I put my own reconstruction on that: how do I look at it? There was this. This included the fact that we had carried out research into how many potential there were. I do not know yet; perhaps we will find more cases, which are not CAF cases at all or which are not in a black book at all or go beyond the self-reports. It's possible; I don't know yet. Mrs Leijten often asked: why do you not know? If only the systems could report: well, here's a parent being hurt. Then we could have pulled all those files out of the closet right away to do something with it. But it wasn't that simple. So it wasn't a coincidence. No, it was meant to be. As soon as I had a solution for those parents, I wanted to give all that information, including all the associated WOB documents, to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u41	It is, of course, also about a chain of errors and institutional bias. I agree with the Secretary of State. At the same time, I think it is important to find out exactly where the Tax Administration has been unlawful, even if it is to know exactly what happened, in order to learn from it. We had that conversation with the Donner Committee. We had already talked about the illegal act of the Tax Administration before the summer. In the discussion with the Donner Committee, I heard for the first time: it should not have been stopped, it should at most have been suspended. When did the IRS know it was here on the system? Did the Secretary of State know it was the tax administration's ICT system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u42	I didn't know that particular case until recently. I can see when that was. I think that's one of those things, which is then described as "the soft stop." You can't "freeze" in the system. It explains: this is what you can do and what is as similar as possible. What went wrong there? I don't think that was even so much whether or not this was entirely consistent with the Awir. What went wrong is that then the judgment is maintained without knowing whether it is true that something was wrong. That's what Donner describes as sharp. So the hot iron isn't that they're doing anything but freezing because that button doesn't exist. If they had then done it neatly and had looked, also in response to those parents, to make up for that, that "freeze" would not have been the objection. Then that step wouldn't have been so bad at all. That's what Donner says: that's not what we're focusing on right now. The focus is precisely on the sequence of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u43	I understood that from the conversation with the Donner Committee. Then I see that the Tax Administration is indeed trying to fit in as closely as possible with what the law requires, even though ICT systems do not function according to the laws and regulations. But then there's the second illegal act. The Donner Committee has less attention to that, but I believe that this is something that the Tax Administration itself is responsible for, namely the exceeding of the time limits for objections. They have been greatly exceeded, in some cases very significantly exceeded. That is really shocking to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u44	I'm desperately looking for my magazine that contains all those legal terms, because that's not my homebase, so to speak. As for what is unlawful, I said earlier in the Chamber: if you do not comply with your own laws and regulations, it seems to me to be unlawful. A lot of people have sent me apps and e-mails that such an outcome is ultimately up to the judge to decide. In the end, it determines whether something is unlawful. For example, with regard to the non-compliance with our own deadlines for objection, unfortunately, this is all too often the case, and still is. We're a long way from being awake. I believe that the delays in objections at that time were tens of thousands. That's where we knew you'd end up exceeding your term. A good lawyer has told me that this is not illegal either, because the same law states that if you don't stick to that time, something else will come. If it takes too long, for example, you have that intangible compensation. So even that's not outside the law. The law already takes into account the fact that you sometimes need more than six weeks. It is not the case that if an official sees an objection period of six weeks and one day lying on his desk, he thinks: oh, if I touch it now, I will commit a tortious act and I will be prosecuted. That's not the way it is. That was followed by that law. Moreover, the fact that we were and are still lagging behind on objections is quite serious in itself. We have also paid attention to this in previous discussions on the Tax Administration itself. One of my priorities in this area is that we are also going to shorten it. For that, we just need more capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u45	It is, of course, very embarrassing that the question here should be asked when the Secretary of State actually knew. Because we've asked you so many times. The Secretary of State says I didn't know it until March and we didn't investigate it until March. Is it true that he did not ask for this, for example on 26 September 2018, during a conversation about the CAF 11 case: if there is an informal instruction somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mrs. Leijten needs to help me a little bit. I have no idea what I was doing on September 28th. What was that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u47	The Secretary of State finally helped with that, because on 15 November we got the solution of what the government was going to do with the Donner's advice. Then we also received a huge WOB request. Not just us, RTL and Faithful. Annex 2.1 and 2.2 contain a report of a discussion on 26 September 2018 on the CAF 11 case where the State Secretary was present. In that the Secretary of State asked: isn't there an informal instruction here somewhere? It wouldn't be. Then the Secretary of State says: what can we do to make this right? A number of decisions will then be taken, which we will see in a letter on 11 October. So the suggestion that the Secretary of State didn't understand the size until March just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u48	That is true, because Mrs Leijten is confusing two things. This conversation was about CAF 11. And I think this was about the question from the Chamber whether there is a work instruction indicating this or this. We didn't find it, and eventually we found this peer-reviewed hand-out, as we call it. That was not a formal work instruction, but it was certainly in the interests of that case. I gave it to him back then. That "correction" was about that intangible part of the €500. We just talked about that. So when Mrs Leijten asks if something went wrong there, and why it all took so long: we were still completely inside the CAF 11 world. That's where we talked about the compensation. I think we just talked about that. That was about the question of whether it would be 500 euros. I may have asked: is that all? I still think that is a good thing, but I am not a lawyer either. But that seems to be the maximum legal intangible fee. So that could be very good. I don't know if that was September 28th, but that was when we were talking about CAF 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr Nijboer's question was real: when did the Secretary of State understand that it was wrong in this case? This is a debate on CAF 11. The Secretary of State will reply: March. There are just, and that's for everyone to check out,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u50	Maybe I should get some clarity on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u51	Can I finish my sentence? Because the Secretary of State needs a lot of words to say that he really didn't know, but we just have here in black and white that he did. What I consider relevant to this is that in preparation for the discussion, prepared by officials, it is also reported that there are many more cases. There are 227 CAF cases. If that's what it was about in the conversation, I'll ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u52	I'm sure Mrs Leijten won't do it on purpose, but she's mixed up two things here all the time. When we talk about these CAF cases in September 2018, we also talk about how many parents are involved in these CAF cases. That's where the number of 227 comes from. When it comes to the question of whether I knew it was wrong, that's what you say with the knowledge we have today. Did I know then that it was as wrong as we know now? The answer is no. At that point in the CAF 11 case, we were still talking about why it's taking so long. We talked about this very specifically. So yes, we were talking about that part, but that's different than saying that we already knew what's going on here today. I hope it isn't, but it really seems like it's being mixed up a little consciously. 'Cause I really didn't leave any ambiguity about that, even before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u53	The report says that the Secretary of State says: what can we do to set things right? So he does feel like it's not right. Didn't he ask when it was about why those objections were broken? Did he really just look at those objection periods?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u54	I think that's when we talked about the CAF 11 case. At that time, we already had a comprehensive report from the Ombudsman. It wasn't like there was nothing at all. So we looked at what's actually going wrong here. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u55	How can the Secretary of State say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr President, I am going to finish my sentence one more time. I know it is difficult to destroy Mrs Leijten's impatience at all, but I am going to try to explain every time what we are doing. In September, the officials came to me and we talked about it. Again, I do not know exactly what is in every report. But it's not weird at all that at the time they looked at how that happened. What took you so long? Why is there so much attention to this particular issue? That's why we had that meeting. It was said at the time: if it takes too long, these people are entitled to intangible compensation. That was that $500, if I remember correctly, the maximum. I must have said: how can that be, why is this different, why does it take so long, can't we do it faster? But that has nothing to do with correcting the discussion we are discussing here today. I keep repeating that it is really important to continue to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u57	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u58	In that conversation on 26 September 2018, it was indeed about compensation and re-assessing of all those cases. The fact that things had not gone well there, and not only in the objection periods, simply changed there. Anyone can look it up, because these pieces are wobbled. The Secretary of State now says he didn't understand the size at the time, but he had to understand the size at the time. There were internal preparations. There was a tough Ombudsman's report, which said that it was not only disproportionate, but that it had not gone well either. There was talk at that time of re-evaluation of those dossiers. That's out of the question. It's made smaller. It's just about the objection deadlines. The Secretary of State says he didn't know that at the time, but he should've asked. Especially since Mr Omtzigt and Mr Azarkan had already been with him to say 'here we have a file; you have to solve that', he should have known then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u59	We are now 45 minutes away and it is starting to look like debates we have had before. The Secretary of State starts very emotionally and says that the government has been wrong, that we have to make it up to him, that we're going to do it, but we're going to do it slowly. Apologies and one more apology. We've heard that before. Maybe I'm shorthanded with the Secretary of State, but it's kind of like a rehearsal story. When you ask around, when you ask, "where is it?', You get a whole different story. Then all of a sudden the officials did a very good job and were aware of no evil and that it was actually the system, and most of all to the fact that there was no button in the system, but only a button "stop." But that is unbelievable, because in every organization where there is so much fuss for years, this bit comes out by itself. Because you have work meetings, people report there's a problem, people report what they do during the day. They report to their bosses, to their chiefs, that there are parents complaining. It's gonna come up. In the end, there are two possibilities. Or a few high-ranking officials in the organization have decided not to pass that information on. Then we have a problem, because then it's been kept under wraps for years. The Secretary of State must really ask whether a good leader, a good manager, would not have asked through, given all the reports that have come. If it takes three or four years, you're going to ask yourself at some point: "Guys, is something wrong? Explain some other things to the side and find out." If you had done that two years ago, we wouldn't be here right now. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u60	No, not at all. Not with the beginning and not with the end. You say this is like a play. I have tried to reflect on the question of several Members of Parliament to reflect on how things have gone. I did, and I didn't try to push away my own role. Again, it's not like I'm saying the IRS did everything perfectly. On the contrary, I think I have drawn a rather harsh conclusion, also on Donner's behalf. I have said that I believe that the boundaries of enforcement policy have been sought and sometimes exceeded. In a moment we come to the question of what all this means for the people who have been working on this. But it is important to point out that I do not distance myself from that. This was not about what the Tax Administration did right or wrong, but very specifically about when I knew what. What you accuse me of every time I hear it now and I actually hear Mrs Leijten say it is: you should have realised much earlier that things were going on. I just made it clear that I wish it had been. But it wasn't. At that time we were still very focused on CAF 11, on why things took so long and why there were so many lawsuits. We were actually not at all able to take that step back that we are taking now. Donner has helped me greatly, not only by giving some kind of guidance on how to compensate parents, which is on number one, two and three as far as I am concerned, but also by indicating what has gone wrong here. He came to that understanding that helped me enormously, namely: it is not that one action, that one early stop. After two months, it was back to the law. Then you were allowed to stop it. It is precisely that step after step after step that has been taken within the service. I'm not exonerating the service or the system at all. It's really a misconception to think I'm okay with this. I'm not okay with that. That is why we are here, and that is why I am working on a solution. I'm not okay with it. Only, the previous questions were about something else. Actually, the suggestion was that you didn't tell me something willingly and knowingly. That's not true, and I'm holding on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u61	It was a question. Either that information didn't come to you, or you didn't request it. The fact remains that in any organization... That's what you're telling me now. If something costs so much crumbs, if something so much attention is required, then you are talking about a lot of lawsuits; you are wondering why all these trials are there. Then you say you want to get rid of the bullshit, and then you order that you look at it consciously? I really don't understand. I want to believe you, and I want to go along with your story, but I don't get it. I've also worked in organizations. The first thing you get from your boss is: I want a report on that and I want to know why instead of doing your normal, real work, half the time you're reactive to that kind of thing. Why didn't that happen? I would like you to be able to tell me that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u62	So it has happened, when it comes to trying to figure out the lawsuits, when it comes to looking at how many cases it is. There was too late an all-out; I agree with you. It wasn't until we got out of the tunnel that all went out. That was not fast enough, because the seriousness of the situation was not recognised at the time. But I find it really hard to believe that we have done nothing since the debate we had in July. Once again, I would like to refer you to the timeline I have given you on this, because then you can see that a lot has happened since then. And we're not there yet. Let's face it, we're not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u63	I will come back, Mr President, because I would like to know how that works. I really don't get it. I have such an evaluation report here. I've got some; I've just turned out a few. The first one is about CAF 11. For the period somewhere between July 2014 and December 2014, you can see 3.5 million and 78% stoppages. I'll have a couple of them after. They are also about the years 2014 and 2015. I can't see what CAF business that is. That was taken away with Tipp-Ex, of course, and rightly so. There you see things of almost 1 million, of two decimal places some million, but you also see stops, I say. Then what happens to those kind of evaluation reports? Surely there must be people within the Tax Office or the Ministry who knew all this and who gave it to you for the debate last March? You said to us then: it will be about that in those CAF 11 cases, that 300. I think that information was there. Then how come that doesn't come through?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u64	I think that the evaluation report you have in your hand is not a formal evaluation report from the service. For example, the 75 pieces that I sent to the Chamber were documents that, for example, never reached the MT Fraud or the MT Fees, let alone the general director or the dg, and certainly not the political leadership. So unfortunately this has never become a kind of collective memory as such, such as: this has gone wrong. To the question why that did not happen I might ask myself: I do not know. I don't think it's because those people, for example, when they insist that a lot of cases have stopped... It may also be true that in all these cases it appears that the cessation has been justified. I hardly think it's an evaluation report. That's what I gave to the Chamber. When you read that, you see that there are always two A4s per story. There are some cases on the left and right, including accidents. When I ask them whether they are all correct, we do not know the answer. Were they all on one disc? No. It was held back individually. So this information never reached the official summit, and neither did I.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u65	I think there is a real problem there. You'll get confidential reports. I'm from an official service myself. I know very well that things really aren't all going the way they should be or how you'd like them to be. But if such reports are made and if they don't get through in the line, then there's some sort of "I'm saying it's very flat, rotten system." Doesn't the Secretary of State agree? I really can't understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u66	I wouldn't use the word "dirty system." In the meantime, Mr. Chairman, I've only lifted my cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, 'cause they don't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u68	On the left and right, I'm trying to get the answers together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u69	That's important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u70	I did my best. However, it might be good for the momentum of the debate to discuss all these points now. We do, of course, have a lot to say about culture. To the question why, for example, this does not rise in the line sooner, or why not someone who adds things up and then says "hey, is this weird?" Or "is this similar?', We can find anything. I think that's kind of weird. I agree. If this was validated information, if it could hold onto finding a solution, I'd expect it to come off somewhere. That's not gonna happen. This is one of the points that should be changed at the service, when it comes to adapting culture. I hope I can think about it a little bit longer. These things need to rise faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u71	This is basically the base. These are the investigations of Trouw and RTL, which state that the Secretary of State misled the Chamber. The Secretary of State says this isn't the case. These are the basic reports. I've read them all, too. Look at number 42. That's not CAF case 42, but our classified number is 42. That's been investigated. It says: Six out of nine citizens have been granted the childcare allowance and it can be concluded that there is no facilitator of unlawful surcharges. Then you look at case 29, no, at case 62. Yeah, it's a whole bunch of paper. It states that, on the basis of the investigation, it can be established that actual reception has taken place and that the supplement has been lawfully obtained. Thus, the GOB is not a facilitator of unlawful surcharges. These 75 cases are repeated over and over again. Things have been stopped over and over again. There are 75 of them, but there are 170 of them in total. Eindhoven is one of them. So it's recorded over and over again. These aren't reports from this year. They've been made before. They've been in that safe for a long time. The anti-fraud investigation is taking place on such a large scale. This has been unjustly stopped and people have gotten into trouble. How come this didn't seem to reach the administration, and neither did you? How did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u72	How did something happen? That's a complicated question if you haven't had it. At the time when they were investigating the CAF cases, I had loved... The service was in a tunnel for a long time. Then people didn't think anything was going wrong. There were suspicions of fraud. They'll be watched. There will then be a pre-weighing moment: are we going to continue looking for fraud or not? Sometimes people leave it at that, because people think: it can also be all sloppy. Sometimes people say: here is really something going on; we go on. CAF is not the same as surcharges. In the CAF cases, people were asked: can we investigate whether a facilitator is working here? Sometimes it turns out that there is indeed a facilitator at work, which involves a lot of fraud. Sometimes it remains unclear and it is decided not to do so, while there are still a lot of irregularities. They may also have consequences for the surcharges. So it might as well be like this. There was a suspected fraud. There was an investigation into what happened. It was decided that there was no official facilitator role, but that things had indeed gone wrong when applying for the surcharges. Some parents still do not receive their allowance, despite the fact that there was no fraud at all. Then they don't just get a little bit, no, they don't get everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u73	Of course, the point of the Chamber is not that criminal matters are being dealt with. The point of the Chamber is that all those parents who were members of organizations that the Tax Administration had in mind as potential fraudsters have suffered. They didn't just get hurt. Their supplement has been cancelled. But the tax authorities have also acted illegally, contrary to the law. Those parents haven't been able to live up to their rights. That's what destroyed them. That's the point of the Chamber. I don't understand why this has lasted so long without intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u74	I don't want to repeat myself. I think I've explained four times why. You want to sit very hard on that illegal part. Again, it's worse than that. It's worse than that. If two people had done something illegal, we could have done it and it would have been over. I wish. Then you run away from the real problems that exist, namely that in the system of surcharges these kinds of things are embedded. As a performer, we have a role to play in this. So the problem is not solved if only two people have done something wrong in the end. It really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u75	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u76	We don't understand each other. I do not point out any officials who do anything unlawful. I point out the policy decision that has been taken: we accept that the good suffers from the evil, even if it is against the law. This is explicitly stated on pages 15 and 16 in your letter to the Chamber, as guidance for the Donner Committee. That decision has been made explicitly. We're locking up 100% in prison, while 20% is innocent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u77	I think I have already tried to explain this point once or twice. You don't, by definition, lock up 20%. You're holding on 100%. Of 80% it was right and 20% it was not. Only, these people must have a chance to prove their innocence. That's the point. So that's not the arrest. It's annoying, but sometimes it's justified. It's about the fact that people had so little chance of escape after that. That is precisely because of the point that has already been mentioned in the Chamber, namely because of the kafka-like situation that even if you had done well but had not been paid all year round, it was taken away. That's really weird. We really need to change that. You can't do that anymore. That's one of the assignments, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u78	I hear the Secretary of State say a few times that there was disproportion, that there was bias, that there was an all-or-nothing character and of the human measure that was missing. How is it possible that so many people with a certain ethnic background have been selected? Has that been an analysis system of the Tax Administration or have it been individual tax inspectors who picked these people out manually?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u79	Here's the suggestion that there's ethnic profile. I would like to say that ethnic profiling cannot, must not, and we will always fight against it. With the financial spokesmen, we have already thought about this for a long time. I have no reason to think it happened. At least it didn't happen on system. The selection was not on the parents but at a host parents' office or another child care facilitator. That's what the selection is about and that's what people are all for. In the CAF 11 case, it's absolutely true. When you look at the composition you see a very diverse company. That wasn't selected by names or nationality, but it is there. I think we are also going to find CAF cases which show that there is also a lot wrong and 85% of them have a purely Dutch nationality. I think the assumption that was a little bit in your question is not correct. We have asked the Dutch Data Protection Authority to find out very well for us. If, for example, there has been a risk selection based on nationality, then we should also see if that was possible. There's a whole story to it. We used to get the first and second nationality delivered automatically. I'm glad we don't get that anymore. At some point, we said you couldn't use that second nationality anyway. So we don't use them anymore, not even as risk selection. In fact, we even made the promise, which I have to be done with at the end of the year, to clean up even the data from the past in which second nationality was still used. But having the nationality, the Dutch or European nationality, is a fact, namely whether or not you are entitled to a supplement. It's gonna stay in there. But if we use that in the wrong way, so a little in the way you suggest what happened again, I think you're jumping ahead a little too fast, then that would be terrible and we would act hard. To ensure this, I asked the Dutch Data Protection Authority to look specifically at the use of nationality. In the meantime, the Ombudsman is examining the use of nationalities and ethnic profiling for the whole of the Empire. So it's an important point. It is also a good thing that you ask, but it is a part of which we have been thinking in detail before to indicate what I thought about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u80	The reason I am asking is that there has been such a harsh and hard reaction to these people that, even if I may believe in the goodness of the people in the Tax Office, I do not believe that people have done this manually. On 29 May this year, the NOS vowed that many public authorities use an algorithm and that public authorities are not always open about it. They put facts and questions from the past into an algorithm where there are certain things where there is already a certain bias without you being the tax inspector. So is it true that individual tax inspectors have done this manually or is there an algorithm on the basis of which these people have been selected?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u81	I was just trying to explain that, but I'll do it again. These people haven't been selected. What was selected for? On signals surrounding a hostage office. You could be a member of that group as a parent of yours. But the fraud as such has nothing to do with those parents, but with that facilitator. That's one. Two. Nationality is required when granting the contract. If you do not have a Dutch or European nationality, you must have a residence permit. That's the question you get in the questionnaire. I don't think anyone's freaked out either, because that's just the law, so that's what we have to do. It's about whether, for example, you can use an algorithm for risk selection in general. In the past, nationalisation has also been considered in the case of supervision, e.g. monitoring of fees and the like. For it is not illogical at all to assume that if you are here temporarily, for example, the rules are more complicated for you than for someone who has year in, year out of the same life. In addition, it will often go well. It is about people, such as temporary students, in other situations. Does anyone, for example, have a mortgage interest deduction? Those are complicated questions. That was used in the past, and that is what we talked about with the Chamber to look at what we needed to check more. In the meantime, the power of expression of nationality was already gone. So nationality didn't come out of that algorithm anymore as something that could be important for risk selection. Again, I say all this because this question is coming, but this is completely separate from this case where we are talking about risk selection/CAF. This is about monitoring and maintaining the policies we have when it comes to the use of nationalities. So yes, in the past that was something that was looked at. That's not the case anymore. So we just don't do it anymore, I say for all the clarity. But it also had no added value. There was no higher risk at the time you had a different nationality than Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u82	It's horrible that that was human work. It is true that the NOS has been obsessed that the Tax Office detects fraud using algorithms. I'm glad the Secretary of State says we're not doing that anymore. Is that really true? And does the Secretary of State agree with me that the danger is not that robots take over the world, but that the great danger lies in misapplication of artificial intelligence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u83	It's not like the Tax Administration doesn't use algorithms to find out where risks are in Fees or anywhere else in the Tax Administration. This was about the use of nationality. It's not like I'm saying, no, the IRS doesn't have any algorithms. They're still there. By the way, an algorithm is never the final phase. When you're an inspector, you see all kinds of risks. Such a system helps the inspector. If someone has a very low income but a very high deduction for other things, the system says: hey, that's weird, can you? That certainly helps if that happens more often. That's what they can look at. Then the inspector only gets to see that there was a risk, and then he has to see for himself if he sees a risk. In fact, if I remember correctly, but I will say it in the second term if I haven't remembered correctly, he won't even see on which issue that risk was reported. He only gets to see: this is a risk report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u84	Let's see. Mr Omtzigt was already at the interrupting microphone, but I do not know whether Mr Azarkan would like to ask a question on this point. Otherwise I will go to Mr Omtzigt, because it was there earlier. I'm going to see Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u85	I have two questions. The first question concerns March of this year. I found the list of CAF projects somewhere. I can't say exactly where, so I'm asking: please give me the evaluations of CAF 1 Heidekoe, CAF 2 Caledonia, CAF 3 Tonaga, CAF 4 Stretch, CAF 5 Julius, CAF 6 Rongdrik, CAF 7 Beilen, CAF 8 Namdrik, CAF 9 Namu someone there loves that desk of geography. In the answer to that, it says: "In some cases, cases have even been closed with a criminal conviction." In other words, most cases have not led to any conviction at all. I'm still not getting those evaluations. Is there someone at the time who thinks: let's look at these evaluations to see if that makes sense? Or is it useful that I have to ask four more times before I can finally get them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u86	I think Mr Omtzigt assumes that it would have been more pleasant if he had received it at once rather than insisting on it for a long time. I indicated, at least in the November letter, why I thought it wiser to bring that out when we knew how we wanted to deal with this matter. I still think that's a wise choice. I shall go all the way back to the beginning of the debate. We have CAF 11-parents; we're talking about that today. I hope to be able to say something about compensation in the near future, because it is important that we do so here today. In addition, there are other parents who may have been treated in the same way. We've been working on that for a long time. If we bring out a lot of individual files, it's all the time: what about that gentleman or lady in that case? That's right, because those are good questions, but you're gonna lose all your time trying to figure out exactly what that's like. I thought it was important to say, but what are we going to do about it? I see Mrs Leijten jumping up to ask: but what are you going to do about it? And she would be right in that; I would find that a very good question. But when I say we do it in a particular case, sister or something, I don't know if there have been any more cases. I have also said that I will give you all the information you need. Anyway, we'll end up in a discussion that we've had before. You can really ask me what it says and what that means for policy. I would have told you all that. It was now very specific about those documents themselves. Quite apart from the fact that these are documents that have never been established, and apart from the fact that you may wonder if, when you read them, you get a lot of guidance through them, we have decided that just entering into the discussion would be more sensible than just looking at documents, documents, documents. I could perhaps enrich it even for Mr Omtzigt with my weighting, with my explanation, with a solution. I think that might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u87	That's right. That happened later. But in March, I didn't get the answer: I'm going to find out for you. I could have understood that. No, I got the answer: I have no external signals that something is going on. I also asked the question: were his parents in other CAF projects kept on the same leash as in the CAF 11 project? That wasn't figured out either. After I, as a Member of Parliament, had used my constitutional right to request information, it was still a few months before that information was analysed. How am I supposed to explain that? Is it gonna happen to me again that I have to ask for the same information night after night? Because believe me, it took me quite a while to get the names of those ten CAF projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u88	I believe that. As you know by now, it has often taken me quite a long time in this whole case to get all the pieces referred to or referred to, so the good versions, the final versions. We have talked a lot about the provision of information. You're talking about March. At that time we were still firmly convinced that it was mainly CAF 11 cases and therefore a limited group of parents in those CAF 11 cases. At that time, there was discussion about signals. We didn't have one. I have been to the National Ombudsman to say: I continue to hear this; do we have any signs that the same thing is happening here, so the unjustly stopping etcetera, etc.? The answer was no. Yes, there have been cases of discontinuation, but that was always within the idea that what we are doing is right: that it is right and according to the law. It's just that we have what we have. I didn't have all the information we have right now. Suppose it would be March now, we would have a debate now and you would ask me the same question. Then I would have, knowing that there are probably a lot of similar cases between the other CAF cases, that answer I would have given immediately, because then it would have added value. But we didn't think so at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u89	That's exactly the question. I do not think I need to wait as an MP until the government finds that there is a problem in that file, if I think there is an independent reason to request information; and I am not asking for the whole document. Let me just say that I am rather shocked by this for the following reason. Those parents haven't called the Tax Phone once and not twice, no, in all 9,000 cases, people have constantly and continuously called the Tax Phone, sent in pieces and if those pieces weren't found, sent in pieces again. Stuff was impounded. We've requested a hearing. There's been a lot of things going on with it. That information must have been known within the IRS. One must have known that there was a large group of parents who couldn't get through. How come you have to go to the Ombudsman, not somewhere in the Tax Office? How come you think there's no signal, so we don't have to figure it out? What does that say about the Tax Office and how do we ensure that next time, if we think there's something going on somewhere that isn't entirely correct, it'll be picked out immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u90	I'm gonna try to explain things again, which I don't want to say has gone well there. I will say that again and again, of course that did not go well. That's why we're here. So that's one, two and three of my answer. The fourth point of my answer is: we get millions of phone calls a year. If some parents, even if there are 300, call a tax phone about their surcharges, then there's not some kind of system that says: hey, that's funny; we get a lot of phone calls like that. The collection CAF 11, so to speak, is not known to anyone else except us now, because we have it as a research group. But it's not like those parents, for example, knew they were CAF 1, 2, 3 or 5. So they couldn't call with the announcement: hello, dear Tax Phone; we are CAF 11-parents. For example, if you could have seen it, you could have noticed: hey, that's funny; we get a lot of phone calls like that. There are some sort of phone records, but that is quite roughly aggregated. That is not possible at all at this level. You do say, "What a ridiculous thing to say." But I'm afraid that because of the scale and the massity of the process, we don't receive that kind of signals. I agree with you that if you ask for certain information, it is not up to me to decide whether or not you should find that information useful. I couldn't agree more. Only, it was about the question: do you have those signals? The answer to that was "no." Since you asked me about it, among other things, I went to ask you again. Then I asked: do we have any other signals? That is why it was not strange that I asked, for example, the Ombudsman, who, in my opinion, put this CAF 11 case in a very good and sharp light: 'Dear Ombudsman, what is the situation?' You guys getting more calls from other people on a CAF 11 case? His answer was: no, I don't have those signals. And those are the external signals we talked about in March. I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u91	I see that as a promise that the next time we ask for pieces, because we think they are relevant, we will get them, that we will at least get a description of them, so that we know what is going on. I still have a very factual question. The Donner Committee finds that Article 23 of the Awir has been violated. The surcharges were not suspended but they were stopped. This has serious consequences, because if you suspend, you can pay them later. If they're stopped, you're gonna have to re-apply them. Then maybe you'll join us on the closing lists later. You won't be able to get in. That is a fundamental difference. Even though it doesn't seem like a big difference in Dutch, it's a huge legal difference, because you can't fix it easily. But in the answers, the Secretary of State also states that the General Administrative Law Act and the Childcare Act have been violated. I would like to hear from all three of them how long they lasted, when they started and how many people had to deal with it. I also want to know exactly what matters are at the Awb. It is true that if one citizen turns seven instead of six weeks, there will be no infringement. But when a very large group, a defined group, has to wait two years, it is an overrun and it does not comply with the law. So how long have these violations existed and how many people have been affected by each of these three violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u92	You'll understand that I can't answer that from the loose wrist right now. It is important, I think, to acknowledge that it is often the combination of the three where it went wrong. That is, I think, also what we are doing here today. It is exactly as Mr Omtzigt points out. It's not like if you're a week late at Awb, there's gonna be a report. We keep lists of how many times we're late. It states how long the transit procedure lasts in the event of objections. We've got those lists. Mr Omtzigt asks when the Awir or the Childcare Act has been broken. It's often a combination of both. This also applies: we do not keep track of the counting system. There's not a button somewhere that you can indicate: now it's broken and fixed. But I think that the point made by Mr Omtzigt is as follows. It's really about: if you think you're making so many mistakes in the total... Mr. Chairman. Maybe I shouldn't fill it out before Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u93	Maybe you'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u94	I would indeed appreciate that. It is indeed the combination that put these parents in superclamp. First stop and then do not determine for a year and a half whether that cessation was justified. Well, there is no parent who can advance a child care allowance for one and a half years, while three weeks without a child care allowance with all the balls in the air may still be done. Those deadlines are also laid down in the law. If a law is not observed in the Tax Administration on an occasional basis, but in structural terms for a group, I think it is important that a call be made somewhere. Otherwise we will not have to make any laws here. We make laws in the Lower House with a term of six weeks, because we think that this is reasonable for the Tax Administration, but also for the citizen, so that they have a decision and can move on. I would like to have an answer to all three points in the second term. The Secretary of State calls these three laws. I would also like to know what article of the law is involved. The Awb may be both the time limit and Article 8.42, on whether all documents are inserted into ongoing proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u95	I'll see what I can do for the second term. I don't know if we have all these numbers ready, like I just said. The most important thing in this case and in the cases we are going to talk about is, however, that even if there had been action within the Awir, within the KOT and within the Awb, the outcome for many parents would still have been the same. I can't repeat that enough. Even if we had all done so, I would have been standing here with a proposal for a compensation scheme. In the debate we had in July, I said what I found very clearly the end of my tunnel vision. That was actually the moment I thought: even if we did it all right, exactly according to the laws and rules, then I find the outcome for these parents very often wrong. I would like to do something about that, and that is perhaps the most important observation. So yes, I will try to look this up technically, but I keep saying: the most important question is not really in that answer, but in the fact that we have to help the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u96	It just came to mind in March of this year. We have of course had the AO of 4 July, in which the Secretary of State indicated: I come from that tunnel. I have one more question about that. I sincerely wonder what the Secretary of State has done with the opinion of the National Ombudsman. I am asking because the National Ombudsman says in August 2017: Fees have already ended the childcare allowance in advance, before it had requested and assessed the evidence and data of those concerned. In any case, if they had provided it, but did need additional documents, no increase in the number of people involved has given them a second chance or information. Then the conclusion is that this approach has put long-term parents in an impossible position and in major financial difficulties. Increases will evaluate and adapt his working methods in such situations. It is also concluded that an average of 18 months was done on compliance with the General Administrative Law Act, namely the settlement of the objection. What did you do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u97	If it's okay, you know what I did with it. As a result, I have written a rather long and extensive letter to the Chamber. Then I think I apologized and we had a discussion: who was it all? Mr Azarkan also had a number of questions at the time. But that was still from the point of view: it has been a very long time. So that earlier discussion we had about what compensation we wanted and what we wanted to correct had to do with the question: why did it all happen? But it was not yet at the point where we are now after we got out of that tunnel, namely that we think that things have gone wrong massively here. That's really important. So there is an extensive letter and I would like to invite Mr Azarkan to read that letter again. In this we respond to a lot of these points. Of course, it is true that we have already said that the letter would have looked different if I had to write it today, with the knowledge we have now. That's the part that I described to myself and at the service as that tunnel vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u98	This is the essence for me. For me, this determines whether I trust that this Secretary of State can continue to carry out this important task in the future. Why? We are not dealing here with the average official or Dutchman. No, we're dealing with a secretary of state who's responsible. And he's reading this. He knows: this is what his officials do. His officials are getting people in trouble. It takes his officials 18 months in this case, and I'm not talking about any other business to comply with the laws, rather than six weeks. The people involved are in big trouble, and then the Secretary of State says: I have written a letter to the Chamber. You have, I say to the Secretary of State, simply done nothing with it! These people, sitting here in the public gallery, stayed in that hell all these years. You haven't thought at any time: yes, but when I read this now, something serious is going on here, which is what I would think, but I don't have that responsibility. I'm going to judge that group of parents, because there's something weird going on here; I'm going to do something with that. No, we received a letter, in which the Secretary of State said through the Director-General: yes, but the Tax Office had done well, because half of these people are guilty! Yeah, that's what it said. I said, "No, these people have withdrawn." That doesn't prove that the tax authorities were right. No, those people were scared off by those blue envelopes, by that mighty service. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State one more time. This was known to the Secretary of State, I assume sometime in the first month after his arrival. Let's say in December 2017, January 2018. What did he do with these signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr. Chairman. It could be some kind of word game, of: the only thing he's done is write a letter and then it's finished. Mr Azarkan knows that was not the case. When it comes to what I said, it also includes telling you how I reacted to your Chamber. It was also the first time that we were going to show that we felt that a lot of things were not going well. I would like to repeat that here again. It'll be covered in my cubes, too. This concerns, for example, how these objections and appeals are now being dealt with. Are you sure you're okay? One of the things we noticed at the time was that there are a number of things that we have to prevent from happening again. I think they're in that letter, even though I don't have them all in my head anymore. For example, we found it sounds a bit technical, but that's not what it is: there is no technical point of contact. That means in the language of normal people: I come across something, I think: eh, that's special or I think something of it, and I'm going to go near a committee or club in my organization where people know about it, where people often encounter these kinds of complicated things and can help me to go further. He wasn't there at Supplements! That is one of the things that is not true with regard to culture. It's not like we sat on our lazy ass then, but it's not like... Again, I can only say that it would have been wonderful if I had been able to react with the glasses of today, because we would have been able to do something sooner. It's not like we didn't do anything. We thought we were doing exactly what we were doing and setting up what was necessary to prevent this. But we also thought it was an isolated group of parents. We don't think so anymore. So you can say, if you do know what you know now, why didn't you do it differently? You will understand that it is difficult to answer that. We then continued to do so to the best of our consciences and in retrospect it would have been nice if we had gone further already at that time. I'll give that to Mr. Azarkan right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u100	Finally, Mr President. Then let's be specific. The report No powerplay but fair play of August 2017, the investigation of the National Ombudsman, is very specific about the group of people. That's what the paper made back then. There are colleagues who have done a great deal of work on this. That was just before my time or just after my arrival. What did you... What's the matter... Let's just say the Secretary of State has taken action. I don't want to break him. I don't want to be euphemistic about it, so forgive me when I say he wrote that letter. What did the duped parent notice of the Secretary of State's actions from the moment the Secretary of State knew? From when did the situation change and life, so to speak, became more bearable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u101	We have only really changed things for those individual parents, even those who are here today, when we decided that the way we had done that was wrong. That was not the case at the time. Then we still thought that we were working on a system that had not worked properly and where too few checks-and-balances were built in. We thought that there was no technical knowledge, that there was too rapid action and that the objections had not been considered sufficiently. Those were all things that were wrong and had to be different and better. But we didn't realize that even if we had done it all right, it still wouldn't have worked out well for those parents. Neither did the National Ombudsman. Nor did it appear from the case law. It's not like everyone thought that at the time, except us. Yeah, those parents thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u102	The Ombudsman found that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u103	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mrs Leijten, you may ask one question, because I think a lot of parents also want to know where they stand. I'm just saying that to the people there. I'm also afraid people are gonna leave because it's taking too long. I have plenty of time, not of that, but I'd like them to hear something that hopefully reassures them a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u105	Sure, and I think this can also contribute to that. During this debate, reports from management teams were tweeted by one of the journalists who does a lot with them. It states that there is a list of CAF cases and that there is also a list of poignant cases outside the CAF. I ask the Secretary of State to send this information to the Chamber, of course, not to use personal data to get an impression of exactly what they are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u106	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u107	During the debate, I concentrated on things other than Twitter. So if anything's been tweeted there, we'll respond to that. I can't say much more about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u108	Do I understand that the information will come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u109	Exactly! It states that a list of the CAF cases has been made available to the Donner and ADR Committees. I want that list, too. A list of distressing cases outside the CAF is also mentioned. I'd like some information on that, too. I don't want names, I don't want addresses, I don't want to ask any of that, but I want to know what we're up to. How many people are we talking about, exactly? What analysis is being made there? Then we can check it out. They're here, it's in those reports, so I just want them so we can study them for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u110	Again, I can't respond to a Twitter message right now, because I don't know exactly what it says. I assume that Mrs Leijten has read that almost literally. We will look at what lists they are. If I have them, I will respond to them in the second term. But first, I need to see what it is. I hope everyone understands that this is a logical reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u111	Yeah, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u112	Then I want to start with my cubes, because inside those cubes were some very specific...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u113	I thought you gave it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u114	I am afraid that some Members have asked specific questions, so let me see if I can walk past them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u115	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u116	Let me start with the compensation scheme. I think that's the most important thing. You're already, I think, making a reference to the parents. Mrs Lodders, for example, had a question about this. She asked: do you think this compensation scheme is generous? Mr Azarkan called it generous. In any case, let me say that I have fully taken over this compensation scheme from the recommendation of the Advisory Committee. Later I added a supplement to the tax side, so that you don't suffer from it in box 1, box 3 or possibly with your benefit. So that's another addition to Donner. I think the consultative committee meant to say that I accepted that of hers that in this way we are trying to establish a balanced, generous and targeted regime that applies to all these parents. That was exactly what we needed to be able to make payment as soon as possible. It is also important to point out once again that at that time there was no law to do so. You don't give back the right, but you compensate parents for what happened to them. We want to make a policy decision for that. It will be published very soon. That policy decision has also been incorporated into the draft into the Chamber. It can only be that the policy decision will be followed by legislation rather quickly. There were some questions about that. I think this is important, because legislation ultimately is what gives it body. But we do not want to wait for that, because legislation has to go through both chambers. We just want to get there as soon as possible. That is why we immediately adopted this policy decision. I think it is also important to point out that this compensation scheme can work out well for many parents. The higher the amount of money you have not received, the greater the compensation, because it is a percentage of that. I thought that was a good way to take account of the fact that not everyone has been harmed by the same suffering. Mrs Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and others are right to ask whether this compensation is being taken up quickly and carefully enough. In any case, I will bring forward the policy decision as soon as possible, and I want to give a little more insight into what that means before the end of the year, even if you look at the opinion of the Council of State. I also think that Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Snels and others have asked me to say that some parents say: I do not think it is generous enough or generous enough. It's possible. There will be people who say: look what happened in 2015. Or, in another case, that it is not appropriate for them. We have, of course, thought about this before. Therefore, it was also difficult to make a kind of general arrangement, because it cannot at once meet a kind of customization approach that is important. This tailor-made treatment can eventually be given by going back to court. So in the end, through a committee of wise men or an independent committee, if you really want more than that, then you can also call in nicely. Then there's another case where you can say, "Dear Judge, I'm really entitled to more." We think that's important. A few times it has been said that we need to avoid getting back together at the time. I really don't want to. In a way, I would like a judge to be able to give a judgment if people think that that regulation is really not applicable to them. It's very complicated for me. I can do a lot less customization than a judge can. Can I use it if someone hasn't applied for it for all kinds of good reasons and has actually suffered damage from it? If I give that to parent one, I will have to do it eventually, because that is how the legislation is going to be able to give it to everyone. Everyone will say: I might have wanted to apply for that too. We have to try to do this, and I would like to undertake to set up a process to do so, which mainly means that we help parents to take that step. Again, we still have to come up with a good design for that, but we may be setting up some kind of guidance for them. A lot of parents wouldn't have had a lawsuit like this before or hadn't been escorted before. The point is that we really help and guide them: this is how you can do it and these are the things you need. I think Mr Snels' question was whether I could come up with a proposal. I would like to do that, and I want to do it quickly, so that everyone, including the first group of parents to be eligible, can make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u117	Is this the end of the subject of compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u118	No, there will be a number of other questions. But I see so many people standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u119	So do I, but I thought you might have more to say at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u120	Then let me answer the questions that are still here. I have to mention Mr Azarkan and Mrs Leijten on the same subject. They mentioned the provision of assistance to parents. I think that's important. For example, instead of our average inspectors, they don't like me saying that, people with mediation skills, so people who have really studied for that, are going to use them to guide those parents in a pleasant way. We will not be able to take over from them, because in the end they must try to explain why their case is different from that compensation scheme. However, it is important that this guidance does not take place in the case itself, but in particular in: how can we do all this best? That's what I'm saying. I think Mr Omtzigt had asked about parents who received allowances in later years and who actually happened the same in 2015. That's right. In the section opinion, Donner will mainly be sitting on the specific group of parents between 2012 and 2014, but I have already said that, if exactly the same cases were to occur in 2015, I do not see why we should not give them the same treatment. We're definitely looking at that. The ADR is also looking wider. This was CAF 11 2012 to 2014, but in a moment the search is also wider: a broader group of parents, but perhaps also a wider number of years. So I will certainly come back to this, with the starting point as I just described it. I think we should start applying the same action there. But I will come back to that after the ADR has shown us this comparability. Mrs Lodders and Mr Omtzigt also asked... No, this is about the big sequel damage. That's actually the same thing. So it can either not have been properly assessed over the years themselves, or there may be subsequent damage in the years after that. That's the same thing. The judge is, in my opinion, the right person to prevent arbitrariness. Everyone has a right to be customised, and we need to go along with it. What am I gonna do with signals reaching me on other matters outside CAF 11? That could be other CAF cases. Mrs Leijten asked for it, and later other members asked for it. But it could also be parents who have come up in the black book. We have now also ensured that there is a hotline. The so-called "self-detectors" call us and say: I have a question about this. If they call the Tax Phone, they can report on that right away. If they think that they have been affected in this way, they can leave their bsn number and their objection. I hope that goes well. And if there are any parents who say that's not going well, let me know. Then just let us know, because we just want everyone to get that other treatment right now. There has been talk of the exact comparability of a number of things. At the request of the Chamber, we asked the ADR to show this comparability. That's not a political curve ball to hide behind. When we were working on this, the question of legality was still very much a matter of comparability. I think it has actually become wider by now, because it is now about this bias. And also for parents who, for example, have suffered from this set-up/great debt, we have stopped the coercion. They can come in, too. Then we can see if they've had the same problem. How long do the parents have to wait for compensation? This group of parents actually falls into part 1 of the Donner report. From the other group hopefully as many parents as possible we have in the picture in group 2 and under Donner 2. But it may of course be that there are still parents who think that they belong to them and that we do not yet have a picture of them. That is why we continue to call on people, through various points, to make that clear. It's not like we're trying to hold off on that. But we cannot say that we already know who they are. Some parents will not be dealt with through intent/greater guilt, a CAF case or any other case, even though they may have experienced the same thing. They have to come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u121	"Where?" There is a call from the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u122	Well, for example, at the Tax Phone. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u123	Am I being laughed at? And there's applause. Looks like I'm joking around here after all. Well, good. Let me say that I take this signal back to the people who are responsible for it. We've put down really extensive scripts. People who call get a number and can report it. If this doesn't happen properly somehow, then we have to do something about it. That's very important. People can, of course, report to the hotline. They already have. Well, I guess I'll have to come back to this in a minute, see where this apparently came from. Mr President, I shall continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u124	Well, unless? Good. No, Mrs. Leijten, I know what you're going to say. I'm going to see Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u125	I welcome the answer from the Secretary of State. I actually hear him say very emphatically that there is a compensation scheme and that there is also the possibility of a court-ordered course. I think that distinction is very important. This compensation scheme should be a first step towards parents. But that second step must really be possible. I actually have two questions about that. The first concerns the compensation scheme. I hear about people's concerns, especially about the legal assistance section. As far as I understand, it's a lump sum, a lump sum. We all know that these parents have been suffering from legal assistance for years. Does the flat-rate amount take sufficient account of this? That question may now be answered, but it may also be answered in the second term. I am pleased with the reply of the Secretary of State on the mentoring of people towards that second step, if they want to make that move when they have suffered more damage. I have heard the Secretary of State say it, but I also think that the signal 'I'm not going to talk to the gallery' is very important: it must be easy to reach the service. I sincerely hope there's a very low threshold to report if you want assistance or if you have any questions about this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u126	I'll answer straight away and if I'm wrong, I'll come back to that in the second term. That compensation scheme indeed includes a flat-rate amount for legal costs. But in my opinion, there is also the possibility of being eligible if there is evidence of higher costs. So I think that possibility is already in there. I'll check later to see if that's true, but I think that was the intention. Not everyone gets that, because some people haven't incurred any costs for that, but if you've shown more costs for legal assistance, we can look at that. I shall come back to that in the second term. That's one. The other thing is that the signal has become clear to me as well. I have some work to do there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u127	Sure. We just have to take care of the latter, because that's the least we can do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u128	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u129	On legal assistance, I will wait for the answer in the second term, because I think it is important. All these people are involved, especially in the CAF cases, and especially at CAF 11, which we are talking about today, in long-term processes, for which they really had to ask for a great deal of legal assistance. I therefore hope that the length of years will be included in this flat-rate contribution. I hope that will be taken genuinely into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u130	Good. Who was before? Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u131	Let's talk about the counseling. Previously, the state's attorney was offered to help. My observation is that this has certainly not achieved the desired result. That is not so experienced either, according to the signals I get about it. I think it is important that the Secretary of State should choose a form in which this guidance is also offered in a very visible manner, but which is as independent as possible from the State. People need to feel free, because you're suing against the state, against the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u132	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u133	Can I therefore assume that this guidance will be offered when the target group of the compensation scheme is widened? Is the guidance available to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u134	Full-bodied, yes. The first one's good, too, isn't it? At the moment when you're coaching people too much, and you're looking after a lawyer in a manner of speaking, it's always a question of whether you're not sitting too much on a chair you shouldn't be sitting on, because there's really still a trial going on. I think it is wise that this independence should remain substantive. We say: if you can really make that point, we do not mind. Then we won't face each other and we'll see how we can get out of there together. But I think it's important that a judge looks at the altitude and decides if there's anything there. It is almost impossible for us to establish that without some sort of general arrangement. So I think that can also be helpful, just for customization. We are therefore absolutely in favour of opening up to those other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u135	Then, in the future, where can you report? I myself was allowed to speak with a few parents during the lunch break and then you notice that the image is very strong: we have put in pieces in the past, but they never ended up in my file, which have been lost, at least I never seemed to have delivered them. So that distrust is deep. I think we all just noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u136	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u137	I think the Secretary of State is right to think about actively pointing this out to the people. After all, the compensation scheme also specifically reflects people. Can he put something next to the Tax Phone where people can report via a website and which is very clear that you will receive a receipt within a week? If not, you know something went wrong. Because otherwise people think: are they going to do something with it or am I going to lose my piece, again? These are very practical matters, but it does show how deep that mistrust is. I understand that very well. This is good for restoring trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u138	Actually, I think it's a good idea. I have to think about it for a while, but let me take a positive look at it. People actively point to that possibility and how it goes, I think it fits the same pattern. We want to encourage people, not a lawsuit, but encourage you to do so if you think it's wrong for you and if you think you have a good story with that. I think that's good. Of course, we can only do that with the people we already have in mind. That is important; we cannot send a letter to the whole of the Netherlands. In those CAF 11 cases, that's pretty good. Around, for example, black book cases we also see which people they are and whether we can actively approach them. This also applies to other cases. Let me just say: I think that's a good idea. We're gonna see how best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr President, two questions. The first one. These people have often been through a process of ten years, in which something has been stopped and their objection has not been properly dealt with. Because they didn't have any money because of the seizure, their car was seized, they couldn't pay income tax, they were fined through income tax, another recovery came and the bailiffs came to the door for a third debt. They're very complicated stories. You'll have to tell the employees at the Tax Office what happened there every time. Believe me, neither the Tax Phone co-workers nor these parents are waiting for that. Big companies in this country have permanent inspectors. Do you want to ensure that people who enter this route also receive a fixed telephone number and a fixed point of contact, so that they can simply go to a tax inspector when the file is being processed? They don't have to tell their story every time, if you select a number of people who are just gonna handle this quietly. I think that also benefits confidence. The second thing I would like to ask through you, Mr President, is this. If the Secretary of State brings all this to justice, I can see a number of judges thinking: IRS, you have the entire file and client, you have the whole file; go to the courtroom together to find out. We have already seen that in the appeal procedure several thousand cases are appropriate. That is a very normal course of action in tax law. At some point, you say, "Let's go to the table and see if we can settle." In the few cases in which the parent thinks something completely different from the Tax Office that's going to happen, you go to court. Would you like to see if there is some kind of mediation between these stages, a willingness to have a number of people give an opinion? If the Tax Department or the individual refuses that advice, go to court. But just so we're clear, for normal people, the step is huge to bring a lawsuit against the State and then go to trial. So try to bring that intermediate step into the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u140	I think that's a good suggestion, too. In fact, in principle, I assume that the regulation for most people is generous and generous and that it will be okay. But just as you say, there will also be parents who say 'it was something else for me, I do want a great deal of compensation, given what has happened to me'. Again, delivering customization suits the judge best. But that doesn't mean you have to come all the way to court to do that. We do that a lot now. There's a case that says you have a different insight, but before you tax the judge, you're gonna settle. It could be here, too. However, if you offer mediation, for example, and know that there is always a corridor to the judge after that, then that last corridor is almost always used, we know from experience. That's why I'm telling you I'm definitely not against it. In fact, it's a wonderful idea if we could settle between the inspector and the one who's suing. But we also know that it will not be the end in all cases. I just want to say that even if you don't settle with that, it still isn't the case that we face each other hard. In fact, we actually have to do it side by side; that is the guidance we were talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u141	There was one more question about a fixed number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u142	That permanent point of contact, yeah. I'll come back to whether that's adjustable, but it does make sense. Anyone who has a problem with a major service, and that doesn't have to be the Tax Office, and has to tell the same story every time... I'll be creepy myself before I ask my question. So it makes perfect sense. I have to see how we do that in the performance in a moment, but the line is certainly agreeable. I'm just trying to get back to the question of how we think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u143	Thank you for the second commitment. That is very important to start a process and also to have confidence. On that first point: can I understand it so that we are going to do our best to get mediation and settlement and that there is hope, for our part too, that the vast majority will receive an offer with which we can all live and that a form of policy will be developed by the Tax Administration in which damages are paid for? That's gonna be hard enough. If your relationship breaks down because of what's going on here... On an impounded car, I can put another amount on it. Broken relationships and your kids can't offer anything for five or six years is still a tricky one. But do that, make sure those people don't have to go to court after all. Be, so my appeal is, very reluctantly, if you don't give up on it yourself, if the judge's ruling doesn't please the Tax Administration. In this case it has often happened that when the person was right, the State continued to press for the highest. Be extremely reluctant; please don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u144	I think your call is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u145	You don't mind if I respond to that for a second? It's not just a call. Mr Omtzigt hoped that he could explain it in this way. I think it goes too far when I say I'm gonna explain it so that the IRS will come up with a deal on what you're getting reimbursed for in a broken relationship. That's impossible for the IRS. We're just following Donner here. I think Donner's generous about this. He's giving us the opportunity to do something with it. From that point on, guidance and side by side applies. I think this will certainly not lead to an arrangement in which the Tax Administration is going to put a price on... It's complicated issues, isn't it? So you have to prove the relationship between what happened and what happens in the rest of your life. The tax authorities have very good inspectors, but at that point they will really have to recognize their superiors in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u146	I am very pleased with what the Secretary of State says and also with what Mr Omtzigt is putting forward. That is also my point: the idea that parents should go back to court. Two things in addition to that. Would the Secretary of State want to set up the system in such a way that the first step is mediation? This can also be a centre of expertise where, for example, FNV is located. That should at least be the rule and not the exception. That's one. Two. Would the Minister also agree that the first compensation is paid in any event, so that appeal or mediation does not have suspensive effect on the benefit? So those two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u147	The latter is very important. In any case, we will pay out that first part: if we already know what the amount you should have received was, plus that 25%. It's gonna be okay in one go. For example, if it can still affect a later benefit or something, you don't know until the following year. So there's gonna be something else. For we have said that we also want to compensate for this, that we want to 'clean' that too. But most of it gets paid as soon as possible and as far as I'm concerned before Christmas. That's got to be the trial. That's two. The first thing you say is that it shouldn't be a rule that everyone should go to court. No. Let us be clear: we, me too, are still assuming that the scheme we have is good for by far the largest group of parents. We didn't call her generous for nothing. It's not like I expect and hope all these 302 parents who get a message from this go to court to get more. Then that arrangement wouldn't be right. We have the idea that this arrangement is generous, to use Mrs Lodder's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u148	But then I would like to hear two things from the Secretary of State. We have just established that the scheme should be based on much more cases. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u149	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u150	So not the 302. That's what the Secretary of State says. Two. I think it would be wise to at least have a discussion with the people affected and with other experts in order to establish this arrangement. The Secretary of State and the Tax Administration can find it a nice arrangement and are convinced that little is going to court, but yes, it is not up to them, of course. Is the Secretary of State prepared to talk to the directly involved and with the experts before setting up such an arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u151	In any case, we are going to start with the compensation scheme proposed by Mr Donner. This means that for each individual parent or beneficiary there is something different. At the time you have a larger damage, not only the greater damage of not getting those surcharges is paid, but also a percentage of the amount. So if you haven't had €40,000 in surcharges, then you get €10,000 on top of that, for all the years you've had that. That €40,000 per year does not apply to everyone, but there are cases where that can actually increase. And we're gonna keep doing that. Again, I don't want to give the impression that I think all these parents are thinking, "Well, this is ridiculous, we're going to court." I really don't think that's the case. I think that for a lot of parents the scheme offered will apply... For them, too, in the end: I'm still talking about going through more and more if I'm not sure if... I don't want to make it look like I'm with everyone but I think they're going to, but it's important that that possibility is open. So we offer that arrangement. In any case, by far the majority of parents in this group are likely to be eligible for compensation for other groups as well. We'll pay them off. They can then object, because this is another opportunity to say: but I do not agree with it yet. At that time, what we were talking about was: they have that possibility. That is what is being examined, first by the Committee of Wise Men, that independent committee, and then that course is open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u153	So that's part of the arrangement. That's not something else. It's part of Donner's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u154	I would like to hear a simple yes or no on what I asked the Secretary of State and strongly advised: is he prepared to discuss the regulation he is proposing with those concerned? That group is wider than the group we're talking about. Then he can hear how these people feel about that. Is he willing to take that and not just do what he thinks is right because he's following Donner exactly? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u155	Of course, it makes sense for us that, at the moment you are working on a compensation scheme, not only Mr. Donner and his committee are being followed. There's a lot more to that than that. It is not a personal opinion, but in the committee there are a number of professors who have really worked extensively on their comparability. It's self-evident that you involve parents somewhere in that situation. They're these parents now, but they're gonna be other parents too. Just, I don't want to give the idea that we're gonna start all over again and talk to all the parents again. That is really not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u156	Was this about the compensation scheme, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u157	That's what I asked, and then you were standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u158	Is it easy for me to say yes, Mr. Chairman? Then Mrs Leijten can ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u159	Well, then I have two questions. When will it be arranged for the parents who are now sitting in the stands who do not know whether they are covered by CAF 11 or who know for sure that they are not covered by it? When does the Secretary of State set his deadline? And the next question is: has the Donner Committee been negotiated on the compensation scheme? We know there's been multiple contact. Indeed, I find the intangible amount of €500 per half-year to be low.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u160	Those are specific questions. The Secretary of State can also give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u161	I met the Donner Committee once. I have not had any discussions on the way in which she has established the arrangement. I don't know anything about that either, so that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u162	There has been no mention of the amount of the amounts for the intangible damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u163	I didn't discuss it. The committee is an independent committee. The committee was, however, dependent, as you yourself said, on the information provided by the Tax Administration. But I didn't consult with the committee and say: I think you should do this and this or that. That would be ridiculous. It's an independent committee. So she did it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u164	And then the next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u165	I forgot the next question. That was the first question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u166	When will the parents know who it's about that's solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u167	If I do not know exactly which cases these parents represent, it is semantically impossible to give an answer. I'm very clear about it. Mrs Leijten may sigh for the sixteenth time, but if I do not know what the issues are, I cannot answer them. We're gonna solve the CAF 11 case as soon as possible. I've said all about that. I'd rather do that before Christmas when all things are inside. We're just gonna do that fast. Go, go, go, go, go, go, That's what we're gonna do. Then we wait for what the ADR and Donner 2 say. That comes at the end of the year. Then we'll see which parents are similar cases. I cannot now determine for each individual parent whether he or she is a similar case. I can't. Neither can Mrs Leijten. This can only be achieved if Donner 2 and the ADR provide us with an insight into it. I would also like to say to Mrs Leijten that I am not convinced that then no one would be able to come forward who is not among the first groups. There could be more. They're all the same. I'm gonna start talking a little slower, 'cause I think that's nice for them. The same applies to all of them: if they are a similar case, they deserve similar treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u168	Okay, it's up. It was at Nieuwsuur and now in the Chamber, so that can never be unclear again. Could I make a proposal to the Secretary of State? Can he say that he will see to it that everything we have charted at the end of the year, with the ADR and Donner reports, is handled by March? Then, between now and March, we're gonna do our stinking best to get all those people out of those investigations. Can he say that they will at least be finished before the summer, before July 1st? Could we make an appointment like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u169	I do everything I can to keep the pace for all affected parents as high as possible, but since I cannot yet tell which parents are part of it, and Mrs Leijten will certainly not let me always hold on to it. I'm willing to do it much sooner if we have that information. The order remains the same. We're going to work hard with the CAF 11-parents now. We're gonna do that soon. Immediately afterwards, the parents we have in view on other CAF cases or who, for example, came to see Mrs Leijten's blackbook or the hotline. Then we will look for parents who have a good story and who think that they have had the same problem. We will then look at them with the same glasses for what needs to be done. How exactly that happens and with whom, I just can't say yet. That's not unwillingness; I just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u170	I find that difficult. I have just read in the management reports that there are CAF lists and that they have been given to Donner and the ADR. I also read that there is a list of distressing cases outside the CAF. How many people are on there and how big is that group? We don't know. That's why I can't make that appointment with the Secretary of State right now. In fact, I would like us all to say here that the target date is 1 July next year, in principle, that this is finished, that we simply make sure that it is mapped out. Of course, people can still try to make a personal arrangement and preferably not before the courts, but the point is that compensation has at least been given. These people have been waiting for years, years. That can't take another year. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Can we get together: everything before July 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u171	I am glad that Mrs Leijten agrees with me that the pace here is important. Mr. Chairman. I've answered some reflection questions. I would have liked to put them together in a nice story. That may not have been possible, but I have just done some of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u172	Mr President, excuse me, I was just thinking about the previous point. I think we all have the same inconvenience and I think the Secretary of State too: because he doesn't know exactly, he can't say it now. Apart from the answer to Mrs Leijten's question on the lists, I am just looking for a moment when it may become clear in the near future. I am aware that this is also a difficult question. After the first Donner report, the Secretary of State said in the very short term, I think within a few days, I am going to do it and I am going to try to pay it out in about a month. Can he tell us when he'll inform us when that is? The people in the public gallery and also the people who are affected by this need to be clear. The Secretary of State can't give it now. I understand that, however complicated I find it, because he doesn't know who they are yet. The last time he was able to say very quickly after the first report: I'm going to do it and that will be then and then. Does he expect that, after the second Donner report arrives, he will be able to report this to the Chamber in the very short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u173	I am assuming the same policy commitment that I shared before the summer, namely that I cannot imagine that the advisory committee will finally say: nothing happened, no compensation should be made. I did not want to anticipate it because, of course, I wanted that advisory committee to do its job and to help me do it. Exactly the same goes for Donner 2. I have no doubt that I believe that people who have been treated or abused the same thing or whatever you want to call it, should be able to receive the same kind of compensation. However, Mrs Leijten is trying to steer me tight on what it means to all these people, as if I know exactly how or what for all these people, but Mrs Leijten does not know exactly what all these cases are. I want it as soon as possible. When Mrs Leijten says 'let us strive to do it as soon as possible', I say: yes, of course. But I do not want Mrs Leijten to say to me at the time when people are still reporting in June: how is it that these people have not yet been given anything? I'm full of it. I do not have any reservations about the pace. I hope that the Chamber, including Mrs Leijten, understands why it is difficult to set a date if I do not know the cases yet, but she does not have to doubt my determination to do something for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u174	After the first Donner report, we heard in a few days how the Secretary of State was going to do that. Do I understand him correctly that he assumes that he will be able to do so within a few days after the next report, where it may be a large group and it is complicated? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u175	Yes. That is the short answer to that first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u176	That is good, because I do not want to hold the Secretary of State to the impossible, but words matter very much here. I can see that, too, and I understand that. The second question concerns the group of the hotline and the black book of Mrs Leijten. Does the Secretary of State expect those who are already in the picture to be included in Mr Donner's opinion, or does he expect us to be honest about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u177	Once we know what the comparability of the CAF 11 cases is, I think we're going to need that report rather quickly. I need an idea of how we want to do that. By "having a picture quite quickly," I mean that I will then tell the Chamber how I think these matters can be resolved. I'll definitely just do that right away. We'll get that ADR report before Christmas. Donner will reflect on that: what can I do? I think he'll do the same before the end of the year. Immediately afterwards, in January, we will say, 'You will also receive a letter from me on how I proceed with this.' That letter will be full of references to how important it is to be able to do something quickly towards those parents, but we will also indicate how we see this comparability and how we will then ask the Tax Administration to deal with it. So that's just gonna happen. So once we get that, I can't figure out the things we don't have in mind... Suppose someone, reading that, thinks about it in January and then says in February: yes, but actually I think I have been treated the same. I think that these parents should be able to come forward as well. At that moment we will simply talk to the same parents to find a solution for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u178	We now have the group of the CAF 11 case from Donner's first report. For that there is simply the compensation scheme this year. The Secretary of State was also very quick to embrace that. I liked that, too, and I thought it was wise. Then there is the group on which Mr Donner will be advising this year. I will not ask as a promise, but my expectation is now that those people will just know in January what they are entitled to, what is coming and when they will get it. That there may be other reports after that and the Secretary of State doesn't know when these people are coming in, I understand very well. But I'm just trying to make it as precise as possible, because if it's clear to that group in January, then we're giving more and more people clarity step by step, even though it's never fast enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u179	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u180	I have one more question. Is it possible for the Secretary of State to undertake that the generous compensation scheme for people, for parents, has absolutely no impact on the benefits, assistance or on the application for other allowances? Can the Secretary of State promise that people will not be cut in one way or another because they will receive generous compensation that they absolutely deserve? Can the Secretary of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u181	That is the point I made in my letter. I can repeat everything in there about how we're going to do that here, but it might help to read those letters. It says how we deal with these surcharges, how we deal with the benefits, how we deal with box 1 and box 3 effects, how we clean them up. So I really will, and that also comes back in the policy decision...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u182	Perhaps you could deal with this briefly, because not everyone reads the letters we share here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u183	No, but I thought... I'd like that to happen again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u184	This is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u185	This is an important part. It's about the tax stuff. In the policy decision, which I do not have in front of me right now, we deal with its effects. For example, there may be a capital limit for a supplement or benefit. To do so, you need to temporarily eliminate it, if you do not want to suffer from it when getting benefits. That could happen: I am giving you money, but because you are going over a level of capital, you are actually losing a claim, which is often very important. We want to avoid that, of course. The same applies to income. Suppose I give you $40,000 this year. You'd normally pay income tax on that. We have also said that we want to clean up these tax effects at once. We want to take away those effects. We will therefore ensure that this does not affect: no supplements, no benefits and no box 1. It may even be that there are a number of parents, although there will not be many, who have so much power that they have to pay in box 3. This also applies to the provision of an additional supplement. It actually says: the moment you have such a box 3 effect, so do we. So you won't be affected by the fact that you have more assets in a bank account. All these effects have therefore been taken into account. We're trying to compensate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u186	I am glad that the Secretary of State has promised to do so, because a lot of people who are watching have not read the letter from the Secretary of State. I think it is very important for those people that this is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u187	I couldn't agree more. In that respect, it is a good question. Mr. Chairman. It may be that I have not been able to answer a number of questions from the first and second blocks on how it could have come to this. But I think I've made it clear how I'm in it. Then perhaps a matter that I have touched briefly, namely ethnic profiling. A number of members spoke about this: Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Otterloo, Mrs Van Kooten. I just said how I felt about that. It's really up to the authority to look at that now. I think Mr Van Weyenberg was still asking if he is not here right now when exactly. That's up to the authority. Of course, it is about her own planning, but she knows that I think it is important that we have clarity about this as soon as possible. This point has been raised earlier in this discussion, which has been going on for some time. I just think it is extremely important that the authority should give a ruling on this. So even if we see something happening around nationality somewhere, I think it is important that the authority assists us and states that we have or have not done it exactly according to the rules that we ourselves have proposed. I can only repeat once more that ethnic profiling is severely rejected by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u188	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u189	In this little block, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u190	No, on this subject, on ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u191	Yes. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u192	There were three MPs running to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u193	Then I guess not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u194	I understand that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is independent, but I would appreciate it very much if that investigation would become available on the same day as that of the ADR and the Donner Committee. I myself requested a debate on this issue in the spring. I think this is a very important subject in this whole case. I would really be very sorry if we were to have this investigation later and not in conjunction with the Donner and ADR committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u195	I fully agree with Mr Snels. I assume the authority is watching or listening and has heard this. Again, I cannot make that promise for her, but I fully agree with Mr Snels that it would be nice if all this information came to your Chamber in good time and at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u196	At this point, too. I have just obtained information from an ICT expert who has informed the Chamber more often in hearings about the UWV and the Tax Office, René Veldwijk. He says that there are certain queries, certain questions turned, and when you release them, you can see exactly what was searched for with an algorithm, what the question was. For example, it contains data such as the name, address and place of residence, as well as the date of birth and nationality of the person coming out of it. Is the Secretary of State willing to share the headline and the query with the Chamber? That way we can see if ethnicity has played a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u197	Ethnicity has never been kept up; that can never have played a role. Maybe it's nationality. I said: in the past, when creating a risk profile, an inspector looked at whether there was a risk in the declaration, looking at risk factors. That was there. I don't know... 40, 50. There are a lot of things you'll find in a report that you can measure at some point. When you answer question A E, you often see things go wrong elsewhere. Or: there is a big difference between the answer to question A and the answer to question C. In itself, that's perfectly normal. That's what we do in all the surveillance. You may also understand that we do not want to entrust the precise questions on the basis of which we monitor to the public, because these are risk assessments that we need. If the people who aren't best for us know them, we know what the answers will be. It is a question of whether or not nationality is a factor in this. I have already said: no. I can just say that, because I know that: no. This has been the case in the past in the case of risk analysis, but it is not the case anymore. What about the use of a second nationality? It was mentioned in the past with the personal data. That's not the case anymore. It is good that we do not mention this second nationality anymore, because it does not matter at all; it does not matter at all. In fact, we are not allowed to have the data that have been provided to us in the past on second nationality in our system; that is what the authority has asked us to do. So they're gone, too. The answer is, therefore, that there are no more questions of nationality in the case of a risk analysis. We don't do that anymore. Why don't we do that anymore? 'Cause they're not saying anything anymore. So it doesn't give us any more risk. That's actually good news, because that means that it doesn't matter at risk what your first, second or third nationality is. That's actually good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u198	The Secretary of State states that research is being carried out on the possibility of ethnic profiling. I understand that these queries cannot be shared with the Chamber, because they may be confidential, or in some way sensitive. Could this be explicitly taken into account in the investigation? Can the Chamber be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u199	Sure. The latter is absolutely true. So the ADR gets... Sorry, the AP. The ADR also gets to see everything, but the AP gets from us all the information it needs to investigate that. So we also supply all kinds of information, documents and queries to the AP, so that it can say whether it is correct or not. So we certainly do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u200	Ethnic profiling is a very serious matter. So does the Secretary of State. So if the Tax Department is being blamed and an investigation is being initiated by the Personal Data Authority, then I expect the Secretary of State to call them and say: you are independent, but I hope to get clarity as soon as possible, because people feel discriminated against, people are afraid of my service. Did the Secretary of State do so and, if so, when will that inquiry be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u201	I didn't. I'm not used to surprise authorities who do anything with my calls to press them to the heart that I want something. I really don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. I do think that we should give them all our cooperation in order to be able to do their work as well and as quickly as possible. I'll help with that. Again, I can't promise when they're done. We'll give them all the information. They know that it is nice that we can clarify this as soon as possible so that we can discuss it with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u202	I disagree with the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is in charge of a tax administration that can intervene in people's lives. If there is also a presumption of discrimination there is something that really cuts people through the soul; not only people who are involved but also people who simply pay taxes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Secretary of State is in a position to make that request. And the Chamber supports him in that. That's what you hear everywhere. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u203	It is always a combination of speed and care. For me, it is even more important that I can say: I reject ethnic profiling; we do not want it, we do not want it as a cabinet and we did not do it. Or we reject it. It's terrible, it happened somewhere and then we're gonna get to the bottom of it. But I want to prevent me from taking a quick look at the situation for an afternoon, asking the authority to give an answer in a week and then we don't have it. That authority knows how important it is that we have an answer to this. She's doing her job carefully. They must have heard you again. They will have heard that you think that should be done quickly. It'd be great if we could get that done quickly, but we don't need an investigation that's not careful. That care is still very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u204	There's no one asking for a careless investigation at all. And if it takes a long time, I'd like to hear from the authority why it takes a long time. But it's been over eight months. Soon there will be a hint of doubt with the Tax Administration for almost a year, that this may be the case. You want to clear that up! And if the authority were to say that it takes a year and a half to do so, I would have had an internal investigation, as Secretary of State, to draw preliminary conclusions in order to have an answer to that. In such an important and crucial service for society, can you not leave it hanging over the market for so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u205	Once again, I am repeating myself, and I would love it if we could have a careful examination as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u206	Also on this point. I am now listening to a number of interruptions on the issue of ethnic profiling. I deliberately did not go into it because we have made agreements that it will be investigated. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is working on this, but I believe that other parts of the investigation are also under way. I hear what the Secretary of State says, but I do call on him not to create the idea here that it would take much longer. I know the Secretary of State doesn't send you on that, but it's extremely important. At the moment when there is a bit of such a discussion, I also feel called upon to say something about it. 'Cause it can't be. I heard the Secretary of State say that. I've heard him say that before. If it is, we'll take action. But let's make sure it gets out of the way as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u207	Mr. Chairman. I agree with every word Mrs Lodder has said. I can now hear Mr Azarkan shouting "no." I agree with every word. I think it is important that this happens. I just can't come here because we're all comfortable saying, "AP, make sure you finish that in a week." I hope so, and they know how important it is. That speed is just important, because we want it. But in the end, it's up to them to complete that investigation carefully. I'm confident they'll do the right thing. Whatever comes out of it: if there is something, we will have to respond to it and otherwise we will be able to close this dossier. Then I come to the third block: human consequences and culture. This culture is perhaps one of the most difficult to grasp, but also one of the most important ones, we want to find solutions. We have talked a number of times today about why it took so long for things to come up. Why wasn't there a faster response? Mr Omtzigt also mentioned the whistleblower scheme. We will discuss this later. We talked about leadership skills. They were cited by Mr Mulder. I call it social security. Dare to tell your boss if something's wrong, because if you don't, you're not a learning organization. Culture may be even more important than structure. That is a complicated and difficult process. We started it a while ago, but we actually stepped up it in the light of everything we are talking about here today. Apparently, it's still hard within the service to get away from structure and look for the human size. You can only do that in an environment where you are willing to talk to each other. If there's something going on or if you think your service or your colleagues are doing something that's not right, you should be able to report it. Of course, we have our own whistleblower scheme for that, but it is even more important that a culture is created in which it is logical that you can share it with your boss. However, we know that culture is not yet ready. A number of things must therefore be done to ensure that we continue with this. We have recently discussed the Committee on Integrity of the Tax Administration. It was temporary at first, but we're gonna make it permanent. I also agree with Mr Van Weyenberg, who said that there might need to be more publicity. Mr Omtzigt also mentioned this. I think that's right and true. There are reports to that committee, also in individual cases. The fact is, we need to put them better. They should also not be directly covered by the service, but by the Ministry. I think that's important, too. Even then, they are actually too passive. We have talked about this a number of times: how can we act best when there are signs, such as that things go wrong? There are actually two ways you can get signals. I can get signals from the fact that I use my own instruments in connection with this case. That starts with a whole series of p-conversations. It's hear-and-see. It may be normo-treating or functioning. We can also decide that something really went wrong. It can lead to a transfer: anything can happen. If it leads to the most serious form, which is some kind of criminal offense, then we'll bring the prosecution in. Let me be clear: if we run into something that looks like a criminal offence or if we have a reason to suspect it, we will not be afraid to go further and to deal with it. Otherwise, we're gonna let people who really did something wrong get away with it. It is also true that up to now I have not seen any reason to assume that. There are things in our own p-conversations that I find annoying. We talked about inappropriate language. That's all been discussed, but a real criminal offense goes beyond that. At the same time, I also understand your Chamber's wish. I see that also a bit in what happened last week around the question: what can you do? Apart from the normal lines, you also want to put something next to it. We've been thinking over the past week about how best to do that. We then considered that it should be some kind of ombuds-like role, some kind of hotline. We have thought that we want a duo of a counselor and a counselor, who for a year actively seek within the service. They need to talk to the people, specifically about these p-businesses, in the vein of: tell me, what do you see? What happened? Do you have any leads? You guys think something's wrong? Why don't things get loose? There are also cultural things that come into play, but it is also a bit about looking at what has actually gone wrong, which means that we did not have those signals before. This same group of people should also be open to outside signals. I have received a letter from a number of lawyers who say: we really have reason to believe that there have been criminal offences. We have said: well, then we want to know what is going on. If there are reasons, I don't know them, then I want to know, because if there are crimes, then we need to be able to take action and then the prosecution is called in. The setting up of these counselors, who we actively allow to go into the service to find out what's going on, especially with regard to fees, but also with the CAF, will thus be important to get that story around. And I want that round, because if there were people who deliberately and knowingly have done harm to others, for whatever reason, then I want to do something about it just like the Chamber and like everyone else. In part, we can do that through our own p-conversations. I have to do it, and I will, and if things really go wrong, we'll report it. But I can't have a conversation with your room about Director A or B. That really falls within my political responsibility and I accept it, but I do want everyone to know very clearly, here too, that I want the bottom stone to be on top of it. I can't say in advance that I already know exactly where it goes wrong. I don't know, but I'd like to find out. That is why there is an opening. We'll do it through those counselors. In any case, it is important that this concerns a little more culture; Mrs Lodders also asked about the fact that 'can look in the mirror' what you have done. When we had the Tax Administration Research Committee a few years ago, one of the biggest problems with the Tax Administration was that it was slightly wider than this case, but you can really see the same elements coming back again, thinking too much from one's own column. The people who were investigating fraud were only investigating fraud. The people who were in the process of collecting or recovering were only looking at their share. What you really want for that was a significant change in the chains at the Tax Office... is that you have people somewhere who look at the whole thing, who are going to be a little further away and not just themselves, but can look at the whole process in the mirror. That still hasn't been resolved and we're still suffering from it. There's gotta be another way. As far as I am concerned, this is one of the key points that we need to adapt around culture. We must have the courage to look more closely at the structure and at what is going wrong. That's really important. Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look at some of the questions that are still here. A lot of it's about the counselor and wife. Access to all employees, all managers, all relevant documents and files. I think it's good to do that. Staff members should be able to report in. External signals should be able to pass through. If there have been actual criminal offences, they go to the D.A. directly or if necessary through that hotline; it doesn't matter. But if there really is a suspicion of a criminal offense, that's how it happens. There must be a relationship of trust with those counselors. So these aren't gonna be people who just started their careers. We want to have really heavy people who are used to having these kinds of conversations, so that they can also have serious impact on what they achieve. It is also important that they are independently positioned. This means that they are not directly controlled by anyone. They have an independent responsibility. They will have to report to officials. That's the sg and the dg, unless it's natural stories about one of those two. If there's a complaint about a dg, you go to the sg. If there's a complaint about the sg, you go to the dg. Sorry about the abbreviations: sg is Secretary General and dg is Director General. And then you come to me. In the end, the human consequences are imposed on officials by the official summit. Of course, I have a role in this when it comes to my official summit, but the most important thing is that these counsellors can do their work with a degree of solidity and independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u208	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u209	About those counselors and women?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u210	About culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u211	I still have an argument. I'll do that right away. Contradiction is an important point. In part, I've just mentioned that. It makes sense that you can talk to your supervisor and that you can say: hey, why do we actually do so; isn't that special? One of the things I noticed most about Supplements is the lack of a technical structure. I came all the way to the beginning of this and I actually paid attention to this quite soon after the National Ombudsman's report. That sounds a lot more technical than it is. It's really very important that you can talk to someone if you find something complicated or if you have to judge a decision. What happened here sometimes, is that a team that had to consult somewhere based on the question "what would this be like?" sometimes came back to the people who were involved in fraud. That's what Donner describes as a toxic mix that had to be stopped and also stopped. The four-eye principle, the constant viewing and the organisation of contradiction.... "think with me for a moment".... remains necessary. Organising a contradiction with such a counsellor, for example, because you notice a lack of it, is also wise. I think the four-eye principle is important to mention here. I think it is important for managers to also discuss their dilemmas among themselves. We call these dialogue sessions "because some managers face the same kind of problems. There is now little decorated to what happens in box A. I will never use the word "dish" again to make what happens in section A happen in section B. Those are important things. The contradiction is, of course, also with the co-determination, the trusted persons and the integrity committee. And setting up this chain, the top structure that looks through the chain, is also important for contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u212	We have often spoken with the Secretary of State about the culture within the Tax Administration. That is an important aspect and also a persistent problem. We all know that cultural changes are often very difficult and that you have to devote a lot of time to doing so. The Secretary of State indicates action in three areas. On the one hand, such a counselor or counselor. A great deal has been said about this and no doubt questions will come from the questioners. I think that's an important move. I myself have drawn attention to this cultural change, even earlier. Then, on the basis of a motion, it was included in the report to pay more attention to that. During my input I asked to get eyes from outside in the organization to check what steps can be taken in the shorter term. Important steps are mentioned, but we have discussed them before. I'd like to see some action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u213	I want action, too. It's true, I was past this foliage that those eyes are just needed from the outside. They are really necessary if we are to change culture. By the way, we have a culture scan; I hadn't told you that yet. Although that also sounds a bit softer than it is, it really is a hard zero measurement to indicate what the problems with culture really are. We'll have those escorted by externals. The moment you get that zero reading, you can start sending it seriously. We put an external sounding board group next to it or an external group of people who really know it and for example have done it themselves in their organisations. We're approaching this group right now. If we get a picture of them, it is wise that we should share it with the Chamber to make it clear how things stand out and what things stand out. I can also imagine that your Chamber itself would like to talk to this group once to tell you what signals the Chamber hears. I think it's a good suggestion, and we should definitely do that. It has to be, anyway. Without external eyes, things aren't going well. We can report on that, too. I think it is also important to do a development lecture in our entire summit. From the many reactions we get, we see that really not only the employees have been wrong, who were in the process of assessing the surcharges. It's also about what's happening up there. One of the things that I think is important is that a development session has been included for the top 1,250, the 1,250 leaders from team chief to higher. They will therefore be examined to see which points are needed to achieve such a cultural change. Culture change is the most difficult, but perhaps the most important point to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u214	Sure, that's the hardest thing we see in a lot of organizations, but it's oh so important. We've paid more attention to this. In view of the problem we are dealing with, I believe that we need to be able to see progress faster. The Secretary of State outlines important steps, but with my proposal to bring eyes in from the outside, I mean more than a committee. I mean, maybe someone, it doesn't have to be a permanent function that sits temporarily on that chair to monitor that, just daily in the organisation. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I will come back to it myself in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u215	Then I'll go to Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u216	The first point I would like to raise is that counselor and counselor. I think they're very welcome. A few points on that. The first is that they have access to all relevant documents. I assume they will simply have access to all the documents or to all the documents they consider relevant. It doesn't have to be someone else's decision. If they are requesting a document, they must be able to get it. Secondly, these people come up with a recommendation. That could be: go to a conversation, reprimand, punish, or go to the state's attorney's office because a criminal offence has to be reported. The latter is, say, the heaviest variant. Will the Tax Administration follow the advice of these people, who hopefully are external but understand something about tax law, or will we be able to be confronted with an advice that is being given and which the Tax Administration says is not? 'Cause then we'll never find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u217	I can give a brief answer to this. On the first question: all documents, yes, although these people are not just after documents, because we have put the ADR to work for that. They also want to talk to people: tell them what's going on. We all know that documents are extremely important, but I think those conversations are even more important. I can also be brief on the second point. If they say that something is not right or that something is happening, I cannot imagine that we will say that we are not doing anything with it. Then we should not have put these people in the picture and put them in the position. No one has a glass ball, but if we assume they're sensible people with experience, I wouldn't know why we wouldn't accept their recommendations. That's what we usually do with reports like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u218	That's very important. We always do it, as long as these people are completely independent of the Tax Office and the State Service. Think of an old judge, think of an old tax judge. It really has to be people who understand tax law and who understand something from the Tax Administration. That's very important. But it should not be someone who is dependent on something, so that abuses can be reported with authority and one can remain anonymous because there is indeed fear, right or not; I leave that in the middle for a while. We must therefore be able to remain anonymous and report externally. Finally. I heard there's been a report. We're gonna have to get that to this person, too. If there has been a report and the D.A. asks a question, I assume that there is no reference to these people, but that there is simply cooperation with the D.A. when it comes to the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u219	Of course, I agree with the second. Could also report it anonymously. That's an important condition, I think. Also agree with the fact that they must be people who themselves have a lot of authority and influence and are not dependent on anything. Otherwise, they won't be able to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u220	Culture is indeed one of the most important issues in this dossier. For the summer I have already paid attention to this myself. Most of the Secretary of State's reply and the solutions he has to it are about openness, errors, errors, being able to talk about them, about integrity and even heavier facts. What I am talking about in the contradiction is that one of my great frustrations in this file is that the laws and regulations were so strict that it must have been the officials of the Tax Administration who noticed it first. I think we should be able to report these signals, even if the Tax Administration is acting in full compliance with laws and regulations. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u221	Mr Snels is quite right about that. Actually, he says kindly, but also urgently, that this is not happening so far. I also think it is part of my own responsibility. If we make laws, I'll do an execution test. That execution test used to be pushed aside pretty quickly. It was just being done. I've said from the moment I started this job that I think that's unwise. Part of an execution test should not only be about whether something is feasible for the service, but also about whether it is understandable to the people about who it is. You're actually asking if you can add some kind of third element that specifically addresses that point: is it understandable and doesn't it cause people unnecessary problems? I hope and still think that we will allow this to happen in a good debate on legislation. You're actually saying that's just the question, because at least we'll find out that it's not. We all think that maybe we should take care of that differently. In any case, I think so, and as I have heard in the Chamber today, everyone actually thinks so. Should we be part of that in an execution test? I think that's wise. Maybe Mr. Snels doesn't think so. I think it would be wise to include that in the debate that we then have in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u222	I understand the Secretary of State is on the trail of the execution tests. Especially in the case of tax legislation, they are becoming more and more frequent. But now look what happened: in addition to the mistakes of the Tax Administration, all of us here have just put together fraud legislation, with the Chamber and with Cabinets. It is only by the decision of the Council of State of 23 October that we come to the conclusion that it was far too strict and needs to be adjusted. Those signals, which therefore contradict the laws and regulations we are all making here, and which show that something in practice leads to inhumane results, I would like to raise earlier. That can start with employees of the IRS. They see that in practice. Tell them to call it in. I'd like to have reported that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u223	So I actually wanted to go one step further. With a tax plan, there are a lot of measures. There will then be planned legislation. That's how it goes. I get all these notes about that: sister and that's how we can do it; this means it. I'm assuming we normally get a signal about what something means. This is not just about fraud, but also about all kinds of other areas. Is it feasible? Is it understood? In short, is there support for the measures? It is at the heart of the policy-makers to do something about this, and not just about the performers. You're actually asking if we can set something up so that the performers can get a policy signal sooner. You actually want people who are going to be at the end of the policy pipeline to say: if we are going to do this, then it might well be that... I think that suggestion is worth it. I would imagine that I would be heading towards Mr Snels and perhaps towards Mr Van Weyenberg, because he has still promised the microphone that I will come back to how we can do that. I think that's important, because I'm all for that. Yeah, I'd like that, too. The only question is how best to do this. Perhaps Mr Snels himself has ideas about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u224	The point is that I am not only concerned with proposed legislation and regulation, but also with implementing legislation and regulation. That's what execution tests have been about. In all its wisdom, for example in the case of Bulgarian fraud, the Chamber has decided to make these laws and regulations so strict that in practice it ultimately leads to undesirable and inhuman results. Then I still want to argue. So not in the preliminary phase, but in all implemented laws and regulations where, in this case, the employees of the Tax Administration may be working entirely according to the rules, but they themselves are the first to see that something is not right and needs to be adapted. I'd like to hear those signals sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u225	I was particularly focused on the future and how we can prevent it. In fact, Mr Snels says that there may already be legislation that the practitioners know is working very badly. So I agree. I would like to say that I am going to ask my performers whether we see any other areas where it is angular or otherwise incorrect. I'd like to inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u226	This is what I'm talking about. There was no button to suspend, but only a button to stop, says the Donner Committee. If there's a board that's drawing up a policy, it's not going to happen to me that that board doesn't see how the execution can work properly, or that that board doesn't understand that you shouldn't just be able to stop, but that there are situations where you should be able to suspend and avoid getting yourself into trouble. The question is how the Secretary of State intends to prevent such situations. Is that incompetence? It's possible. Or is the lack of contradiction? The point is that mistakes are already being made at the beginning that are not coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u227	Mr Van Otterloo is quite right about that. What is even more complicated in the case of supplements than in the case of the blue side is that I do not have the political responsibility for the various supplements. As a tax administration, we are ultimately the executive of those who make policy wishes. I think I only think with you and most of us that the following would have been important. It is not the first time, by the way, because we had the same kind of problem with the child-related budget not so long ago. You can see that something has been done for years where the policy maker and the performer were very satisfied with how it was doing, when it was wrong, when you literally looked at what was agreed in the legislation. It'll make you a little crazy. We will be, too, so we can only promise to be better. Even if the policy responsibility is not mine, our practitioners must continue to consult with those policy makers, so that we are sure that we understand everything about each other and that we are doing well. Mr Van Otterloo has just a point to make. That didn't go well. We just have to do better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u228	Then I will go to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u229	I would like to continue on the subject of Mr Bart Snels. The Secretary of State focuses on new laws and on whether, with today's state of affairs, they are perhaps other things that are said in the execution: is it really sensible what we are doing? In my view, the point that Mr Snels is trying to make is even wider. We have seen in this case that people even felt compelled as whistleblowers and sometimes as something that seemed at least like it, although people might not want to be approached like that, to express their opposition. What I'm looking for, even with things I can't see at all right now, is that in the Tax Office there's room for a signal that's really what we need to do? It is not, as Mr Donner calls it, that the organization is being flattened. That is what we have had here many times. I am still waiting for an answer to the question as to why it was not just resolved between SZW and Finance in 2014-2015. That is what people wanted, but that signal, which actually turns out to be unfair to people, has stuck around and walked over individuals who denounced it. So that point is not really specifically about today. It's about how you deal with criticism in your organization, that you listen to it, have a good conversation and learn from it. That, I believe, is the point Mr Snels was trying to make, and I am doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u230	Okay, then you've made your point. Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u231	My question is, of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u232	You didn't ask a question, so I'm just gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u233	I think the Secretary of State was aware that I was asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u234	No, don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u235	Are things still going on? I have a broader story. How are we just gonna organize it so that people listen better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u236	Okay. A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u237	It was not the answer to an earlier question from Mr Van Weyenberg which he asked me again indirectly. How did I look at the signals that were there in 2014 around that proportionality, around that all-or-nothing system we built? This has already been taken into account from the implementation. These are the signals that Mr Snels and Mr Van Weyenberg are talking about. It's not like the signals seem to never come up. The question is more why they have too little leverage in the end. In general, that has to do with being able to tell that something else is going on, taking signals seriously, with culture. We just said a lot about that. In 2014, this question of proportionality arose: are people who do not receive part of their own payment not being punished very severely for not being able to justify some of them? After all, it's incredibly painful. That was mentioned. So that was taken seriously. This was shared with the policy-makers by the official summit of Finance. That's the Department of Social Affairs. They've gone into conclave about that. So at that point, you can see that a fraud case explodes or develops. Then those signals melt or they dissolve. How is that possible? I wasn't there. You probably don't either. Most of you don't either. It's just that I think we're all agreed on that, and it's incredibly sinful that the people who said at that time that otherwise shouldn't have had enough leverage to convince politics that things had to be different. Why exactly that goes wrong, I wouldn't know. I can only hope, with everyone and with you, Mr President, that we would have done differently at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u238	Yes, you could have said that right away, because the answers are getting longer and longer. And the questions, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u239	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. But this is still painful. Four years earlier, we could have stopped all that. That's been passed on to the client. The client is the Ministry of Social Affairs and that's where it just stayed. I would therefore ask you to take a broad look at the relationship between the Tax Administration as an executor and the client, because there is a lot going wrong in the client-contractor relationship. And that's what makes all these people wretched.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u240	The latter is indeed important. Hopefully it is also part of the investigation requested in the motion Heerma. It is a question of the Tax Administration as an executive. We are also looking at alternative performers within Finance itself. The supplement system is an example of this. We'll get to that in a minute. You may really wonder if applying the surcharge system and the link to blue has been a favorable choice many years ago. I think I gave the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u241	I really want to get away from that culture because I think it masks the place. I've been with you too long to go along with that. If you don't want to address the problem properly, I can see that the coalition in particular are doing so. There's nothing more difficult than that. By the way, the Secretary of State says that it was found that there was actually too tight intervention, which made it very difficult. That's not true. It was established that the law was broken. An objection was dealt with as an information request. That's completely different. I want to go back there. I want to go to the place of trouble, because that's why the people are sitting here in the bleachers. I have a very specific question, which I had already asked, namely: what you could put under culture? That is called the 'institutional bias'. I've rarely heard a more beautiful euphemism for "disassociate." That's what I'm getting out of. I have a very factual question. I read that the bias shown, the distinction being made, was given a place in the working instructions and continued to work in the opposition and appeal pathways. How did that get a place in the work instructions? What's that look like? Then what was said to an official that allowed him to make that distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u242	I do not know exactly which piece Mr Azarkan has in front of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u243	What are you quoting, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u244	Page 2 of Mr. Donner's investigation. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u245	That's what I thought. Mr Donner gives a pretty good and sharp account of what is happening there. There's a fraud investigation into a facilitator. That's where all kinds of parents come in. That's why it's stopped. I shouldn't have, but it should have been frozen. We've talked about that before. But it's stopped and then it's definitely stopped. Parents haven't been given a chance to find out. We find all sorts of things, but then it goes on. That's what the work instruction says. You can see that in case of doubt, the idea is: there must be fraud. In the working instructions, or things similar to them, it says: well searched and checked. That's actually when things go south. Why didn't these people stand a chance? That's because, if you look closely at the law and the Awir and everything that's there, you can ask endlessly at: was paid at the right time, is everything paid, is it the whole amount, do you have the receipts, is the contract proper, is the contract not changed? It's really a list of questions. If you answer one question wrong, you lose your whole supplement. That is basically the bias: you are suspected of fraud, you must be a fraud. And then we're gonna ask everything out to see if it's true. That's where it goes wrong. That's the bias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u246	Clear, thank you for the answer. If the Secretary of State puts it that way, I think that if 7 million people get some kind of supplement, maybe half of them find something that just doesn't add up. My question is very specific: why is that distinction made in this case and on what basis? And then why is the law being broken hard on the basis of the rules? Why not just do 18 months about something you have to do in six weeks, but also withhold pieces, fail to comply with the Childcare Act and fail to comply with the General Law on Income-related Schemes? Why go there so hard and not with the rest of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u247	That too is the core of a point that Donner makes. Once you happened to be at a host parent's office where there was a fraud suspicion, there was at that time a arbitrariness in the approach: you were suspected of fraud and you couldn't get rid of it. That's exactly what he's saying: the government actually operates here with too much arbitrariness. So that's what that was about. 'Cause you happened to be at another host parent's office, which didn't have any such suspicions, then you didn't qualify for that question at all. So you didn't suffer from...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u248	This has already been extensively changed. That's why I want to interrupt you. Otherwise, we will go back to where the debate began. You have a whole new question, I think, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u249	You ask me that a lot, Mr. Chairman. I think so. I'd like to get back to that culture anyway. In itself beautiful: for the long term all 1,250 managers, for the short term 2 people where you can go if you notice anything. But, of course, it starts at the base. And then I'm a little bugged. Parliamentary questions were asked in March; I will come back to the CAF a little bit, I can't help it. Those parliamentary questions are asking for all those evaluation reports. The Secretary of State will say: I do not wish to respond to your Chamber's request because it contains confidential information. Questions will be asked again in November: when did the Secretary of State see these 15 evaluation reports for the first time? Then it will be answered: I know they exist since March, and I have seen them for the first time today, November 26th. Then I think, "What kind of culture is that?" That's just lax, isn't it? If that is the culture that is put down from the top, what is it like in the rest of the organization? Would the Secretary of State care to answer that? This is really hard culture for me. If there's anything, you have to act equally, the next day, and not just six months later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u250	If I understand the question correctly, you're actually saying that I'm lax as Secretary of State because I didn't read those evaluation reports until that day. If there had been nothing wrong with the rest of those WOB requests and all those other things, you might wonder if I couldn't have spent my time better. But do realize that at that time it was thousands of pieces in that WOB request. And that WOB request contained a list of these 15 pieces. During the period from March to November it was very hard searched to see if it wasn't there anymore. Eventually, I gave you 75 pieces. I have also explained to you that from the evaluations that are not evaluations, but non-validated documents that have never reached the summit and therefore not to me did not come up with an image that was quite different from the one we already had. In fact, one of the most harsh observations is that if you read the CAF 11 piece inside, you think: whatever, it's nothing. This while we all know it's much worse than that. That's the point. Reading those reports, and I haven't even read them all page by page; I've looked at what they are. That's not because of laxity, that's just because we had an image and we widened that image to see if the CAF 11 cases were applicable to other CAF cases. That's why we went through all the drives. The auditors did work on that. We prepared the ADR, Donner prepared the AP. And that's what these pieces belong to. That is not a laxity of this Secretary of State, because I feel a bit that question is behind it. It was just because I think you should decide for yourself, by the way, that there was not much to learn from that for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u251	It's not about learning. Here's what's important. In March, it is noted that there is most likely not much more going on than the 300 cases that were there. Six months later, 9,000 cases appear. I understand that it has been worked in between, and I have no doubt of the Secretary of State's work. But the Chamber is really very much asking for it, by Mr Omtzigt, by Mr Leijten. Then it lasts six months and it says in the answer: I knew it since March and more than six months later I actually saw the pieces for the first time. That's really in the culture for me. That culture has to change. It's about saying: I looked at it the next day and found that there wasn't much in it. The next day, and not six months later, because that gives such a whole service a feeling of "whatever." It is really not a personal accusation that the Secretary of State would not work hard, but at least I am reading something about 'well, it will not be so bad'. In the meantime, however, there are people sitting here in the stands and 9,000 people in the country, and perhaps even more, who are all hit hard by it every day. There really is a culture thing there. There's got to be a hell of a culture change there. If the Secretary of State doesn't say this is gonna change, then I really have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u252	We already agree on cultural change, but here three things are added together. We agree that culture needs to change. When it comes to the laxity that you do not blame me, but a little bit, you outline the picture that there are fifteen evaluations with a staple on my desk that I did not feel like doing for a moment. It's never been like that. There were WOB requests, there were investigations. Those evaluations weren't on a shelf together to read through as quickly as possible. The point was that we were looking for information as to whether there were similar cases. That's what we've been working on. In fact, these 15 were 75 because of the fact that we kept looking. And we have a lot more. We have 170 CAF cases. Maybe we'll find more things to look at. That's really serious, too, because of me. There wasn't some kind of laxity, like we didn't want to know. We've been working on a lot of things at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u253	It seems a little like I'm blaming the Secretary of State for not doing exactly that himself. No, that's the culture. If such questions are asked in March, I assume that they will be put on top of them for a year and a half, and that we will continue to work with man and power day and night within the Ministry, within the Tax Office, so that this will emerge. That's really that culture, because you don't have to draw it to one man, but to the organization. This must really be anchored in that leadership of the organization. If this culture is shaken up immediately, will it be worked with man and power the next day when another question comes from Mr Omtzigt or Mr Leijten? That's what happens in other ministries. This should be different in cases like this, where a lot of people are directly affected. I want an answer to that. I want to hear that's different. Otherwise, I'm gonna have a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u254	There's man and power working...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u255	I hear sounds again from the public gallery. It always went well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u256	We are working with man and power to answer the many parliamentary questions. We are working with man and power to ensure that the Chamber receives the information it is entitled to. I agree. We do not disagree on this. If there are serious cases, the Ministry must respond fully to them. We do not disagree on this either. Nor do we disagree that it would have been wonderful for those parents who quoted themselves if we had moved faster and looked at the situation. I just kind of stuck to the suggestion that there was some kind of ready-made pile on my desk or my officials that we already had, but that we refused to give. Because that was never the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u257	What's past, don't change. But my question is really about this culture change. Is this different from tomorrow? Is that attitude different? If Terrians like Mr Leijten and Mr Omtzig dive on top of that one more time, will a kind of bomb explode in one go within the Ministry and this will be picked up differently? Are we going to do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u258	Yeah, that's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u259	Yeah, but I want an answer to that. Is that different tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u260	Yes. Can the Secretary of State give a concrete answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u261	Every time you or anyone else in the Chamber asks questions, we deal with them seriously. We're gonna make sure you get those answers, too. It was, and it certainly will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u262	Yes, I understand... Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u263	I'm gonna keep having a real problem right now. It wasn't like that. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been like this for six months and even longer. If that culture doesn't change, if the Secretary of State doesn't have that between his ears, I really have a problem. There's gotta be another way. Otherwise, you have no other culture and it stays the way it is. If I don't get that answer, I'm gonna have a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u264	You say you have a problem four times. I'm trying to tell you what I'm doing. If you now think that I have done nothing with your questions or requests, you should simply say so. Or if you find...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u265	Yes. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u266	I just don't understand the question. Maybe it's stuck on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u267	Yeah, that's exactly where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u268	If the point is that I refuse to change a culture here... Let us also be extremely clear about this: we want to do so. That's what we reported. I've just been thinking about that for quite a while. So that's just going to happen, because that's what I'm committed to. The same applies to those parents' allowances. That's what I'm committed to. We all want that different. But the suggestion lingers a little bit that I didn't do my best to bet on these points. I'm really sorry about that, and I really want to adjust that. If necessary, I will come back to this in the second term, because I find this difficult. As regards the provision of information to the Chamber, we will come back to the very beginning, because I am trying to see that something is stuck here and now we want to take it away right away. I have already said in letters and debates that it was not the way I wanted it to be. And why wasn't it? Because we often just didn't have it at all. Why, as Mrs Leijten calls it, did we always go after the facts? That had partly to do with the fact that there was a claim somewhere, you can assume from me that bombs regularly exploded in my ministry and that we had to see where it came from, what it was and if we could grab it to do something about it. That has not been possible for a very long time, and that has to do with the fact that this information was not in order at the time. Now if you looked at the CAF cases and how we organized them, you'd see that it's a lot easier for me to answer. This was very often about the question of what was going on. I know you still think that there was that desk that I had to open, but it was hard to get that information up there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u269	I think this is going to be a repeat of moves. If I understand correctly, Mr Stoffer says that cultural change also means that if there are signals and information is requested from the Chamber, it is immediately anticipated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u270	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u271	Towards the future. I'm not looking back. It's all about me tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u272	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u273	Mr Stoffer has that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u274	Okay. Then Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u275	I'm trying to imagine how you listen to this when you've been a victim of a ruthless IRS, and you hear the Secretary of State here say, "The information was so bad I can't figure out who got hurt right now." I'm really trying to imagine that, but it's weird. Let's talk about the Chamber questions. In March, Mr Omtzigt's questions were answered: I am not giving those 15 CAF evaluations because they contain confidential information. In November, when the Secretary of State himself read them, he says: yes, but this is information that never reached the management summit. What exactly is true here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u276	I think it's both true. The latter is true anyway. Normally you get a note in a political or official summit. It'll be checked and there'll be paraphrases of executives who know it all. None of that happened here. So this has stayed on someone's team and hasn't been on the management team or the fraud team. So for part two, that's true anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u277	So this Secretary of State simply signs answers to parliamentary questions from my colleague Omtzigt without that being management information. Apparently, it was someone who did not account at all for either the Secretary of State or his direct underchiefs about what was in those reports. No, who writes: these reports do not become public, because they contain supervisory confidential information. The Secretary of State is unaware of the seriousness and simply signs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u278	No, not at all. I was talking about the second part, which is about the status of the evaluations. I've already answered that. Your other question concerns my March response and that supervisory confidential information. I think you and Mr Omtzigt have a point there. Now, if I look at those leaves myself, here's what I'm thinking. Okay, you can see anything as supervisory confidential information. What are you looking at? What are you asking for? Some things are really supervisoryly confidential. We're gonna have to get rid of it. Otherwise, people who might want to fraud know what questions we are asking. But I didn't think that was a reason for me not to give it anymore. One of the reasons I decided to give it anyway was because you asked for it as a room. You're right. I said at that time: I would prefer to give it to your Chamber at the moment that I have a solution for those parents too. I think that helps, but it's your right, so I'm gonna give it to you. Then, of course, I could have sat down very strictly on supervisory confidential information. I said, "I don't want to do that." It may well be so, but perhaps supervisory confidential information, given what we have all talked about in this case, has long since ceased to be confidential after six months. So I didn't mind giving that pretty unpainted to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u279	Finally, Mrs Leijten, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u280	I have said before that I found it unbelievable or in fact indicative that the Secretary of State, when he could know by looking at those evaluations how wrong it was, did not look. He should have known that at the time. But now it appears that there have been evaluations, that the Secretary of State answers questions from my colleague Omtzigt who he himself has not checked, which have not been checked high in the official summit. I find that unbelievable. These were just on crucial points. There comes what Mr Stoffer says for the future, but the past also applies to me. How can I trust that, if we ask for information, we will not have this misconception again and not say again: that is not relevant to this debate, so we will not give that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u281	We are in danger of having another discussion, for example on Article 68. I have discussed this with Mr Omtzigt quite a number of times. We are going to do the same with the Minister responsible for policy, the Minister for the Interior. Then we're definitely gonna talk about that. I still think it would be more useful for the Chamber not only to send such a pile of documents, but also to add the story of me, for example, if something went wrong. We all agree on that. No one has to debate that anymore. We're gonna make it up to them, too, and we're gonna stop it from happening. These are the principles that we continue to apply. Then I say: I would have thought it wiser to, as with Donner 1, so to speak, give all the WOB requests and all the information questions that were built up at once so that we can talk about the whole thing, including how we can help these parents. I still think so, and some of you in the Chamber thought so too, because we have talked about this before, because it was not unwise to do so. I would not have thought it strange that we should do it for other parents at the same time as we deliver the ADR report. At the same time, I said: well, it is also your right as a Chamber to want that information. I haven't been economical when it comes to painting or anything. I just gave it the way you asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u282	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u283	We are talking about what we want to know and when we are discussing it. The Secretary of State, who wants to present an image and perhaps with it wants to brighten up his policy, has nothing to do with that. If we ask for anything, he sends it. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u284	I wholeheartedly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u285	So far things have been going pretty well in the stands, so if you could just hang in there a little bit. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u286	Let's talk about the solution and the cultural change. I understand that for years there has been work on a form of direct funding of childcare. The Branchevereniging Sociale Kindervangen and the Stichting voor Voor Werkende Parents actually say: "We have been on such a course for years. We've advised. We have all worked very hard on it." Surely that should solve all the problems in the future, so that this does not happen again? Well, then it's clear who's using childcare. Then that money won't be pumped around anymore. That saves people a lot of horror and misery afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u287	I think we all agree that things have to be different from what we do now. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. We've had an inter-departmental policy investigation that's also extensively portrayed. Are any improvements possible within the current system? I am thinking, for example, of the question of proportionality. I believe that there are real improvements within the current system. But it may well be that the real solution is to change the system. You say that there is a group that has thought about this. I do not know exactly what their proposals are, but it will certainly have been well thought out. We'll have to take it with us. In the departmental policy research we also have these larger solutions examined. This is really important in the light of how we deal with the surcharge system in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u288	According to my information, the Ministry has also worked on this, as has the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. But at some point, that's where the plug went off. It would be a great deal of trouble. You can bet on changes and reshaping the system again, but the system is already overloaded. If there is any objection, it will take years for that to be picked up and resolved. So my question is: does the Secretary of State also want to look at such a system of direct financing to solve the problems? If we recreate the system now, I don't have any confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u289	I do not think that we should have any taboo for the direction of resolution if we are to achieve a system that we are all satisfied with. This also applies. By the way, within the current system, there is already a great deal of consultation between the people working in childcare situations, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is responsible for policy, and the executives. This is, for example, about how we can make the information work better and how we can prevent you from giving someone a lot of advance and then taking it all away later. So I think we agree with the idea that we are going to use all the good ideas for that. I'm not saying no matter what comes out of there, this is my idea. But it is guaranteed to be helpful to use in our exploration for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u290	I have two more points, two different points. First of all, I should like to return to the point just made by my two colleagues here. I asked question after question after question after question to get those evaluation reports. That takes nights of work, because the parents sitting here called me, and because I realized there was something. I understand now that if I ask a parliamentary question, it can be written down somewhere in the organization. Then I don't have to be a MP. I'll be a journalist. Then I'm going to file WOB requests, because I get answers in WOB requests. May I assume that there is a Member of Parliament who is tormented that from now on my parliamentary questions will be answered at the highest level? When I see something going wrong, I just want to see the pieces of it. Then I can check. Then I can do my controlling job as a representative of the people. That's what I want. That's how I look at myself in the mirror. I would have liked to have this debate six months earlier. Mr Van Weyenberg's timeline could have been put forward for six months. That is why I ask you to reflect on what Mr Stoffer said. There was a request for pieces here. That wasn't a big WOB request like RTL did. They were very specific pieces. Can I assume in the future that they just come? I'm not asking for e-mails.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u291	Mr Omtzigt is right. He has asked for pieces several times, by the way also for e-mails and other pieces. That's what we've been discussing. Some pieces are also really important for internal reflection. That is absolutely not the case with these evaluation requests. We've been in touch about that before. I thought it would help a lot to do that. Perhaps I should take away the misconception that, somewhere in the bottom line, officials are busy with the parliamentary questions. That's not true at all. But I'm not looking to see if everything that's written in all the documents behind a Chamber question is true, especially when we look at the quantities we've had. When asked in a parliamentary question "can I see the following seventeen reports?', I'm not gonna go through all those 17 reports and make sure everything that's in there is true. I really want to say that to Mr Omtzigt. I saw him get excited, but I don't think that's necessary, because I'm responsible for and accountable for what they're doing anyway. Let's make that clear, too. There has been no question of a Chamber question by Mr Omtzigt or anyone else who I do not go through myself to say whether I feel senang about it, whether it is true, whether it has been taken into account with sister and everything. We've made a different choice in this. Mr Omtzigt says: I would really like you to have made that choice differently in March. I didn't do it any other way. I can't fix that either. We've been talking about that for a while. I didn't do it any other way, also because at the time I was just thinking: there's not a lot of extras in there. I can try to read and do all that, but I still don't know if that will help the discussion. On the contrary, I would like to contribute to helping that discussion towards that solution. So, yeah, I get the frustration that it took longer. I agree with Mr Omtzigt. It would have been nice if we had all done that a long time ago. It would also have been nice if we had already decided in 2012 and 2014 to do something about the all-or-nothing system around the surcharges. We didn't. That is why I understood Mr Stoffer's question. Maybe I overreacted because he had some kind of feeling that we all didn't do anything. I found that feeling a little unfair, especially when you look at how much time my officials and I, all of us, have spent on this. But you are right to say that serious answers to questions must be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u292	That's the point. The accusation is not that nothing has been done in the last few months. The accusation is that I say that quite honestly I have asked for four or five times for certain documents. I didn't ask for e-mails. These were the only pieces I requested in the parliamentary questions, up to three times. Believe me. I've been in this room for so long that if I've had to ask for pieces three times, I have very good reasons to think there's something in it. Very good. And this time I was right. Maybe I'm going to be wrong, too, but it happens to be my right as a Member of Parliament to get those pieces. Can I confirm that the right of a Member of Parliament under Rule 68 applies here? Then another time we're gonna talk about whether e-mails and stuff are covered, because I get it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u293	Then it's us, I think, quick. You absolutely have that right. I'm not gonna take a millimeter off of that. I've said that before in an AO. There's just something... Then we come into the discussion about Article 68, which we can talk about again later. But Mr Omtzigt and all those who just asked for it, including Mr Stoffer, are absolutely right about that basic right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u294	Thank you. That's clear. This means that the next time we ask for a limited amount of pieces, we do not make any requests for a WOB here, it really is 'yes', that there will be a very long if and then there can be a lot of things. I have a second question. I also tabled another motion in March. I have difficulty with the vague concept of culture, because I am in this hard-core situation. I'm in the hard part: if you don't comply with the law, you can't have it as a culture, but then we have to intervene at that time. One of the major problems faced by taxpayers is small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, small entrepreneurs, zzp'ers and payment recipients. I'm talking about calling the Tax Phone, where you can't derive legal certainty, about losing all sorts of pieces due to problems in the mailroom, and about not having files in order. It is about the contact in the Netherlands between the Tax Administration and the citizen. There is "citizens" including small businesses; we have a different problem with multinationals. That contact would be investigated. An ex-Ombudsman, a former judge or someone else would see how the citizen, when he gets in trouble, can get in somewhere at the IRS and understand that something is wrong. I'm talking about a place where his file is also looked at in such a way that when he gets stuck, he calls there twice, you can really call for questions; that's not very convenient. Can you really start that investigation as soon as possible? In that investigation, would you also like to take the Taxpayer Advocate who is a kind of ombudsman they have in the US? Because we do not think that the National Ombudsman has been able to intervene hard enough in this matter. The same applies to the CAF 11 case. For two years. It didn't actually happen. So would you like to come to the Chamber with a proposal within a few weeks so we can see how someone can just get their rights from the IRS? That is independent of how the surcharges are going to be arranged, or how we are going to do other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u295	Here too is the short answer: yes, that will come. I think Mr Omtzigt even asked in a motion for a resolution to do so before 1 December. It hasn't really happened in the last few days, but it was high on our hit list. We are really coming up with a proposal on how we want to do that in the very near future. We will not completely copy the suggestion of the American system, which I happen to know from my own experience, because there were a number of things that did not go very well, as I know from the past. But the idea of a point of contact that also does something and to which, in good Dutch, you give more leverage, I totally agree. This is also really about the legal protection of the position of citizens and small businesses. I have a short-term proposal for this in a letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u296	Okay. Then I would like to know how far you are to answer all the questions of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u297	I think I've handled all the cubes by now, but I might have missed one more question somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u298	Then I'll look at the MPs. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u299	I asked the Secretary of State how he sees the political responsibility for a government that does not protect but plunges people into misery and falsely accuses people for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u300	Sorry, Chairman, I was just checking. I think I have one more block in a moment, namely system surcharges. It's about proportionality. That was in my right stack, and I think I need to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u301	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u302	That is the case, but I will answer Mrs Leijten's question. I think it's very well and clearly arranged. I am politically responsible for what is happening now and what has happened. I am, and I want to be. For that I have accepted this task, and I will continue to observe it as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u303	The Secretary of State therefore does not draw any conclusions from the fact that parents have been treated institutionally, that there have been many political moments when this could have been stopped, that this has been left behind and that he personally did not see the seriousness of the matter, until this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u304	I know all that, and I just indicated all that myself. Look, I'm in it real easy. As long as I think I can make a contribution to the solution for those parents, I'll go on with it day and night. That's what I'm committed to. It is not up to me to draw the conclusion you are referring to. I continue to answer for what has happened, and I continue to work for what remains to be done. That's how I'm in it. If you would like to draw a conclusion to that, it is not for me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u305	Clear. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u306	Taking political responsibility, just on the basis of the trust you get from Members of Parliament, is a very narrow understanding of political responsibility. There is a huge scandal on the part of the government for many years. Groningen is bigger. The government has set itself up as an enemy of the people she's supposed to protect. Does the Secretary of State not see in any way that political responsibility should be borne for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u307	No, I think that's a misconception. I certainly feel politically responsible. That's why I do this work every day, yesterday, for the past two years and as far as I'm concerned, in the time after that. What's done is done. We've given our weighting to that. I said that I think we were on the border and went over it. Then you can tell me to take my political responsibility. Yeah, that could be easy, and that would be easy, but I think it's more important to keep moving towards a solution for those parents right now. It doesn't come any closer with some kind of political act. You have problems and you have solutions. You can try to find political solutions, but I'm trying to find real solutions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u308	Then I'll go to Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u309	Political responsibility, of course, has a number of sides. One side is the question if you're still the right man to improve. The Secretary of State says yes to that. He does it with conviction and wants to make it better. That's what he just argued. The other side is of course that you are responsible for everything that services have done. That's why I'm not from the school that officials should be prosecuted and locked up, unless the D.A. does. The Secretary of State is accountable in parliament. Even the SGP asked for it in the first term. I said that there was an abuse of power by the IRS. I asked the Secretary of State to take over this term as part of the political responsibility. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u310	This is some kind of hang yourself. If I think things have gone wrong, then I have to take political responsibility. I don't see it that way. I think a lot of things have gone wrong. These people have been hurt. I've said a lot about that in and out of the Chamber and towards the parents. I'll keep doing that. It's outrageous how it's been handled. It's just a little too easy, I think, to say: something went wrong, so I'll take responsibility for that. I also believe that I have been appointed as long as I have the confidence of the Chamber to ensure that we can do something about it, to prevent it from happening again and to finally meet the people who have been affected. None of that has happened so far, and I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u311	Terms also matter in politics. The Secretary of State frequently uses the term that the "human measure" has not been applied. That's the euphemism of the century. It's just that people have been treated with shame. That's what he just said. It matters. I think "abuse of power" is one of the most serious qualifications you can give a public service. The tax authorities have enormous power. That's why I'm giving you that qualification. I think it is important for the Secretary of State to acknowledge this seriousness. He's talking about institutional bias. That's too vague for me. That is not hard enough for me and not responsible enough for the misery that has been done to people. I therefore believe that the term 'abuse of power' should be used. Mr President, first of all, I should like to raise a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u312	I know that 'institutional bias' sounds complicated, but I actually thought it was a very appropriate term for how things are going. It's not euphemism. Again, I've said it before in the Chamber. If it had been so that one or two people had behaved horribly misbehaved, which affected people, you could have solved it. But this is worse than that. These weren't one or two rotten apples. This is about the whole system that we have all set up and that the service has carried out. They didn't do that right; we're perfectly clear about that. They didn't do it right. But it is also a little dangerous to say in a system that is actually not very feasible, Donner, and a lot of comments in the newspaper, that even on those who are at the end of the line and who have to implement that system, all the political responsibility and the word you are using, and that I deliberately do not use it every time. I really don't think that's how I see it. I really think we should redesign the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u313	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u314	Yes, at the end of the line is the Secretary of State. He's not taking over my term of abuse of power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u315	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u316	I would ask for a suspension for the second time from 15 minutes to 20 minutes for consultation within our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u317	We're not there yet, because I think the Secretary of State still has some...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u318	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I still had the law's amendment. Because I've had to give up most of my own block system, I'm mixed up, but I wanted to say this. This is the last important statement of the Council of State recently. It actually said something about the proportionality of the all-or-nothing system we have now. In the case of parents who have only paid part of the costs, the entitlement to the supplement shall be set to zero. That's really something we, I think, need to get rid of. What I have indicated with my colleague Van Ark is clear, I think. We need to introduce proportionality, as we call it. There's no other way. The right shall then be determined in proportion to the amount paid by the parent to the childcare organisation in good time. You could then say that the system is: if you can show that so to speak before 1 March of the following year, then you are just entitled to it. On that front, the parent can also simply conclude a payment scheme with a childcare organisation. This requires a policy rule. This should be done in anticipation of new legislation. The Council of State says it would be good to respond to that within 26 weeks. We want to do that sooner. So we want to send a letter to the Chamber before December in which we describe what we are going to do and how we can do it better, so what the results of this new system should be. We will come immediately afterwards with a policy decision, so that it is also clear where we are going in the legislation. Shortly afterwards, we will try to submit legislation to the Chamber so that we can take it off in good time. When it comes to what we can already change to a system that we might be able to change. Going to change even more, I think that's something that's really important to look at. We are going to deal with Mr Bruins, either in advance or afterwards. At least the way we've organized it doesn't work. We really think that part of the misery could have been avoided if we had taken this proportionality test earlier. That's what I wanted to tell you at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u319	Thank you. A short suspension of about 15 minutes has been requested, but there is also a need for a slightly longer suspension. I'll look at the Secretary of State first. You're our guest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u320	I'm following your choice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u321	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u322	Maybe it's also useful to do a slightly longer suspension. Then we can combine it with dinner break. After dinner break...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u323	This means that we shall suspend until 6.15 p.m. or 6.30 p.m. Is that a proposal? I'm looking at everyone now. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u324	I don't know where that need comes from. I'd have asked for 15 minutes or 20 minutes on my own. Then other people can have the debate here tonight after the second term. I have a preference for a short time, but I don't know where the request came from to suspend for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u325	I don't know. But if there are groups that want to do so, they simply propose it. Then you can respond to that. Who was before? I'm going to see Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u326	We're in the bleachers with people, too. I'd really be very wrong to keep these people waiting for an hour now. So please let us just continue with the minimum suspension that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u327	Of 15 minutes, if I understand correctly. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u328	Once again, Mr President, because then we can finish a little at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u329	Mr. Snels, can you live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u330	It's a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u331	Yeah, is that right? Does the majority think 15 minutes is enough? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u332	We shall continue with the debate and have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u333	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers, sometimes a little difficult, in the debate. It's an important subject. What is important here is to do justice to all those people in the gallery and to all those people who have been watching for so long, and not just the feeling that they have gotten caught up. They got caught and felt that they were passed through the shredder by the IRS. I assume that all these people will soon be able to see their file, that a compensation scheme will be started quickly at CAF 11 and that we will hear exactly how the other people will be met in January. Mr. Chairman. I don't want there to be a lot of lawsuits. That's why the first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Donner Commission proposed a compensation scheme in its interim opinion;]] [[noting that this will be an adequate compensation for many parents, but for other parents who have suffered demonstrable follow-up damage as a result of job losses, seizures and forced sale of their homes may fail;]] [[noting that these parents are open to court, but have been sued against the Tax Administration for years on the recovery of claims;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that parents who have suffered more damage within CAF 11 and other (CAF) cases are able to obtain their rights in the most straightforward manner and without obstruction, and to notify the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-551]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u334	Mr. Chairman. The Donner Committee continues, but I also assume that all these people will be given an individual telephone number and no longer have to call the Tax Phone, that they no longer have to be afraid that their car will be constantly seized in the meantime, that they will no longer have to live in fear. I want a commitment on that. Mr. Chairman. In the slightly longer term, the contact between citizens and the tax administration should really be fundamentally different. We will soon be getting a proposal for this, and I look forward to it, because it is very necessary, not only for these people, but also for a lot of small entrepreneurs, for loan assistance or on other files where people are stuck hugely. Mr. Chairman. If something's wrong, you need to intervene. It's a good thing there's a counselor and a counselor coming in now, but they're going to be absolutely independent. It must be old judges, people of stature, so that people can really see if people who knew that have made mistakes that could have been avoided. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it was difficult for the Tax Administration to effectively report wrongdoings in CAF cases and other cases, such as not acting according to law;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to effectively report these past and present abuses to an independent body, accessible to people inside and outside the Tax Office, so that the abuses are resolved and appropriate measures are taken to deal with these serious abuses;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber every six months on the form and results, the abuses found and the measures taken in the progress reports we receive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u335	Mr. Chairman. One last comment. I have heard the Secretary of State's last reply very well. The next time we ask parliamentary questions and ask for very specific documents, we get them, because they allow us to carry out our controlling task. In this case, it would have been a matter of months in the solution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u336	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u337	Quite a bit happened earlier, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State thought he'd come up with a solution: you can call the Tax Phone. Those parents have been doing that for three weeks for their file. They started laughing like hell. The Secretary of State didn't even realize what was happening. The gap between policies, intentions, and what is felt, was visible and palpable here. It was embarrassing. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a government that, for years, wrongly gives people the stamp "frauder," which leaves people in bitter misery for years and does not protect people, but makes them defenseless. We're not talking about a commercial company that wants to make a profit; no, we're talking about a government. This is enough to assume political responsibility. There has been political failure in recent years. There have been several times when it has been found to be disproportionate, but no political steps have been taken. Much suffering could have been avoided. Today, in the debate, it appeared that there had been a solution earlier if the Secretary of State had asked in September last year or in March this year when he answered Mr Omtzigt's questions and wanted to know what had happened. Today I still do not have sufficient information on the size of the families affected. I have no idea today of the solution to carry out the controlling task I have and to assess whether what the Secretary of State is proposing is enough and meets the great injustice that is taking place here. Mr. Chairman. The worst thing I think is that I had begun to think that this important day was not used for a solution for the people who sit here and follow it at home. Which means there's nothing I can do but file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Secretary of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u338	Mr. Chairman. If you'll allow me, I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that years of structural errors have been made in the Tax Administration where innocent citizens have been severely harmed;]] [[Whereas, without functioning and reliable tax administration, the government is unable to fulfil its obligations;]] [[points out that a parliamentary survey should be carried out on the functioning of the Tax Administration/Admissions;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of this study,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-554]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a very emotional debate today for the parents who have been fighting for many years hopeless with the largest government service in the Netherlands, the Tax Administration. A tax administration that, in the opinion of the PvdA Group, has abused its immense power against a group of innocent parents. Mr. Chairman. I asked the Secretary of State about his political responsibility for that. He's not personally responsible for it, because he wasn't there at the time. The PvdA Group does feel that he is politically responsible for this. If a public authority causes so many hundreds, probably thousands, of people so much suffering, it cannot be without consequences. The second point I have asked the Secretary of State is what he himself has done over the last year and a half to correct the abuses that have been committed, to compensate parents and finally to give security to people who have been fighting against the Tax Administration for so long and who have tried to get justice from judges, but have always been wrong and have been dismissed as fraudsters. In the view of the Labour Party, there has been too little and too late response. Mr. Chairman. These two cases mean that the PvdA Group can only conclude that the confidence in this State Secretary has been lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u340	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for replying. It was an emotional debate, especially due to the presence of many of the victims. But it was also a heated debate, because I feel that we have had this debate a few times. Just like we've asked five, six times for information. Mr Omtzigt has already said so. There's not gonna be that information. I've been going over a couple of questions. Too often we get evasive answers. I have asked myself to what extent the Secretary of State is liable and responsible for what has arisen. I really assumed that he had responsibility. There's one thing that really bothers me. I said that during an interruption. It concerns the Ombudsman's report with destructive conclusions. This was already known in August 2017. It literally stated that the approach has put a large part of the beneficiaries in an impossible position for a long time, in major financial problems and in great uncertainty. There was too little speed in the handling of the objections. 41% of the objections were rejected by the Tax Administration. Eighteen months of uncertainty, because the Tax Administration takes so long to deal with your objection. And in the meantime, people are gonna die, and you're gonna let them down. Mr. Chairman. I've weighed that heavily. I've honestly wondered what more signals you should have as Secretary of State to act on. I seriously charge the Secretary of State with the fact that until recently the parents were still being prosecuted. When that was found, he said the parents had to go to court to get them right. The world turned upside down. For that reason, I believe that the Secretary of State is no longer able to go on as a ruler in this cabinet. That is why we will naturally support the motion that we have co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u342	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u343	Mr. Chairman. I ended the first term of the PVV with the question whether the Secretary of State finds himself the right person to solve this problem. Yes, that is a copy of the question asked by D66 in 2013 to the VVD'er Frans Weekers in the debate on Bulgarian fraud. That debate ended with a motion of censure, tabled by Pieter Omtzigt, as a clear political signal. For the PVV, the answer to the question in this debate has become clear. No, the Secretary of State is not the right person. Not only did he act too late, but he didn't control the service either. There is no other explanation for the fact that it has all taken so long. That is why my group will support the SP motion with complete conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u344	Thank you, Mr. Edgar Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the reply and for the commitments. I think it is important after this emotional day, especially for the parents who were here this morning for the petition, many of whom are still in the public gallery. I would also like to thank them for the opportunity to have lunch with some of them in order to hear their poignant stories. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, all the focus must now be on the compensation that the group of parents of the CAF 11 case should receive as soon as possible. We also need to do so as soon as possible. I really hope that in January.. we will have a look at this for the following group: the other CAF case, the people of the black book and Mrs Leijten's hotline. I am aware that a group of people who may not fall into these groups, but who have also been affected, are coming from behind. I was allowed to speak to some of those people today. It is clear: people have been ground by the government and labelled as fraud. That was a stamp they never got rid of, no matter what they did. I think everyone here has been very seriously affected by that. These people's lives have stood still. We must learn lessons from this for our laws, for the functioning of the Tax Administration and certainly for our functioning as legislators. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a number of motions. Mr Omtzigt has just tabled two. There will be further motions on the future of the surcharge system and on culture. The culture of the Tax Administration really needs to change. Mr Bart Snels van GroenLinks will come forward with a proposal on the speedy amendment of the legislation. I think it is important that we can restore the confidence that has gone on foot only. We'll all have to work hard on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u346	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u347	Mr. Chairman. This has been a difficult and difficult debate, because it is something very serious. This is about the trust that people have in our government and in our government's actions in individual cases. When I spoke to the people this morning and lunched with them this afternoon, the stories came in loud. We need to learn big, big, big lessons from this. That this has gone so wrong that we have been able to create a system that is so inhuman and so untenable and ultimately untenable, we have to charge ourselves. This applies to us here in the Chamber, but it also applies to our predecessors and previous cabinets. That is what I said in my first term. The Donner Committee chose the term 'institutional bias' for a reason. This was not just to write on the account of the Tax Administration, and it was not just errors of individual tax officials. This was much wider. It also had political and legal pillars. That is our responsibility. Mr. Chairman. We will soon receive reports from the ADR, the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Donner Committee. We will then have the debate again on exactly what went wrong. We still don't know everything, and certainly not the size. I think that's important. I saw the motion, of course, coming. In the short time we had during the suspension, my group spoke about this for a moment. We have come to the conclusion that this is not the time to make this final assessment. Mr. Chairman. I do have two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u348	A brief question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u349	I wonder what kind of GroenLinks would be a moment to make such a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u350	I'm going to file a motion. Then I'll come back to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u351	Well, I'm setting it up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u352	It's more convenient... All right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u353	Fine. Perhaps you could read your motions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u354	This indicates that this debate is not yet ready for my group, not even after the reports that are coming. I'm not finished with those reports from the ADR, from the Personal Data Authority, from Donner. They are going to look again at the precise role of the Tax Administration. I really think that we should also look at exactly what Donner says, about this political context, about our own responsibility, to mention once again that example that Donner himself refers to: why has nothing been done with previous signals? Why did the Tax Administration send out the signal that one had to stop with this all-or-nothing approach and take more account of human standards? This has been discussed with Social Affairs. That has finally disappeared, because at that time tackling fraud was more important than dealing with the Bulgarian fraud. If we really want to look at ourselves as well, if we want to tell ourselves, Members of Parliament, our predecessors, also the rulers in previous cabinets, the mirror, then I think we should take that into account in a final judgment. As long as we do not know, as long as we do not want to face up to this political context, including the case law surrounding it, we cannot reach a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u355	I think it's so crazy. We have established before the summer that there has been unlawful action. We've seen in the WOB papers how they've been judged. Eighty-five thousand warrants have been suspended, although in many situations this is not going well. It has simply been established that institutional bias has been established. And then you need a hearing with a lot of people so that you can only see that political responsibility must be taken? I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u356	Then I have another... Oh, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u357	I, too, notice something crazy. Since the summer GroenLinks has been a huge pillar of this cabinet. I would like to draw Mr Snels' attention to the following. This debate today was about the CAF 11 case. That's what the announcement said. I grabbed it for a while. I understand the general comments made by Mr Snels. I'm also talking about how we deal with surcharges. I understand that, but that's not what this was about. I would like to say to Mr Snels that he is really failing the parents who are here. This isn't about being tough when you commit a violation. This is about not committing an offence and then being systematically destroyed for six years. That's what this is about. This is about violating laws, the General Administrative Law, the General Law income-dependent schemes, but also the law relating to the childcare allowance. We established that with each other on July 4th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u358	What is your question, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u359	I wanted to make that right on this point. I want to know from Mr Snels whether he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u360	Sure, and I interviewed the Secretary of State on that, too. The exact order in which it becomes clear at which time the Tax Administration did not act in accordance with the law is important. But at the same time, you have to find that that's not the only reason why all these people got into trouble. If only we had different legislation. If only we had that statement from the Council of State on 23 October. If we had those five years ago, all those people wouldn't be sitting in this gallery. This means that it is important not only to look at those specific moments when the Tax Administration has made mistakes. They're serious and heavy. But it's also about what happened next in the trajectory and how these people were treated. That is exactly what the Donner Committee's report is about. That is what institutional bias is about. It's not just about the one moment when the surcharges are stopped. That was illegal, but that was not only the cause of the misery that all these people have come into.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u361	Last, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u362	I am so disappointed by Mr Snels, but also by Mr GroenLinks, that he goes along with the term 'institutional bias'. It's just making a distinction, saying in advance that someone is a fraud and persevering and breaking the law. That euphemism 'institutional bias' should never again be used in this Chamber. No one in this country gets away with: I'm institutionally biased, so I'm allowed to break the law. Nobody. We have to charge ourselves with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u363	There are two things that are incredibly disturbing me about this whole thing, but also about the system we have set up; I have already said this in my first term. The first is individual responsibility. People must always submit their own applications, provide their own proof, keep their own information accurate. And if anything doesn't add up or something doesn't right, the whole supplement goes down. That is one of the major problems I have with this supplement scheme. And that goes for these people, but also for thousands of others. The second big problem I have is that the government is suspicious, that the government sees people almost by definition as potential fraudsters. That too has gone wrong. In my first term, I told and argued exactly the same thing. But that doesn't mean we just have to look at the mistakes of the Tax Administration. That also means looking at ourselves in the mirror. I find it really too easy to just keep pointing to those 30,000 officials at the Tax Office, because they are simply trying to implement our laws and regulations in large numbers. If something goes wrong there, we have to look at ourselves first. Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State has a number of things to do, and we have talked a lot about this today. He must ensure that compensation for these people is settled as quickly as possible, that it is transferred to accounts but also that the legal basis for this compensation is right and is ready as soon as possible, here in the Chamber, so that these people get their compensation, but also all those other people who are entitled to it. The second thing this State Secretary has to do is to reply briefly to the judgment of the Council of State on 23 October. It is really fundamental, a change in case law: away from the "everything or nothing" approach, really looking at the human dimension. This means something for the implementation of the Tax Administration and that means something for the legislation. That's what I have this motion for. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the fraud approach is too easy and often unfair to assume that people are fraudsters;]] [[Whereas, when applying for surcharges, it is too easy to draw attention to the individual's own responsibility for the accuracy of the data;]] [[Whereas on 23 October 2019 the Council of State considered that the Tax Administration should take greater account of human dimension within 26 weeks and that policies should be proportionate to human impact;]] [[Calls on the Government to send a letter to the Chamber before Christmas on how the implementation of the Tax Administration will be adjusted, with this adapted implementation starting by 1 January 2020 at the latest;]] [[calls on the Government to present a legislative proposal as soon as possible so that the law can be amended by 1 June 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Snels, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Lodders and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-556]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u364	Mr. Chairman. I will say immediately that we are very struggling with all the questions that lie ahead: questions of trust, questions of implementation. But the most important thing to do is to help all those people quickly, so that we really need to be absolutely clear. The last time, July 4th, we already asked to do something right away. That was five months ago and it's still not there. There is now a proposal and the question is whether there can indeed be a subsidy scheme before 1 January. We saw in the Navy's note that there's plenty of room, so I'd say pick it up, it's winter! Pick up the Navy's note and do it. Mr. Chairman. Which is also clear in English: there's something rotting in the state of Denmark. "Denmark" can be replaced by "the Tax Office." The French would talk about "détournement de pouvoir," abuse of power by the Tax Administration in relation to people. But there is also a failing government in its communication, in making rules, in how it sees citizens as enemies rather than as the infamous customer that everyone should become. That is why we are struggling with the question of whether a motion of censure will help. In any case, we want a parliamentary questioning, and I have a motion for that. By the way, it has to be about more than just the Tax Administration. It should also be about the contacts between the different departments. It is too ludicrous for words that it is now apparent that Social Affairs may not have answered properly and that there was another system that was fired somewhere? I don't think that's possible in this whole file. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that there is a need for a parliamentary questioning to the Tax Office debacle on child care payments wrongly recovered, and calls on the Bureau to ensure that this is done,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-557]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u365	We have chosen this method because it is quicker, faster than a parliamentary survey. This means that parties can be heard under oath and that we can proceed quickly to ensure that we get the answers we have not received. Because that is what I thought was the other demasque of this debate, which we have to wait for a long time for the right answers and for far too much to be done along Article 68 with regard to information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u366	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u367	Mr. Chairman. If legal certainty and legal protection against government decisions are abolished, our society will lose ground. That's how I ended my contribution this morning. We've had a long and emotional debate. The Secretary of State has been slow to react. Action slowly started. But I do see today a Secretary of State who realizes from his toes that there are big problems and that he has to solve them. Parents are now at the forefront of the Christian Union. The parents must now be helped as quickly as possible, in the order of weeks, rather weeks than months. Parents aren't helped as quickly as the Secretary of State would quit. I am therefore pleased to see today that the Secretary of State is willing to give everything to do justice to the victims as quickly as possible. The Christian Union Group is confident that this Secretary of State will be able to resolve the needs of the people here in the gallery, and all the others, as soon as possible. But, Mr. Chairman, the supplement system is completely bankrupt. The system's sick. We gotta get rid of this freak. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Supplementary Scheme was introduced in 2005 to streamline income-dependent schemes in the areas of care, children and residence and to solve cash-in problems;]] [[Whereas this system overestimates the capacity of many citizens and has other associated disadvantages, such as the high non-use of surcharges and the increasing tension between predictability and increasing flexibilisation of labour and forms of society;]] [[whereas our country may therefore be better off without any surcharges;]] [[calls on the government to develop various variants as part of the building blocks for a better tax system and the broad social rethinks, with the supplement system completely disappearing and being replaced by, for example, alternative income-dependent arrangements, (recoverable) tax reductions, decentralisation of supplements and/or increase of the statutory minimum wage and benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-558]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u368	Mr. Chairman. We have had a strong debate with each other today. We are having a solid debate, and not for nothing, because many families have been in trouble, come between the wheels, through government transactions. You don't change the past. I think that's very clear. But you can change the future. What lies ahead here is the question: do we as a Chamber trust that this Secretary of State is the man to lead and draw those changes to the future? At any rate, what does not help is that I really saw that we need to get the answers out, when we are talking about the question of information from the Chamber and especially when we are talking about: if the information had been sent to the Chamber in March, the information that was then requested by colleagues, then we could have discussed this debate six months earlier and we could have worked on a solution six months earlier. Mr. Chairman. I'm not waiting for all kinds of answers on trial and so on. I'm waiting for answers to show that there will be results. My question to the Secretary of State is: has this debate really given him the insight that this is simply not possible again and is he pulling on with all the fibers to make it different in the future? I really want a very clear answer to that question, because that is for me the question that determines whether or not I support Mrs Leijten's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u369	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u370	Mr. Chairman. This has been a very heavy debate. I don't feel like we've made much progress with the Secretary of State. He did far too little, far too late. What is it about directors who think they can fulfil their political responsibility in a new way? "Don't quit, just perform." Where have we heard that before? They spend years on the file themselves, leave reports in their desk drawer and read them far too late. They will not inform the Chamber until we have asked for this information again and again, and then we must pull it out. That's the way it is with this Secretary of State. There are so many abuses and so much abuse of power by the Tax Administration that there is no escape for good people who deserve our protection and should not be dismissed as fraud. I'm quoting the Secretary of State. "It was disproportionate." "There was institutional bias." "An all-or-nothing character." And, "The human measure is totally lacking." But is it about political responsibility? Well, no. It's only about encouraging him to do what he should have done for all these people. Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly support the motion of censure, because this Secretary of State must leave quickly. Real solutions must be sought. We must stop trying to fix a failing system. That's why I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the Secretary of State, it is problematic that the childcare allowance works with advances;]] [[noting that there has often been an ex post payment of too much surcharge, which means that it is necessary to recover funds with potentially very serious consequences, as in the case of the CAF 11 case;]] [[having noted that years of work has been done by public authorities, childcare providers and parents' organisations to prepare for the direct financing of childcare;]] [[Whereas taxpayers' money should not be pumped around, but should reach the final recipients as simply as possible;]] [[calls on the government to introduce direct childcare funding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-559]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u371	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u372	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u373	Thank you, Mr President. It was a spicy debate. It was an emotional debate. And, as previous colleagues have said, it was sometimes difficult. Mr. Chairman. For parents, it was a debate that will not yet be satisfactory. It is about the parents in the CAF 11 case, the other parents and the other parents, let us also mention the people who are working on the host parents' offices. There is not yet the clarity to which these people are entitled. These parents have sent out an important signal. They've lost faith in the government. They've been put up as fraudsters. There's a lot of pain and sadness, we've heard it today, and that's caused by government failure. It takes more than the Tax Phone to restore confidence. The Secretary of State picked that up. Mr. Chairman. The beginning is there, but there are really many more steps to be taken to ensure that situations like this no longer occur. We have talked about culture, about a safe working environment, in which employees in the service can address each other, and about what is most important is a compensation scheme. I still have an answer from the Secretary of State on legal assistance. I assume the Secretary of State will go into that. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Administration has a culture that is too closed, where found abuses do not find their way up;]] [[Whereas fresh eyes and eyes from outside can help to break this closed culture;]] [[calls on the government to put forward proposals in the first quarter in which externals will be watching with the Tax Administration in order to break the closed administrative culture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-560]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u374	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution I have devoted a number of words to the General Administrative Service. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a General Administrative Service (ABD), where top officials rotate through the government;]] [[Whereas this may give rise to the incentive to "promot" ill-functioning officials to other parts of the government;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the functioning of the General Administrative Service, specifically examining how to prevent "disabled" ill-functioning officials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr Bruins and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-561]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u375	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u376	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u377	Thank you, Mr President. I have three motions and one final remark, if time permits. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents or other persons entitled to compensation have been unlawfully treated by the Tax Administration;]] [[noting that it is not reasonable for parents or others if they do not agree with the compensation, once again the only option remains to go to court;]] [[calls on the Government to provide parents or others eligible for compensation with organised participation in the design (including the level and form of mediation, for example) of compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce an intermediate step in which mediation takes place before the injured parties have to go to court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents wish to enter into talks with the Prime Minister;]] [[whereas this request is perfectly reasonable, particularly in view of the misery caused by the Dutch authorities;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to engage with the affected parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-562]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-563]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u378	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is certain that at least a large proportion of the beneficiaries were wrongly designated as "frauders";]] [[noting that this has wrongly identified a large number of people in several systems as "frauders";]] [[calls on the Government to re-evaluate the status of "frauder" as soon as possible to all those who have been granted this status since 2009 as a result of alleged fraud involving childcare allowances, with a view to removing the status of "frauder" as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u379	Finally, Mr President. The tax authority's line was guilty until proven guilty. Evidence to the contrary was and has been made impossible in many cases. I asked the Secretary of State if that was indeed the line. He didn't answer directly. But he actually confirmed it when he said: once in the situation of fraud, you didn't actually have a chance to stay out. Guilty until proven guilty. It can't be. We will therefore support the motion of the SP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u380	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.50 p.m., because there have been 14 motions on which the Secretary of State must give an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u381	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u382	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna get the stuff together real quick. Before I start with some of the answers that I owed to the Chamber and start commenting on the motions, I think it would be good to point out for a moment, even in my second term, that I too think that this is a spicy debate and that it is right and proper. I have indicated in the previews that it was not the intention to allow this to be a good debate, because there has been an incredible amount of wrongdoing here, which I have been thinking about for a long time in my first term. There are now parents here, but they are not the only parents, because after this there are groups of other parents who have been hit by the government's system and have not had a chance to argue against it. That's painful, even for me. I therefore understand that there were questions about political responsibility from the Chamber. Of course, I've thought about the question myself: what are you doing with this? But in the end, I always thought the following was important to me. As long as I could still be a solution or part of the solution instead of the problem, I thought it would be sensible, too, and I still think that it should continue to do so, so that those people who have been waiting for so long can now quickly provide. So, yes, a spicy debate. That was to be expected. It was good that it was spicy. I'll start with a few questions that were still open. I might have missed some more. I'd love to hear that. One of the questions was raised from several points of view and I think Mr Omtzigt asked: is it possible that these people will have a fixed point of contact? We all recognise, apart from the problems of the Tax Phone, that it is just extremely annoying and it doesn't help if you have to explain again and again what is happening. We have also looked at this, and I have said that how best to do that. The best thing we can do is to create a separate telephone number for these childcare allowances. I think we can do that by 1 January. At least we're going to do everything we can to get it done, so that people eventually just have a fixed number where they quickly get to know what the problem is and what the intention is. Can we get one solid person there for everyone, so a one-on-one situation? That's probably gonna be kind of hard because you don't know when people are gonna call. So if it could be one-on-one, I don't know. I hope that will happen in many cases, but it will be difficult to do so in practice. I think the most important thing is that there is a separate number for the people with these problems, so that they can be heard at once about the problems they are experiencing. I think that's really important. We're just gonna put that down on January 1st. Mr Omtzigt also asked questions about the articles that were exactly broken by the Tax Administration. These were three laws, namely the AWR, the Awb and the KOT. Some of these questions are already before the ADR. We are trying to see whether we have an answer to all these questions, but let me say at least the following. If the ADR is unable to answer all these questions, we will address them in our comments on the report. Because I understand the questions. That is also what I want to say to Mr Omtzigt. We're working on it. I hope and believe that a great deal of it is included in the ADR report, but if it is not, I will come back to it in my response. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a not insignificant point, as I say to Mr Stoffer. In the debate there was a misunderstanding between what Mr Stoffer asked me and what I responded to. I think I have understood his question better and clearer in the second term. Mr Stoffer said: you have not always given this information as easily in the past; have you learned that you must? My answer is: yes, I certainly learned that. I would also like to say what I said earlier, namely that if I had had the knowledge we all had in March today, with the questions involved, things would have gone differently and I think it would have been better. That is a little separate from the frustration that was there anyway and that we have shared before, that the information that I need to get out of my service is not always so panic-free for me. So that's just got to be better and I heard you right. I am therefore also saying yes to Mr Stoffer's last question. That is also part of the alertness on those situations that he asked for, and Mr Omtzig also later. I think that's incredibly wise. That is what I am happy to say to him. Then there was a question from Mrs Lodder about the flat-rate legal assistance. I told you to come back to this. From the loose wrist I said what I thought the arrangement was like, but unfortunately I wasn't quite right. We are initially following Donner's arrangement. He advises a flat-rate fee. The reason for this is that there has to be equality for everyone, no matter what the cost to your lawyer. But we did fill out that flat-rate fee. This works with weighting factors whose gravity we have weighed to the maximum. A weighting factor has been applied twice. It remains within that arrangement that if you do not agree with what is coming out of Donner's proposal, there will still be the possibility of doing something about it. We shall be looking forward to that and encouragingly. But the scheme itself states that it is important that there is equality of law between people who had the same problems, but who have had a different cost pattern for defending themselves. I think Donner did it on purpose. We'll follow that. But when people say that they've had really demonstrably different costs, I still think that should also be part of the process we've described before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u383	Have you answered all the questions you would come back to in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u384	I think so, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u385	I'll go see Mrs. Leijten first. If a question has remained, you may ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u386	There's not a bit of a question left. I've asked for additional information, which hasn't come and which we know there is. So we cannot see at all whether the Secretary of State is on the right track with the investigation. The Secretary of State now says, under pressure from Mr Stoffer and Mr Omtzigt, that he should have seen these files better in March, but that is also true for September. Then, with the analysis on the table, he just didn't ask for broader problems than just those seventeen studies under CAF 11, did he? Isn't that true for that moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u387	You asked that first question in your first term; that's right. I give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond to the second question, but we are not going to have the debate again, because I think everything has been said. Conclusions have been drawn and motions have been tabled. So I would also like to see the Secretary of State's assessment of the motions. And Mrs. Lodders also has a question, I see. First, Mrs Leijten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u388	In fact, Mrs Leijten is right that we still have lists, following a Twitter message. I assume that Mrs Leijten would like an answer to that question. We just checked. It's actually two lists. The first list is a list of those 170 CAF cases, which indeed went to the ADR. That's just a list. I'd like to share that with the Chamber, too. I told you before, it's 170. The second list is a list of poignant cases. This is from a report from the Mt of 3 September last. That is not a list of individual cases, but actually an overview that has been requested and included in the ibo working group in consultation with SZW. We have been asked how painful situations can be in view of the current state of the legislation, for example through such an all-or-nothing situation. One of those things about the all-or-nothing situation comes out. These are situations that may be poignant under current legislation. A list has been made of this. I think this list went to the ADR. I think we can share this list with the Chamber. But it is not an individual case in which a or b happened, but imaginable distressing situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u389	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u390	So we are having the big debate here about what has happened and what we are going to do for the future and what is the outcome? We're still getting additional information that was available. I find this very distinctive. I want those lists, because from all those people who have come to the hotline, I can check that they have everything under that distress, not at the human level, but at the situation level. And if you don't, I know where to find you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u391	The Secretary of State has undertaken to send that list to the Chamber. Then I'll go to Mrs. Lodder's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u392	Can I just say one more thing? Mrs Leijten is asking for this now, and today we have the answer that we are giving that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u393	Mrs. Lodders. No, Mrs. Leijten, I'm sorry. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u394	Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State on legal assistance. I assume that, given their specific situation, people who think they really do not have enough can report to the number announced by the Secretary of State in order to see how they can take the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u395	Yeah, that doesn't have to be just that number. So it can also be done in the whole process that we are going through with these parents anyway. In it, they can indicate that they see the arrangement, but that they still do not find it sufficient. Then they can report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u396	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u397	I feel like I've answered all the questions, so I'm going to move on to the motions. That's some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u398	Fourteen, but not all motions are addressed to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u399	I will not judge the motions that are not addressed to me, because I am not being asked to do so. But we're going to see them. Let's start with the motion in part no. 551. It's about the parents who suffered more damage. The question is whether we want to do something about it. It also states that we must ensure that it is simple and that instead of more 'we against them' there must be a'side by side'. I think that is a good idea and give judgment to the Chamber. The same is true of the motion in part No. 552 on the preliminary reports accompanying this report. For that, too, I would like to say to the Court of Justice. In the motions on pieces no. 553, 554 and 555 haven't been asked. In the motion in part No. 556 I'll be asked another question. The request is to send a letter before Christmas on how best to do it and how to do it as soon as possible. In the debate, I think I have already said that I think this is very important. So here too I like to give the judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 557 doesn't ask me. On the motion in part No. 558 we have a little puzzled, I say towards Mr Bruins. I actually agree with all the considerations, observations and requests. I'm gonna go ahead and say it's gonna be a judgment room. But I would like to say that he is referring here to a building block journey. This is a separate response path that deals with the tax elements in our system. Of course, surcharges have a relation to taxes, but the policy responsibility lies with me, for example, on taxes, but not on the surcharges. If I may read it in such a way that, in the context of the ibo-travels and what follows from them, we are moving forward and not waiting, then I will say Chamber judgment anyway. I told you, but I just wanted to make it clear that there was a bit of a difference between the building blocks and the ibo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u400	I'm aware of that. The task of the ibo surcharges is to see if the surcharge system can be improved. I said in my contribution that that thing, that freak, has to go. This means that the building block journey must also take into account that there may not be any surcharges in the future. So it does not need to be improved, but something else has to be replaced. If the link between the building blocks and the ibo surcharges can be made in this way, the Secretary of State may interpret it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u401	Clear. Now I understand better. Then I come to the motion on part No. 559 which calls on the government to introduce direct childcare funding. We thought about this for a while at the beginning of the cabinet period. We weighed that. In the end, this is the policy responsibility of Social Affairs and Employment. The cabinet finally decided that was not a good idea. So that is not what was chosen, and that is why I will not recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 560 over the eyes from the outside. We have talked about this for a moment. Mrs Lodders has tightened that up a little bit. I think it's very good that we're gonna do that. Here, too, I'd like to give the judgment Chamber. In the motion in part No. 561 the government is invited to examine the functioning of the ABD. In fact, I am not in any way responsible for this. The Minister of BZK is about the ABD. We also have people who come from the ABD, of course, relatively little if you compare this with other parts. I could imagine that is also my request for Mrs Lodders to hold the motion until a time when the Minister for Foreign Affairs can also give his opinion on it. That is my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u402	Mrs. Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u403	I'll hold the motion and ask BZK for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u404	At the request of Mrs Lodders, I propose her motion (31066, No. 561) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u405	Then I come to the motion on part No. 562 by Mr Van Raan. It is in a way similar to the motion tabled in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 551 has been tabled, on how we can easily make it work for the parents who do not yet agree with the compensation scheme and who want something else. Unlike the motion in part No. 551, on which I have given the judgment Chamber, will be in the motion in part No. 562 actually already opted for a certain option. I don't want to do that. I really want to come up with a proposal to do that. This motion is already building something. For that reason, I will discourage this motion. That is not the case with the motion in part No. 563. It indirectly invites the Prime Minister to talk to the affected parents. I think that, knowing the Prime Minister, I would like to give the Chamber's opinion on this, because I am convinced that he will certainly be open to it. I shall now turn to the last motion by Mr Van Raan on item No. 564. We can apply a great deal of technique to what exactly is the definition of "frauder" and what is not, but I fully understand the intention behind it, namely to change the miserable definition we used earlier, or at least in the language used. I will therefore give the judgment Chamber for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u406	A brief question on the motion for a resolution in part No. 562. We agree that not agreeing to compensation should not lead directly to a court-martial. That is also what the motion is about. I chose "a form of mediation" in the motion. I think that's what the Secretary of State means when he says that a form has already been chosen. If that word stands in the way of the Court's judgment, I am, of course, prepared to choose another word for it. It is a question of introducing an intermediate step and also of exchanging views with the parent group. I don't hang on to the word "mediation" or that form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u407	You did say that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u408	I am not going to go over it, but Mr Van Raan could then see if he feels at home with the motion in part No. 551. It calls for it to be as simple as possible in a broad sense. It is not just about mediation and the outcome, but about trying to do it more side by side. The feeling of "she against us" has to come off. I have said: I think that is a good idea; I want to do so. With the motion in part No. 562 we're really going to pre-sort on steps. That is why I am giving the motion in part No. 551 judgment room and I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u409	You are free, Mr. Van Raan, to put the motion to the vote. I want to... I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u410	Can I make one more comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u411	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u412	I imagine I'll cancel the last request. The motion in part No. 551 does not mention the fact that parents and other people have a form of participation. I can imagine that I would delete the second request, but join with the motion in part No. 551 and we'll leave one at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u413	I gave an opinion on the motion in part No. 551.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u414	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u415	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u416	Thank you. That concludes this debate. A motion of censure has been tabled. If there is no objection, it is customary to vote on it. I still see the parents sitting in the public gallery. You've been here since 10:15 today, so you've been following this debate all day. I am sure that even more parents who could not be here today could have followed this debate in one way or another. It has already been said throughout the Chamber: it was an emotional and loaded debate that directly affects you. I hope this debate has helped you a little bit. So I hope you're going home tonight with a little hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-6.u417	I shall now suspend the meeting for ten minutes. Then we'll vote.
