ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We shall begin today with Mr Van Weyenberg's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for Finance, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about cancer patients who cannot take out death insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Dutch Federation of Cancer Patient Organisations made a very good proposal on D66: make sure that people who have been cured of cancer get a clean slate after a few years, so that they can just insure themselves and buy a house. Too often they are refused insurance or have to pay a huge premium for it. Cancer you sign for your whole life, but if you can't buy a house after that because you're denied insurance, then that's cru. We can do something about that. Mr. Chairman. France and Belgium have preceded us. France and Belgium have a law which states that after a number of years the history of having cancer must no longer be taken into account by the insurer. I was glad that insurers said yesterday: we can see that. So I have a very specific question for this Minister. Is he prepared to send a bill to the Chamber to ensure that Dutch cancer patients, but also people with a number of other chronic diseases, can just get insurance after a few years if the chance of the disease returning is very small? Then we can solve this injustice, because that is what it is, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr President, thank you. This is of course an extremely sad subject, because this is about a disease that unfortunately we all have to deal with in our very close vicinity in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, it is also perfectly right that the Chamber should draw attention to this, precisely because, if I may put it that way, who is out of this rotten disease deserves to be able to move forward. Because what exactly is going on here? In the event that Mr Van Weyenberg just described, the insurance is not as you would like it to be. And that's not okay. The good news is that the insurers themselves see this problem, as Mr Van Weyenberg referred to it. They want to look at a solution. As far as I am concerned, we have to solve this problem, left-hand or right-hand, and if that is necessary also through myself and through legislation. I want to talk to the insurance companies myself to see if they can fix this themselves. If not, I want to come up with legislation. I would like to inform the Chamber before the end of this year what that first section looks like and thus also answer the question of whether the second part of the section is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	I welcome this very benevolent response from the Minister, who frankly does not surprise me. I think it would be wise for us to assume our responsibilities as politicians. I'm very happy that insurers say they see this problem, but let's settle it legally. It's possible. I would like to hand over two laws to the Minister, the Belgian and French laws. The French is already in operation and I believe that the Belgian will enter into force on 1 January. It's laws that simply regulate this clean slate. I think it's okay to talk to insurance companies, but as far as I'm concerned, we should ask them to help us make that law. Is the Minister prepared to have that conversation soon? I'm very curious about that. And is he willing to put it in the law anyway? Could he perhaps send the reaction of the insurers in that conversation to the Chamber a little earlier, including a description of how he intends to resolve this? Because if the cabinet does not give up legislation, D66 itself will come up with an initiative law. But when I hear this, I don't need to. The Minister can make much more rapid progress than I can as an individual MP. So I would like to have another reaction to the question whether the Minister really wants to make that law anyway. I think he already has the support of the insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Van Weyenberg says that we must assume our political responsibility. I very much agree. At the same time, I do not want to conduct politics on this issue either. So I want to do what's best for patients who are former patients, I have to say at as much speed as possible. That's why I'd like to have a moment to see what's most effective. I hope, with Mr Van Weyenberg's understanding, that I have not read the French and Belgian laws down to the last letter. I think it's a good thing we're looking at what's most effective to solve the problem. If the answer is that through legislation, then I will not hesitate to do so in the very short term. I said "before the end of this calendar year." Frankly, that is quite fast, because we still have less than three months to go, at least in political terms. If we can do it any faster, I'll do it even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	That's good. It's complex legislation to make. I've just passed two laws to the Minister; they're thick, too, because one type of cancer takes a little longer to get back almost as much as you get it or I get it as others. It's complicated. I think we can learn a great deal from those laws in France and Belgium, also about the fact that you can bring along a number of other chronic diseases. I'm just assuming we're gonna work this out with each other: politics, chamber and cabinet. I'd like to wait for that letter before December 1st, I'm sorry, for January 1st or sooner if that's possible. As far as D66 is concerned, this leads to legislation. I think that is a very powerful signal. We are talking about 800,000 people who have recovered from cancer or who have cancer. They are increasingly benefiting from the science, which fortunately in this country is getting smarter and our doctors, who have better and better treatments. The scar of their disease must not also have this kind of unacceptable social consequences. I look forward to the Minister's letter, which, as far as I am concerned, will contain a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	Firstly, I hope for very broad support for this initiative. It's good we're gonna do this. A lot of us will have experienced this at close range. I would be sorry if we narrowed the discussion down to a death risk insurance, because it is a lot more. I am thinking, for example, of disability insurance, which is also very important for many people in these circumstances. I hope that the Minister will look more broadly, not only at cancer-related diseases, but also at other diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	Exactly this type of question went through my head yesterday with that message of course. What is just not acceptable is that if people have happened to this and they are finally cured of it, they are then faced with this kind of problem. The next question that comes to mind is: what would it be like with people with similar diseases? What do you think about related insurance? I would also like to take this into account in the dialogue. However, I would like to ask the Chamber if I could sort that out and discuss the full palette with the insurers. It also does justice to the people who it is. I'm very motivated to do that, but I do want to do it in a decent, good way, just to prevent us from finding out later that we've forgotten a group or a type of insurance. I really want to study on that width for a little longer than the last 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	It is also about people who want a mortgage. I do not believe that banks can impose a requirement for death risk insurance when taking out a mortgage. The new mortgage rules have already minimized the risks to the banks, so can the minister also look at the banks? They all make demands on death risk insurance, whereas they are officially not allowed to do so under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Van Weyenberg did not mention it, but the discussion also dealt with the possibility of obtaining a mortgage. In any case, I have understood the question in this way, and so should my answer, as well as taking it with me, implying the thunderstorm that you can apparently get at the moment you try to take out a mortgage. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	As you can see last week, the PvdA wants to have quite strong opposition, but not at this point. I think that the Minister simply gave good answers to the questions put by Mr Van Weyenberg. I have two more requests. Is the Minister prepared to look not only at the availability of insurance, but also at the price to be paid, the insurance premium? Because, of course, there is also a differentiation in this. If you're sick and you have to pay the grand prize all the time, that's not fair. Does he also want all the diseases called for by the VVD, but I ask again if they are chronically involved? Because it's not just about cancer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	That point of that price that Mr Nijboer is asking for is, of course, exactly what you need to know. Because if that insurance is there, but you have to pay an unpaid amount for it, you're right where you were: you still can't take out that insurance. So the answer to that is absolutely yes. Then the second. I have just said that I would very much like to see what is more widely possible, because unfortunately cancer is not the only disease that many people are struggling with. There are also other things that are extremely profound and, fortunately, people are recovering from these days, but where there is a similar problem. So the answer is yes, but I have to say quite frankly that it is not the beginning of an idea of what is a sensible framework and whether it should be made. So I'd like to study on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u15	Let me start by saying that it is very good that the cabinet is picking this up, because it is a big problem and that needs to be solved. However, I cannot put my anger aside immediately, because six out of ten ex-cancer patients indicate that they are unable to take out death insurance. So six out of ten people who have won the toughest battle of their lives and want to continue, who want to make a next step, are stopped by commercial companies because of financial interests. What is the Minister's opinion on this? What is he going to say about this to the insurers in the talks he's going to have about the diseased culture in those insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u16	Let me pretend for once that the glass is half full. The good news is we're getting better and better at doing something about this fucking disease. The insurers have no role in that, and I certainly don't. This disease is mentioned in a well-known book "the emperor of all maladies," the emperor of all diseases, because nothing has killed so many people. The good news is that in many cases cancer is overcome nowadays, people can survive that. That's incredibly good news. The other piece of good news is that insurers really want to do something about it. With this mission and with this union, I suggest that I get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u17	I would like to add one more element to that unity, namely supplementary insurance. Where no risk selection may be applied for basic insurance, this is done for supplementary insurance, directly or indirectly through price. I can only assume that this will also be looked at within that broad range of insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u18	I'd certainly like to look into that, but I can't be sure about it right now. I just haven't been able to orientate myself on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you also to the questioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you. We shall now proceed to oral Question Time. According to our list, Mr Kops should now put a question on behalf of the PVV to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, but he is not there yet.
