ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the bill Tax Arbitration Act. I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance from the cabinet. Five speakers have spoken for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	We'll start with Mrs. Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has tax treaties with many countries. That is a great asset and of added value. This is of added value for the entrepreneur who does business in the border region with Germany or Belgium or for the entrepreneur who does business worldwide. It is just as important for people who live in the Netherlands, but work for a company abroad or for people who live abroad, but have their income in the Netherlands. Tax treaties must ensure that people and entrepreneurs do not pay double taxation. Some countries interpret the conventions just as differently from what they are intended or, for whatever reason, tax is levied, while others also pay taxes in the Netherlands. If a dispute arises, you can expect the Dutch Tax Administration to talk to the country in question and come to a solution. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I have several examples in which a solution to a dispute is lacking. People will be in uncertainty for years. In some cases, this leads to major financial problems, with all its consequences, such as consequences for their families or even the end of a business. The law we are discussing today, the Tax Arbitration Act, must provide a solution to these problems. In a dispute over a tax treaty between two countries, the countries first consult each other. If both countries, i.e. the tax authorities, do not come out or if this takes too long, an interested party may rely on binding arbitration. This law is a European directive, which applies to the European Member States. That means that this law can be an important stick for a number of people. First there's a meeting. If Member States do not come out, binding arbitration can be called upon. As I indicated, there are many poignant examples. A family. Man works as an international truck driver for a Norwegian company based in Norway. This family logically pays tax on the work in Norway to the Norwegian tax authorities. The family also pays taxes in Norway on the work carried out in countries other than Norway. The Netherlands sees that differently. The Dutch Tax Administration wants this truck driver to pay tax in the Netherlands on the income obtained from work in countries other than Norway. The truck driver must keep an accurate record of where and for how long he worked. Every hour outside of Norway must arrive at the Dutch Tax Administration. The Dutch and Norwegian tax authorities have made an appointment for this family for several years, but since 2014 these people have to solve this themselves. I think this is a poignant situation. This example is not in itself. Families in the same situation have to do with bailiffs and financial problems. Parents are separated from one of the families in order to keep their heads above water. Secretary of State, this isn't how we'd want to hang out with each other, is it? Mr. Chairman. The annoying thing about these cases is that the present law offers no solution for these people. I have already asked written questions about these cases, but I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State what he can do for these people. Another example: a man with a one-man business. He lives in Belgium. Office in the Netherlands. He did his work from the office in the Netherlands and had activities only in the Netherlands. The Belgian tax authorities want to levy the tax because according to the Belgian tax authorities the one-man business was located at the man's home address in Belgium. The total tax burden was around 100%. This gentleman was so desperate he wanted to quit his business. After a procedure of about two years, a solution has been found for this gentleman. The Netherlands has withdrawn, which in itself is strange because the activities took place in the Netherlands, but for this gentleman the double taxation was solved. That brings me to the question of how many disputes there have been in the last ten years and with which Member States. And can the Secretary of State give an overview of the areas in which these disputes existed and how these disputes have been brought to an end? How often has the Netherlands waived a levy? What amounts are involved and how does the balance sheet work for the Netherlands? These questions are relevant, as the legislative proposal, in anticipation of binding arbitration, allows for agreement between Member States. If the Netherlands throws in the towel too quickly, it is not convenient from the Dutch treasury. This does, however, provide a solution for the people concerned. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there are other examples. It goes too far to bring these all forward. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he treats Dutch people who run into problems in these cases. Can these people count on the support of the Tax Administration, with the help of a solution to the problems? Mr. Chairman. The options in the Directive are limited. The VVD supports the chosen line of wider access to arbitration. Not only in cases of double taxation but also in other disputes, it is important that people have a view of solving their problem. It certainly shouldn't affect whether you, as an individual, run into problems as an example of the Belgian entrepreneur in the Netherlands or as a small group of injured people. These people are entitled to assistance in solving problems. My group also supports the refusal of arbitration in cases of detected tax fraud. By the way, I'm still curious how that works out. Perhaps the Secretary of State could say a little bit more about that: is that a one-time thing or does that work for a longer period? Mr. Chairman. I would advise my group to vote in favour of this law. For many people, the law can act as a closing point in a dispute. Moreover, I believe that binding arbitration should be used as little as possible and that problems should be addressed at an early stage. Can the Secretary of State undertake to monitor the use and use of binding arbitration and to inform the Chamber thereof? Therefore, for families where the man works as an international truck driver at a Norwegian company, this law will not provide a solution, but I ask the Secretary of State for the promise that he will enter into a short-term discussion and resolve the problem of these people and that he will inform the Chamber before the end of this year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. Let us now listen to Mrs Leijten of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Tax Arbitration Act before us is an instrument to help small businesses and self-employed people who are in danger of becoming entangled between tax laws in several countries. We would like to design this instrument as well as possible to prevent it from being taken away by the sharks of professional tax advisory practice and the financial sector, which are lurking as far as we are concerned. We see the usefulness of this law. For example, we know the case of Dutch athletes and musicians who pay taxes both in the source country, i.e. in the country where they earn their money, and in their home country, in the Netherlands. Foreign athletes sometimes don't pay taxes. The Netherlands is thus burdening sportsmen and musicians in their home country and most European countries do so in the source country. For some time now this has led to a fuss among athletes and musicians and their representatives. We need to fix that. We assume that this tax arbitration can provide a solution to these kinds of issues. Is that how the Secretary of State sees it? We would particularly like to draw attention to the wider context of measures in which this tax arbitration committee is introduced, namely the measures of the European Union and of the OECD aimed at combating tax avoidance and basic erosion. Because of this, tax systems in different countries are more interrelated, one part of the measures is to set up a committee where stakeholders read: taxpayers can go if they feel that they are wronged by the alignment of these tax systems or by a lack of coordination. A problem other than the high or unjustified levy due to the failure to align different systems seems to us to be that little or no tax is levied where people or companies in several countries are liable to tax. For example, the Netherlands is the tax haven for American multinationals which have parked 477 billion in profits above the ocean via the CV/e.g. structure and which are not subject to tax in the Netherlands and not in the United States either. And now that the European Union, just before launching an investigation into illegal state aid, has decided to turn its back on this construction by 2020, these multinationals have already found their next escape route for that money, namely informal capital. We talked about it last night in a general discussion. The point is that if you cut them off for tax avoidance, they will always find a new pass to avoid the same tax. Last week, Oxfam Novib pointed out that this involved 5 billion to 10 billion worldwide on an annual basis. Would it be possible, in addition to the taxpayer, to grant a taxlifter access to a tax arbitration committee if it believes that there is a right to tax and that it is unjustly not getting tax due to a mismatch between international tax laws, we ask. Because we also believe that taxlifters are stakeholders, whether they operate on behalf of other stakeholders, namely people and companies who pay taxes and who have to pay higher taxes because others do not pay them. How does the Secretary of State see that? I have a few specific questions. In addition to this arbitration board, can you just go to the welfare court? What steps does a person or an organisation have to take in order to be able to contact this arbitration committee? Are the Committee's rulings in a case individual rulings or do they have precedents? I read in the explanatory statement that there is no precedent, but what about the legal certainty of someone who has exactly the same case? Does it have to go all the way down that road to get the right? To be honest, that seems to me to be an unnecessary job. How does the Secretary of State view this? Would it not also be a good idea to periodically analyse the issues before or before an arbitration committee and how they have ended? We can then draw lessons from this, for example, where our legislation or the implementation of our laws can be simplified or perhaps more stringent. Would the Secretary of State be willing to do such a thing? It is no secret that tax advisory practice in the Netherlands is a thriving sector, which "optimizes" the tax contribution. This means, in ordinary people's language, that multinationals do not pay taxes. With the application of this law, they have a new instrument in their hands to further develop the international tax arrangements to their advantage. We think it would be a good idea for the government to introduce the second part of the directive, precisely for this reason. As Mrs Lodders said, if you are known for tax fraud, you will not have access to the arbitration committee. But if you have a case that is not about double taxation but, for example, about what your company looks like and whether you can make optimal use of tax systems, then the Arbitration Committee is not the committee that these organisations and companies should call upon. They already have an advisory practice of tax advisors that they can rely on. They can already check with the Tax Administration whether their construction is lawful and whether they are given a ruling. Then you shouldn't open up that arbitration board to that, too. 'Cause let's not be naive. As far as the financial sector is concerned, it simply does or uses anything that is not prohibited by law. That's why banks gamble with savers' savings, because nowhere in the law says that they shouldn't. That is why they make totally incomprehensible financial products, which can seriously harm the real economy. For example, today there was news about small start-ups falling into the claws of so-called well-intentioned crowdfunding companies, because crowdfunding is a financial product that is actually leading them into bankruptcy. We see that these financial products can seriously disrupt the real economy. Nowhere does the law say it can't be done, so the financial sector says: then we do it. This also applies to tax advisory practice. We had Shell's tax advisor here last week. He explained on the radio why Shell doesn't pay taxes. Then he says, "If you give advice to a company as an advisor and if that means that company has to pay taxes, then you haven't done well, then you have to go back to school." That's the moral of tax advisory practice. If they also get the tax arbitration committee as a new tool to explore borders that they can or can't overcome in order to avoid tax, I think we are doing the wrong thing, because the origin of this instrument is more cooperation to combat tax avoidance. How does the Secretary of State view this? You can say that in the explanatory statement and in the answers to questions put by GroenLinks and other groups in the legal process, we see that it is not the intention or intention of the law to use it for this purpose, but yes, the tax advisors come to us with smug faces: it does not say in the law that it is not allowed, so it is allowed; then you have to make better laws. That's what they say. Well, we're making a law today. According to the SP, we're making the law better by putting a stop to this. If you come to the tax arbitration committee with the aim of exploring borders to further expand the basis, we say: ho, stop, he's not for that, on the contrary; we don't want that at all, you shouldn't use it for that. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect. At first, that was the amendment to item No. 8. Following advice from the Ministry on how to improve the legal situation, the number has been changed. It is now the amendment to item No. 9. I'd like to get a positive answer to this. Last year we talked to the Minister of Finance about the Supervisory Trust Office Act. The law set out very clearly what a trust office had to do to determine whether the customer they served was in good faith and whether the money was not from crime or terrorism or would go to terrorism. They had to have been in contact so many times, they had to have asked for it, but it didn't say that you didn't do the service if you didn't do all that. We have put that in the law, because you will be told otherwise: we have gone through all the steps and we have entered into the service, because there is nowhere that is not allowed. We in the Chamber have said that if you go through all these steps and do not get out of them, you must not engage in the service. So you have to make those laws much sharper and say: there really is a hard limit here. That is my firm belief and hence the amendment. Finally, on how we pay the Arbitration Committee. I agree that you should be able to report there when you have a dispute arising out of laws and about paying taxes. Mrs Lodders has already given a number of examples of how painful that can be. That's a government service, but it's possible to recover certain litigation costs at the time you withdraw or lose a case. I do not want to harm the small businessman, the worker in the border region or the musicians or athletes I was talking about, but if a large multinational company with an army of lawyers and an army of tax advisors spends tens of thousands of euros, sometimes even hundreds of thousands of euros in order not to pay taxes as optimally as possible, I really do not like the fact that such a company can use such an arbitration committee for free. How does the Secretary of State view this? Do you think there's any way to set a line? At the size of company or organization X we say that you have to pay the cost of the proceedings if you withdraw or lose a case. I would actually like to look at such an instrument. So let's make this law work for the people you give it to, who need it, who can also use it as a crowbar, but let's not let this law land right away between the teeth of that tax advice practice and the financial sector. That's my call for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. Mr Mulder of the PVV will now speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	The Tax Arbitration Act brings legal protection and legal certainty. This arbitration directive allows an interested party to enforce arbitration in certain cases. Mr. Chairman. A law that contributes to reducing the risk of paying double taxation is good. I would therefore ask my group to support this law. The PVV still has two questions for the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State promise that there will soon be no arbitration institute in Brussels, you know with directors, expensive patsers and many D66 officers and spokesmen? Two: is this law also applicable to the disputes that are currently arising now that several countries have already and unilaterally introduced or are going to introduce a digitaks? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. That was smooth. Then we continue with Mr. Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the draft tax arbitration bill, which is the elaboration of the European Arbitration Directive. In particular, the legislative proposal is procedural and formal in nature and has as its main objective the introduction of a procedure allowing interested parties within the EU to enforce arbitration in certain cases. My group will support this bill, because it is good to have good procedures if stakeholders, both natural persons and companies, are disadvantaged. However, I still have questions about the choices made by the cabinet. Part of this has also been discussed in the written report, but it is good to bring it up in plenary. Firstly, I note that the Court is still not really aware of how other Member States have dealt with the Member States' options. A number of groups have already asked written questions about this. In addition, last year, the Chamber adopted a motion for a resolution which I worked hard on, calling on the government to better understand the European playing field: what Member State options do other countries choose? I must say, however, that I am disappointed by the way in which this motion is finally carried out by the cabinet over and over again. In a few weeks' time, this directive will have to be implemented everywhere. Surely it should be possible for the Cabinet to provide more insight into the way in which other Member States deal with the Member States' options? I believe that this is relevant, because it is only when we see the trade-offs made in other countries that we can make a good assessment of the choices made by the cabinet. Let me give you some examples of this. A Member State may refuse access to the arbitration board if a dispute does not concern double taxation. There's some logic in that. However, the government does not accept this option because of the principle that all disputes relating to tax treaties should be resolved. I certainly see some logic in that too. In my opinion, it was D66 who asked in writing: did this Member State option not come into being correctly in order to prevent us from tackling double non-taxation? In my opinion, this question has still not been answered clearly. I shall put it again in this debate. Would it not be better if the Netherlands did make use of this Member State option, so that we are sure that there will only be an arbitration committee if people have actually paid double taxation? I see Mrs Leijten at the interrupting microphone. I assume she's going to ask questions about this. My answer in advance to Mrs Leijten is that I agree with a large part of her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mrs Leijten, I hope the grass hasn't been mowed away at your feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Those two options are about when the Arbitration Committee can refuse. So it is not an obligation to refuse. But yes, when a company with an army of tax advisors and lawyers walks in, like "hello, we want something," and it is obvious that it is about base erosion and border exploration, they can say: sorry, but we are not for that. And that's what you want, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	No. I listened carefully to your story and looked at your amendment. I certainly have sympathy for that, but at the same time I would also like the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	So my answer in advance was pretty accurate, I think. Mr. Chairman. The second Member State option allows the government to refuse access to the Arbitration Committee if sanctions have been imposed on an interested party in relation to corrected income or ability for tax fraud, intentional negligence or gross negligence. The government chooses to apply this Member State option only to criminal sanctions. Why does the government not find a tax fine justified in refusing an application for arbitration? Other Member States consider it fair to provide that people who have received administrative penalties will then no longer have a chance to challenge possible double taxation. Here too, of course, there are ifs and buts, but here, too, it is relevant why other Member States seem to have made a different choice. Which countries are these and what arguments are then used in other Member States? Then I have one more question about the cost story. Mrs Leijten also made an interesting point about this. The Directive states that the costs of procedural acts are, in principle, shared equally between the Member States and that Member States can recover the costs from the interested party. The OECD Model Convention shall be based on the principle that each party to the arbitration proceedings, including the interested party, shall bear the costs to which that party may have its own influence. And yet the government does not want to use these opportunities to possibly recover costs from stakeholders and to try to convince other Member States not to. Yesterday we had a bit of a similar debate on the fee at the rulings. Here too, ifs and buts are on again. We do not want to set thresholds for people who are right to exercise their rights; I also fully agree with Mrs Leijten on this. At the same time, there is certainly an argument to come up with and to consider why it is fair that costs should be recovered. In this case, why does the cabinet choose to do so, even with the message that it is going to appeal to other countries, so that no thresholds are really raised at all? Let me ask you a few questions about the financial consequences of the bill. The execution test states that there are only incidental execution costs of €380,000. Before 2018, the counter had already arrived at 366 requests. How much money has the Dutch Tax Administration had to give back in recent years because of double taxation? If we expect procedures to be made easier now, will this not lead to lower tax revenues due to a higher number of refunds and, if so, has this been taken into account in the budgetary estimates? Mr President, finally, something more philosophical in nature. In the case of double taxation, stakeholders will be heard, especially when it comes to large companies with tax experts and advisors. It will therefore be easier to use the arbitration committees. On the other hand, we also know that the Netherlands has a large tax treaty network and that double non-taxation can sometimes be an undesirable consequence of that. Does the Secretary of State have any figures on this? How does the number of cases of double non-taxation relate to cases of double taxation? Why is there actually a somewhat more philosophical issue, and doesn't Mrs Leijten's questions include a hotline or an arbitration committee for cases of double non-taxation for the Tax Office or civil society organisations? Because in the end, as a society, we are all doomed when there is double non-taxation. I understand that it is not part of this bill, but I hope that this cabinet will continue to fulfil its priority in order to avoid double non-taxation. I'd like a reflection from the Secretary of State on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. Finally, we are going to listen from the side of the Chamber to Mr Omtzigt's contribution on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had an interesting hearing in this Chamber on whether multinationals are paying profit tax on profits obtained in the Netherlands. This bill is a little bit about the other side. The balance sheet is always how you make someone pay tax once, so not twice and not zero times. Mrs Lodders just had some very nasty examples of truck drivers in Norway paying double taxes. Several members of the Chamber have asked questions about Rhine sailors who have to pay social security contributions twice de facto. Every country says they're right and they're crushed between bureaucracy. Some companies seem to fall slightly below that factor, let's just say. So I think it would be a good idea, apart from what this bill is about, to have a committee look at what would be a fair form of taxation for these multinationals. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to reflect on that. Companies dealing with several countries have to pay profit tax in both or several countries. This cannot be sustained by a company, but citizens can also be the victims of it. For example, a Dutchman who worked in Poland and receives a pension from Poland. Both countries claim to be entitled to tax on that pension. Then you can imagine that there is very little left of that pension and that people can get into financial trouble. In this respect, I would like to respond not only to that Polish example, but also to the example we have seen in practice of Dutch residents living in Belgium and having an ABP pension, where at some point there was a conflict between the Dutch and the Belgian authorities as to whether the ABP pension or the levy had to be done by the Netherlands or Belgium and both tax administrations were so kind as to send these people an attack. How does that work out here? In such cases, you can of course object to the attack, but if the judges in both countries agree with their own tax authorities, that does not help you very much. The mutual consultation procedure then provides a solution. Taxpayers can force the two countries to fight out which country is allowed to levy taxes, and it is very important that any country should not. In the Netherlands this almost always provides a solution, but unfortunately not always. I know the example of a company with problems in France, where the Netherlands has stopped the consultation procedure because according to the Dutch Tax Administration France took too bizarre views. The two of you are gonna be completely jammed. With this law there will be compulsory arbitration and there will always be a solution for the taxpayer. I think that aspect of this law is very positive. And to my PVV colleague I would like to say that he forgot that this is the result of European legislation, which can sometimes be positive and is embraced warmly. That's kind of nice. However, I do have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. What guarantees are there that the Arbitration Committee is completely independent and qualified to take a decision? Will it not be very complicated for individuals and small businesses if they have to choose between three types of arbitration, namely the Arbitration Directive, the EU Arbitration Convention and arbitration under a tax convention? Why hasn't one good arbitration route been chosen? Is there any form of streamlining in that at some point? How are taxpayers informed about the different possibilities for consultation and the differences between them? For such a taxpayer, especially if it is a small company or individual, does not usually know the way around this maze. In what cases is the mutual consultation procedure for a taxable person more favourable than the route of the Arbitration Directive? And the cabinet expects more arbitration cases and therefore additional work due to this law, but no additional FTEs are needed at the Tax Office. Can that both be true? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. Then we'll suspend until 11:00. Then we will listen to the answer of the Secretary of State in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	The next item is the answer by the Secretary of State for Finance in the first term because of the Tax Arbitration Act. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. I quickly tried to organize the papers a bit and tried my best to use a number of cubes for this answer. It might be useful for me to announce it right now, so that we know what order we're going to follow. First of all, I would like to put in general terms what was the intention of the legislative proposal, why we consider it so important and what the improvements are compared to the practice. Then I will try to answer one or two questions from Members in general. Then I will deal with the more specific questions, for example about the Member State options, the figures on arbitration practice and the composition of the arbitration committee. Then it's about the cost. Then there was a small block on double non-taxation, which two questions were asked about. And, as usual, there is still the other block, but that too is relatively short. They are all short cubes, but then we have something of a sequence in the whole. Having said that, I shall begin quickly, perhaps simply by concluding that, as far as I am concerned, it is also a pleasure to be able to talk to your Chamber today about this bill and to thank Members for their questions. The legislative proposal therefore refers to the implementation of the so-called arbitration directive. The coming of this directive will further strengthen arbitration in international tax law within the EU. Fortunately, as your Chamber noted, that is a good thing. I will, of course, explain this further. In fiscal matters, the Dutch commitment has been for years to avoid double taxation as much as possible. People, citizens, businesses, large businesses, small businesses, anyone can deal with it, and it is really up to us to ensure that those people get a solution. An important step is to make arbitration possible, so to speak, as a conclusion to the conciliation procedure in the event that the countries do not come out and the companies or the citizens then suffer. So the directive actually prevents lengthy procedures or the situation that countries really do not find a solution at all because there is no mandatory arbitration at the end of the process. The Netherlands has therefore for years been making an international commitment to this and is also seeking to include an arbitration clause in all individual tax treaties, i.e. also outside those of the Union. So we see this bill as an important step forward in the light of existing procedures and instruments. We already have a number of different ones. I would also like to point out that we have also recently adopted the multilateral instrument. That is very important because arbitration has also been brought forward. This also applies to the fact that we want to find all the countries with us as soon as possible in an early solution to the problems that may exist when you are active in several countries. Moreover, for the time being, the EU Arbitration Convention has been limited to transfer pricing, thus excluding other matters. So there are all kinds of different forms, Mr Omtzigt asked about them too, and not all arbitration conventions have the same scope. The arbitration directive in the legislative proposal now goes far beyond the existing procedures and regulates, for example, a more final and result-oriented procedure in many areas. For example, the arbitration directive has now become much wider in terms of the scope of the procedure. He sees at a point of dispute about the interpretation, applicable to all tax treaties. So he also sees matters relating to double taxation, but also, for example, differences of opinion at the time when treaty interpretation is being discussed. It's not just that you're trying to avoid double taxation, but sometimes there's really another interpretation. This arbitration directive can also improve this. The procedures have also become less non-binding and a large number more formalised. The competent authorities are now bound by time limits and therefore there is always a final deadline and the obligation towards the taxpayer is better respected. As a result, the new legislative procedure also brings with it greater legal protection, legal certainty and transparency for stakeholders. And because the procedure is described in detail in the law, the relevant conditions, deadlines, rights, remedies, as well as obligations are known in advance to all concerned. Perhaps the most important thing: any procedure under the bill could potentially lead to arbitration. Arbitration after the conciliation procedure therefore actually works positively in two ways. First of all, it's a stick behind the door. It is therefore always an additional motivation for the Member States to come to a real solution. Secondly, if there is no solution from the conciliation procedure, then the arbitration committee can consider it, so that a solution can be found. Mr Omtzig asked whether, given all these opportunities for arbitration, for example for individuals and small businesses, it would not be very complicated because they had to choose. Mr Omtzigt also asked why one good arbitration route was not chosen. How are taxpayers informed about the different options for consultation? That's kind of the summary. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that there is a great deal to choose for the taxpayer and that the situation we have now is, above all, something that has grown historically. The Netherlands has long had an active treaty policy to negotiate arbitration. The Netherlands has also agreed to this with a number of countries. Furthermore, arbitration is an optional part of the MLI, the multilateral instrument that I was just talking about. But not all countries tick that. We would like to, but not everyone does. But within Europe, this directive now ensures that arbitration becomes the norm and that there is a good route of arbitration available to all countries within the Union. This was a short run-up to giving some answers. Yeah, it's true that it's a complicated situation where there's a lot to choose from. But the Netherlands remains committed to ensuring that the route becomes as clear as possible. In any case, I believe that many Members of Parliament agree with me that it is a good thing that the EU Member States have now committed themselves to arbitration with this directive. The speed with which the directive was put into effect also shows that Member States considered it important. Within one year of the Commission's publication of the proposed Directive, the Council approved it. So what exactly are we solving? Let me give you a brief explanation. In order to eliminate double taxation, the Netherlands has many treaties, as I have already said, which divide tax duties. However, sometimes different countries explain or apply tax treaties in different ways. Despite the fact that you are trying to avoid this in such a treaty, double taxation may still occur. In principle, any taxable person who obtains income outside the Dutch borders can face this double taxation. Mrs Lodders and also Mr Omtzigt had a number of examples which clearly indicate that, despite the existence of a tax treaty and procedures, double taxation may still occur. We always want to avoid that. A large part of the current cases are mainly concerned with these individuals, not large multinationals or other cases; I would add that. So the vast majority of them are private individuals. But, of course, other companies, both large and small, may also have to deal with the uncertainties of a treaty policy. This also offers a solution for them. Then some numbers. I'll go into it more precisely. It is an average of 200 requests per year. This concerns all kinds of Dutch taxpayers. Mr Snels mentioned earlier that there were 366 in 2018. That's right. In my view, I would have mentioned that in the note on the report. But it was a bit of a distortion, for example because at one time more than 160 people participated in a MAP procedure. This was the case also mentioned by Mr Omtzigt, namely the problem of pensions with Belgium. We have finally solved these situations in the EAP procedure with one generic agreement; I am also saying this to Mr Omtzigt. So this is an example where arbitration is ultimately the final piece. Even though it sometimes takes too long, sometimes we also manage to get out by mutual agreement. Of the 366, we were able to solve 160 with one stone. If you take it out, you'll see it's about 200 procedural cases a year. That's what you actually see in the years before. The outflow rate is how many cases are we gonna solve? It is also about 200 per year. So you can actually see that we can finish about as many cases as that come in. At the same time, we can't solve the delays that sometimes occur. Some things really take years. It would be nice if you could. Then the method of implementation. The Arbitration Directive is implemented purely. In other words, the legislative proposal only incorporates the content and related aspects of the Arbitration Directive into national law. I say that in the direction of those groups that always argue for no national head. That is the case here. We don't have a national headline here. It is a direct implementation of the proposed directive. Then there's the procedure. In view of the content of the Arbitration Directive, the legislative proposal is mainly....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It may be a little less sexy in what we do in policy terms, but it provides an important framework for all the important decisions that we then have to take when it comes to removing, for example, that double taxation. Then the arbitration board. I come specifically to the questions on this subject. Based on the normal situation we are trying to create, an advisory arbitration committee consists of a chairman, one or two representatives of the Minister of Finance, one or two representatives of the other competent authorities, for example a Ministry of Finance of another country, and therefore two or up to four leading independent persons. In total, an arbitration board will exist five or nine persons, a number that has nothing to do with the cases and a number that can be placed by both parties and explain the application of the law in their country. These leading independent persons are appointed by the Minister of Finance, and so are the other countries, from a list attached to the Commission. The arbitration committee advises on the settlement of the dispute and the Member States, if the arbitration committee has also been set up as an advisory committee, may derogate from the opinion, but they are required to do so, in an exceptional situation. Moreover, we are always in favour of making the opinion binding in order to come up with a solution themselves. In all cases, there is a final decision submitted to interested parties which is subsequently implemented by a so-called adoption agreement. That word is common in our discussions. Then there are the specific questions. I will start with the Member State options. Mr Snels referred to his earlier motion asking the government to provide information on the situation with regard to the other countries every time the Chamber deals with the implementation of a bill. Often, and in this case too, it will appear that we do not have that information yet. Just as we in the Chamber are talking about its implementation and perhaps amendments are still being tabled, so are the other Member States. I understand that it may be relevant to know what the rest of the world is doing, but sometimes, in this case I think, we have to meet the obligations of the directive on our own. That is what we want, especially in the case of this implementation, where there are very few national Member State options. In this case, I think we can move forward without that knowledge. I do promise that when we know what the choices of other Member States are, we will inform the Chamber. However, we do not yet have that information. I also wonder if that information is available anywhere at the moment. Mr Snels also asked why access to the arbitration committee is refused in the case of criminal sanctions and why, for example, this does not happen in the case of fines. Other Member States sometimes make different choices. Basically, the Netherlands says: when there is a criminal conviction, something really went wrong and then you no longer have the right to apply the treaty. Something else is if you've had a fine. You did something that wasn't entirely correct and you got a fine, you could say some kind of traffic violation. Then you've already had a fine for that offense and then it's very harsh if you're punished again by not giving treaty application. That is the choice that the Netherlands makes. Other countries can opt for something else, but we draw the Dutch border there. On this point, Mrs Lodder asked me if I could say a little more about how this law works in relation to tax fraud. Suppose you're really convicted, is it a one-time thing, or do you suffer from it for the rest of your life? The criminal conviction should be directly linked to the dispute. That's, I think, the most important thing. So it's not like if you made that mistake in Area A, you're gonna stay in Area B for life. It's really about that direct link. It may, moreover, cover several tax years as long as there is a direct link. Fraud may last for more than one year; fraud may have occurred over several years. In the event of a criminal conviction with a direct link, access to the arbitration board can therefore be refused. Then there were questions about a number of figures. I have already mentioned a few, but I think there were even more precise questions from Mrs Lodder. She asked how many there have been in the last ten years and whether we can indicate exactly what kind of disputes were involved. I haven't been able to bring that forward so quickly. We know, however, that in general these are mainly transfer pricing and interpretation matters. Counterfeiting cases are actually always about companies. What do you split the profits to? This applies both to small and large enterprises. Interpretation cases, on the other hand, often concern natural persons. As I have already said, the vast majority of the things we see are about natural persons. In 2017, for example, we saw 40 transfer pricing cases and 180 interpretation cases. We have removed 140 of these interpretation cases, as well as about 40 transfer pricing cases. So you can see that the transfer pricing cases have been closed, but there are still 40 interpretation cases left. In general, we see about 200 business income and going out a year. The majority, 75% of these cases, are with EU Member States: Germany, Belgium and, also important, Italy, France and Spain. That is the largest category of countries we are dealing with. I don't have a one-to-one explanation. That also saves from year to year, but then you see a bit of what it's often about. Countries outside Europe also occur, although it is not the majority. That is where we mainly see things happening in the US and Indonesia. In the note on the report, I have already shared information with the Court on the number of cases and on the progress of cases. I should therefore like to refer Mrs Lodders back to that point. We will continue to publish these figures annually. That is what the OECD is doing, but for all countries. That really gives a very nice picture of that. Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs Lodders coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	Will the Secretary of State come back to my question as to whether he will monitor this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yeah, I think I'll get back to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	Then we'll see you later, Mrs. Lodders. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	Then Mrs. Lodders asked another question. Can the Secretary of State provide an overview of the disputes that have been resolved, of how they have come to an end, of the amounts that were involved and of how this worked out for the Netherlands? If I understand correctly, those were four questions, which I think are about the same thing. Here again, I think it is best to look at the figures we have received from the OECD. For example, the figures for 2016 and 2017 show that most of the cases have been closed, for example through a mutual consultation procedure. Fortunately, you could say that this also occasionally provides a solution, whereby double taxation could be removed. Sometimes a request is also withdrawn, because unilaterally one of the two countries says: you know what, I withdraw my point and I let this dispute come to an end, so that we have a solution for the taxpayer. This can be done, for example, because there are sufficient legal remedies at national level to allow this. In total, it did not lead to a complete solution in less than 10% of the two years I am talking about. It is precisely in those cases that the arbitration directive is still quite a large number But 90% can simply be resolved in good consultation. I'm glad to say so. I don't have figures on the number of cases per type of interested party. I can say, however, that the majority of the cases concern natural persons. Mrs Leijten asked about legal certainty. An arbitration ruling can also say something about the future. However, it is clearly stated that there can be no precedent in this legislative proposal. The aim of the law is to increase legal certainty, legal protection and transparency. The procedures are described in the law. As a result, the conditions, deadlines and remedies are known. Does such a ruling apply to what comes next? The answer is no. There is no direct precedent. That's because a lot of these things are on their own. There's hardly ever an identical case. That would be special, too. At the same time, such a procedure can provide insights to national legislators and stakeholders. There is no official legal effect, but of course people will look at what happened there. There's no official precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	That's what the bill showed. I would therefore like to call for a periodic review or an analysis of what has been done. A case may never be identical, but it can have very great similarities. I am thinking of a dispute with a particular Member State as to whether taxes should be paid in the country of residence or the source country. From that, you could conclude that we need to change something or that we need to conclude a treaty with that country in order to resolve it in other cases. I would find it interesting to see a periodic analysis of this. Is the Secretary of State willing to make it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	The purpose of a consultation procedure and ultimately of an arbitration case is to obtain an individual taxpayer's security. In fact, Mrs Leijten says: if we have dozens of things going on about the same point, then at some point we have to light a light and ask ourselves whether there is something that is not right. That's true. That's actually what we do. We update our tax treaties over and over again. Belgian pensions were just mentioned. That's a good example. As a result of the conciliation procedure, we know that things are unclear over and over again. This may be even clearer than in the case of arbitration cases. We'll take that with us. I'm trying to point out that we should be careful not to make some kind of new legal history out of individual cases. That is precisely why there is no official precedent. You want the people involved in that arbitration case not to have to worry about what the verdict means for all other cases. We want them to help solve a problem through arbitration. You can do that with a shortcut or whatever. I think we are doing what Mrs Leijten wants in our policy development. She wants an overview that shows that we are learning from it, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	You could also opt for the precedent. Then the solution of an individual dispute applies to similar situations in the future. That has not been chosen now, and I can quite follow that. I think you should then opt for a periodic review. That can be done every year or biennially, I don't care. This can show that there are a lot of issues about pensions or about business establishment. Then you can make an analysis of whether the same problem is at the root of it. Then all these people won't have to go to that arbitration anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Snels. Oh, I'm sorry, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	The confusion over the names is still not decreasing. But it'll be okay sometime, maybe at the end of this cabinet period. I think I understand Mrs Leijten very well. I'm gonna think about if we can do that. Again, I don't want to suggest that on the basis of these things we're getting some sort of new legal development. I understand what she's saying, and I'd like to think about how best to shape that. So I will. Mrs Lodders gave the example of a truck driver in the Norwegian situation. She has previously asked written questions on this subject, which I am answering. Moreover, I hope to have these answers completed quickly; it is quite a complicated matter. It is true that what we are doing now does not need to apply directly to it. But I thought it was a good example to point out that people sometimes want someone to take a look at a specific situation. At the same time, I would add that it may also be that in some cases a case through a mutual consultation procedure does not lead to a result, for which arbitration is subsequently requested, leading to a result with which people disagree. It's possible. The Netherlands is very much in favour of arbitration, but if a taxpayer wants to be completely equal, that may mean that we really do accept that. Otherwise there is no point in arbitration: it is the closing point. But I will reply in writing. I just want to point out that it's really an arbitration case. Mr Omtzigt mentioned an example from the practice of Dutch and Belgian pensions. That's right; we've talked about that before in the Chamber. I have just briefly said that this was indeed a painful example, with a long period of uncertainty as to who had the charging rights. Then everyone decided: then we have both charging rights, so that suddenly double taxation was applied. In the end, fortunately, we were able to find a solution in good consultation with the Belgians. But it was an exact example of why we really need this arbitration directive, because it worked like a stick behind the door. Mr Omtzigt asked: if it is expected that this law will lead to more arbitration cases in the long term, and thus to additional work, why are no additional FTEs entered? Can that be right together? It is true that we expect more arbitration cases to be held so that we can offer more solutions. At the same time, however, the note on the report also states that we expect the additional work to be taken into account in the current formation. How is that possible if there are more cases? This has to do with the expectation that the amount of work can be reduced by dispute resolution. The incentive of the legislative proposal leads us to believe that we will also be able to find a solution faster, which will speed up the process of removing more cases and thus avoid the need for additional FTEs on balance. Mr Snels van GroenLinks asked if there were any figures on the situation of double non-taxation. The philosophical question emerged as to whether it would not be good to have an arbitration board for double non-taxation for stock exchange companies. The answer is quite short: I do not have any figures on the situation of double non-taxation. That is not so strange either, because in cases where a company or a citizen does not suffer from double non-taxation they will not quickly report to us. That's kind of internal logic: if you think you're double-paying, you'll report it faster than if you think there's a windfall, because you don't have to pay twice. That's why it's hard to get a picture of that. However, I do understand his philosophical point and, in fact, it is very close to the discussion we have had here more often that I also think it is important that we should tackle tax avoidance, that I also think it is important that we should not only do so through legislation, but that the company itself should also take some responsibility for doing so. I am pleased that the social debate is putting increasing pressure on companies to do the same. That just to philosophize a little bit back towards Mr. Snels. Mr Omtzig asked me in what cases the mutual consultation procedure for a taxable person was more favourable than the route of the Arbitration Directive. It is difficult, in general terms, to say in which cases one route would be more favourable than the other, because it could be different for each situation. In general, I do expect that the route of the Tax Arbitration Act is the most favourable and that this route will mainly be used within Europe. That's not advice or outcome, it's our expectation. This is because the Tax Arbitration Act provides better safeguards for access to the procedure and can actually bring about a timely resolution of the dispute. So we think it's gonna go that way. Then there is the arbitration committee that has been set up. Mr Omtzigt also had a question about this: what guarantees are there to ensure that the Arbitration Committee is completely independent and qualified to take a decision? I have just indicated that this committee can be composed of five or nine members. It is important that in the case of an odd number, a majority of members is always independent. That's settled, and we think that's gonna help. In addition, we want to have a lot of guarantees and demands for the people who can enter them. Not everyone can just be a part of that. We really want to know who they are and what experience they have. For example, they could be former judges or judges. You don't have to, but that could be very good. For example, such a person should not be a tax advisor; let that also be clear. So we have a number of conditions. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance and the other competent authorities may require an appointed independent person or his alternate to open up matters in order to be able to fully review his independence or impartiality. We have the idea that a number of firm safeguards have been used to do so. Mrs Leijten asked a question of the court for the provision of services. What steps should be taken before you can end up with the Arbitration Committee? In principle, the Court of Appeal will only be involved if a competent authority fails to fulfil its obligations. In short, the steps are as follows. The interested party shall be the first to lodge a complaint or a dispute concerning a tax convention with the competent authority. If accepted, the competent authority may initiate a mutual consultation procedure. If it does not then provide a solution, an arbitration board may be set up at the request of the party concerned. So the interested party is the one who's on the control buttons. Those were the questions at this point. There were also questions about the costs. Mrs Leijten had a question about that and I thought Mr Snels too. Why does the Dutch Government not choose to recover the costs from the interested party? For example, can no border be built in so that a large company has to pay for the costs but not a private or small company? The Directive provides for the possibility of recovering certain costs from the arbitration procedure, for example the remuneration for the leading independent persons, from the interested party. That's right. This may be done in a situation where an interested party withdraws his complaint or an arbitration committee finds that a complaint has been rightly rejected. I have indicated that I would be very reluctant to deal with the costs in these situations, because I think it is important that access to arbitration is as easy as possible for everyone. Yesterday we had a little discussion about whether the Tax Administration should charge the costs that have been incurred. In this case, it's not about the Tax Administration, it's about the arbitration process. I think I want to deal with this very reluctantly in the first instance, because I believe that everyone, big or small, should be able to achieve their rights. I think it is a shame to set a threshold or create obstacles in a rule of law. I'd rather not. I know that there are possibilities in the directive to opt for it, and I am not going to rule it out either, but the starting line is that we want to make it accessible to everyone. If I remember correctly, Mr Snels asked why we did something different than was included in the OECD directive. That's right. The OECD Model Convention assumes that each party bears its own costs. The principle is the same under this directive. In short, the costs involved in the arbitration procedure are shared between the countries concerned. The Directive provides for equal distribution. Costs for the representation of interested parties in the arbitration process shall be borne by interested parties both in the legislative proposal and in the OECD Model Convention. So, for the most part, we do see the same principles, but at the end of the day we do choose something different than the OECD Model Convention. Moreover, we are not the only country that chooses to do so. I see another question from Mr Snels: can there be a better understanding of the financial implications of the legislative proposal? The legislative proposal is expected to result only occasionally in higher implementation costs. Mr Snels himself mentioned the €380,000 for the Tax Administration. The reason for these high implementation costs is that we expect a temporary acceleration in the handling of cases through the mutual consultation procedure. Furthermore, there is no loss of income or additional income. This is linked to the nature of the conciliation procedure. The main purpose of a procedure is to eliminate double or unjustified taxation. To this end, agreement shall be reached with another country on which country the levy is due. By definition, you actually do what was intended and there is no loss of income or additional income. We only have additional implementation costs and we have included how high they would be. I have some final answers. Mr Snels said earlier that this also occurred in a comment in the written consultation on a D66 question, that he still did not quite understand why the Netherlands chooses to allow arbitration only if there is double taxation and not double non-taxation. On the basis of an example, I can illustrate why it seems logical but perhaps less logical in practice. Suppose you are a Dutch pension fund and receive dividends from a country with which the Netherlands has concluded a tax treaty. Suppose, under the tax treaty with that country, no dividend tax may be withheld from the payment to pension funds. In my opinion, in the situation where the source country is subject to dividend taxation, the pension fund should be able to rely on the mutual arbitration procedure in order to be eligible. This has to do with the fact that we initially exempt the payment to the pension fund from tax but that later, if the pension fund is paid out, tax will have to be paid on the benefit. At the moment when one country says it wants to impose taxation on the building up, for example on the dividends that go with it and that later on you have to pay for the benefit, you still have double taxation. Although not at that time, on balance it will lead to double taxation. In this case, we want such a Dutch pension fund to be able to use the existing rights. There are more examples, but I think this is the example that best illustrates that it is not easy to link one-on-one. This applies to double taxation but also in other cases where you want the tax convention to apply to the players as a whole. In general terms, however, when there is an abuse of the Treaties, we simply try to include anti-abuse provisions within our own tax treaties; that is our policy. We do this not only bilaterally, but also in the MLI, for example at the PTT, the Principle Purpose Test; sorry for my English, chairman. That is actually the most efficient way of looking at whether the objective of a given design is to avoid tax or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	A short question, because Mrs Leijten is again present, I see. Does the Secretary of State also refer to Mrs Leijten's amendment? This is seen in this debate about double non-taxation and when and when access. I believe that the amendment takes account of the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	Yeah, I'll get right on that. I'm at the other block by now. In the meantime, I also see the answer to the question about the precedent that I was eagerly looking for. So that was in the other block. I think I just gave the answer. It is true that Member States can already agree on a generic solution and can also publish if a specific problem is more common, for example in a situation with the Netherlands and Belgium. We did that with Belgian pensions. It is true that you can take action yourself immediately on the basis of the knowledge you have from procedures that occur. We do that every time that's relevant and necessary. That makes sense, as I thought, and that is what is happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr President, I would like to ask you and the Secretary of State if we can proceed with the assessment of the amendment, because I am afraid I have to leave the Chamber for another appointment. I feel that there is sympathy for it, but there are also objections. I would actually like to see if we can resolve that, so that we do have a clearer mandate for that committee, so that she does not serve that multinational with that army to advisers and lawyers, but at the same time small entrepreneurs who really have a legitimate question do not cut off the pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	Will the Secretary of State be able to discuss the amendment now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yeah, you can. I was almost at the end. I had three other minor points, but I can also move on to the amendment at once. I read that a few minutes ago. In part, of course, it concerns the refusal of access to the Arbitration Committee if the dispute does not concern double taxation. I think that is what the amendment calls for. I therefore note that there are concerns about the possibility of opening the conciliation and arbitration procedure to situations where there is no double taxation. Those concerns may not be entirely justified. They are also based on a misunderstanding about the nature of the mutual consultation and arbitration procedure. The procedures are designed to resolve double taxation and taxation in breach of the Tax Convention. Taxation in breach of the Treaty may also involve situations where there is no double taxation. I just explained that. I mentioned the example of these pension funds. I continue to believe that it is important that these persons or bodies can also benefit from the arbitration procedure in such situations. Of course, tax arbitrage cannot be used to avoid tax. I agree with everyone. We don't want to, and we can't. With the anti-abuse provisions in the deadlines, whether or not through the MLI, which I have just mentioned, these countries will also be able to combat these types of situations of tax avoidance. So I see in those anti-abuse provisions a lot more leverage to deal with that than the possibility of doing so indirectly through dispute resolution and arbitration. All in all, therefore, I do not recommend the amendment, because I think that would deny access to people who do need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	I would like to point out those two options. They give the committee the opportunity to refuse a case, but not the obligation to do so. It is also clearly stated in the legal text "the Minister may refuse." That is the case when it comes to a dispute over non-double taxation. If you do not include in the law that the tax arbitration committee should not be used for maximum tax avoidance, for example through border exploration, it will be used for that purpose. That is precisely the dilemma I would like to resolve. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of amending this amendment in such a way as to make it clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	In my view, the starting point is that everyone actually has the right to clarify how two tax systems interact in international situations, for example. Then you can try very hard to estimate that in advance, but is that to allow tax avoidance? That really is not the experience we have. In the vast majority of cases we see, it's just citizens. It's really about people who might get hit by two systems and get crushed by them. Mr Omtzigt said the same thing. In the vast majority of cases, it's really about people, individuals who don't know that. These include, for example, people who work and live across borders. We really want to give those people the opportunity to make use of it. This also applies to companies operating across borders. I may understand the political interest in making this another major debate on tax avoidance and competition, but that is not the point. This is just about people and companies not getting any certainty about what it means to them. When it comes to trying to distinguish between double taxation and double non-taxation, I have just explained why double non-taxation can ultimately be unfair for a Dutch pension fund. That's all of us, let's just say. That is why we want that possibility to remain. If we include in an amendment something that we ourselves say as a country that there are no arbitration possibilities, we will distance ourselves from the great good that we are trying to achieve here, namely that everyone participates, not only bilaterally, but also within the Union. We all have to participate in the fact that a rightholder gets solutions or at least gets a result of his dispute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	I find it a little bizarre how big the Secretary of State makes this. He's acting like I'm proposing something that's totally out of order. No, this is explicitly one of the two options you have from the implementation directive. This implementing law does opt for one option, namely fraud cases involving taxes. There you can refuse as a commission, but you can't refuse there. I say that you should also be able to refuse if there is no obvious dispute about double taxation, but there is, for example, obvious border exploration of a multinational that simply wants to know how to avoid even more tax. That is precisely the dilemma I am asking: can we come to each other so that this becomes clear? And then the Secretary of State says that I'm working on something very strange and that I want to deny people access. On the contrary, I want the multinationals, who already pay little or no taxes or even pay negative taxes, which give them tax money, to cut off the pass in this tax arbitration committee if they abuse them. I don't understand why the Secretary of State doesn't feel the room to accommodate the amendment in such a way that it becomes clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	The amendment is based on a base erosion and profit shifting. BEPS is also mentioned, as is tax avoidance. Again, this bill is not about that. I agree that we need to address all these issues. For this, I hope, in recent years, we have shown that, together with your Chamber, we can take steps forward and make these legislative proposals. But we really need to be careful that we make it a kind of tax debate even in the arbitration field. I have given the example that even if it seems innocent, I said: almost everyone feels that you can end up somewhere you don't want to end up. I simply think it is unwise to adopt such an amendment because the most important thing is that we open arbitration to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	I am sympathetic to the amendment and at the same time I am sympathetic to the Secretary of State's argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	Well, that's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	That's complicated, and that's why I still have a question. I have read the amendment correctly. It does say that it can be refused, so there is no refusal. I agree with the Secretary of State that there are all kinds of possibilities for legitimate dispute resolution, up to arbitration, which is not about double taxation. There must be such opportunities. I agree with the Secretary of State. I believe that the amendment makes this possible. However, I can imagine that, for example, the explanatory memorandum makes explicit reference to the possibility of arbitration in the case of pension funds or differences of interpretation in the case of treaties. It won't be denied. But when it comes to border exploration, in obvious attempts to avoid tax or base erosion, I would say that we should cut off access to arbitration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	Again, I really understand the thoughts behind it, but the misconception is that arbitration is about this kind of thing. We don't recognize that at all. And then about bringing in what is or isn't border exploration. You must imagine that we are going to do this together within all EU countries and that other countries are saying that what the Netherlands is doing is ground-breaking. Then we say: we really do not want to have arbitration anymore. That does not solve all these problems. My point is not that I disagree with the underlying thoughts, but I am really opposed to mixing this arbitration with the debate on tax avoidance. These Dutch people who receive pensions are not doing that at all. I just mentioned the numbers. Those are by far the largest numbers. Suppose the Netherlands says that if we call something 'exploratory', we do not give any clarity. You must imagine that all the other countries are doing the same. So I think it is really very important that we have this debate on tax avoidance with each other. Delicious, every day. I'm fine with that, and then we're gonna come up with things, but we have to be careful not to mix this with the discussion about people and taxpayers, whether they're big or small, who say, can I please have a little clarity about what that law means to me? I just don't want to deny them that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	It remains a dilemma, because I actually agree with almost all the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State, but the point is, of course, that this Member State option was made right to prevent tax avoidance. So there are other countries that do. With all these arguments put forward by the Secretary of State, it is a question of cutting off border explorations and tax avoidance, which we all do not want to see. That's what I'm looking for. Can this be done, for example, in the explanatory statement? Legally it also seems to be complicated to reword it. This is indeed only one of the possibilities to do something about it, but I am still looking for the possibilities to get a step further here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	I don't have a solution for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	Finally, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mrs Leijten also had the discussion with the legal lawyers here and with the legal lawyers of the Ministry of Finance. I can imagine that we are going to do this together with Mrs Leijten, and I would like to make another attempt to reform that amendment and to clarify and clarify the explanatory statement, including all the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State, so that it is really clear that we will continue to guarantee access for citizens and businesses who have legitimate business, but that we will do something about that border exploration. Then the Secretary of State will be able to give a final opinion on this at another time, for example with a letter before the vote, because I do not think we can get out of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u47	I find it very complicated, too. If you look at how this is exactly, you can see that there is, of course, another possibility, something that could happen very well. Again, we don't think this one, two, three is the main target. But suppose now that a multinational is trying to set up a border exploration through a structure. He says he just wants to know exactly what's going on and that he wants this to be put into arbitration. Then there must have been some kind of conflict or something where you could do that, but suppose all that happened. If the tax authorities of both countries say that this structure does not actually apply taxation on either side, I think that in many cases you will immediately see that the tax treaty, which should not only prevent double taxation but also double non-taxation, will say that this is weird and that this cannot be the result. Then the procedure stops and the arbitration lapses. Even within the current procedure, therefore, the conclusion is very often that this can never be the intention. What does this procedure do? It explains how the tax treaty is working between these two countries. If there is a possibility that no tax will be paid, so that is a double non-taxation, then the tax treaty will, of course, say that this cannot be the intention. I have just given an example of why it can sometimes be the intention, but that was not about border exploration or structures. That was just about a Dutch pension fund, which says you can't pay twice. We think this is a valid point, but if there is an unjustified point or, in Mrs Leijten's words, a frontier-exploratory situation, then the tax treaty will already say: ho, something goes wrong here; so we simply withdraw that arbitration. That arbitration cannot give a favourable outcome to that multinational. So again, I find it difficult to see what this amendment solves in practice that already exists. Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions that Mr Mulder has put in the shortest possible way. So I will try to answer these questions in the shortest possible way. Can I promise that there will be no arbitration institute with all kinds of expensive Brussels directors and all that? To this is the answer that it is indeed not intended that a new international body be set up with a view to using Dutch only for once all kinds of diplomatic horns and bells. This cannot be done on the basis of what has been agreed in the directives, but it is not the intention either. Mr Mulder also asked whether this law also applies to disputes arising in countries which, for example, have started unilaterally to lift a digitaks, as a number of countries in Europe have done. The short answer to that is yes. It will then be examined whether or not the digitals are in breach of the Tax Convention, which could well be the case. So the short answer is yes. I think I have run out of questions with this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you. Then I shall suspend the sitting until noon. Mrs. Leijten is still jumping up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u49	I'd like to make one more attempt anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u50	No, we won't. You have both asked a question about the amendment in three copies, and you are not getting any closer to each other. It is not customary to do another round on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u51	But if the Secretary of State says: I really don't understand what this amendment solves; can I explain what I want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u52	You did that in threefold, Mr. Snels did it in threefold. You're not getting out of it. That is very unfortunate, because I prefer to see MPs, opposition, coalition and government coming together. In this case, it didn't work out. I shall suspend the sitting until noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u53	The next item is the second term of the Tax Arbitration Act. Mrs Leijten apologizes and Mr Mulder apologizes. Mr. Snels has waived his second-term speaking time. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start by thanking the Secretary of State for answering the questions. This important law is fairly simple, but the Chamber has nevertheless been able to ask a number of critical questions, certainly also about the drafting of this law. My group really sees this law as an end to a dispute. In doing so, he can also make an important contribution. Mr. Chairman. I've been triggered by the figures for 2017. In particular, there are still quite a lot of natural persons' issues open. That's not a reproach, but I can see it. This is often poignant, because this often concerns individuals, or sometimes a group of a number of individuals, and the consequences are very great. In particular, I raised this point with the lorry drivers who work internationally, in the example in Norway. I would like to table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that citizens and small businesses may be affected by complex (tax and social security) legislation and the application and interpretation of tax treaties;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to come up with a solution within four months to the problems of the Dutch/Norwegian lorry drivers and Rhinefarers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35110-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. I had asked another question about reporting on the law that will now come into force. I don't think I've had an answer to that. Is the Secretary of State prepared to report to us in a year or two on the number of times the binding arbitration has been initiated, on the way the disputes have been settled and on the persons concerned? I am not just asking you to know that, but precisely to see what we can do about it and whether our tax treaties, which we regularly deal with in this Chamber, are up-to-date, accurate and sound. Then we can take a step forward with that outcome. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will go into this further. Then I would like to thank both the Secretary of State and you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. Debates with this Secretary of State can sometimes be extremely boring and quiet, and that is a good sign in itself, because there is just a legislative proposal and there are clear answers that, if it is right, will help individual citizens if they get caught up. Perhaps in the second term, the Secretary of State will be able to indicate whether in four or five years' time, or if appropriate, we can hear how it all works in practice. This does not have to be done on a stand-alone basis, but, ultimately, such a law must, of course, prove itself in practice. It is also useful if there is an evaluation to see if there are any issues that are outside the scope of the law when they should have been covered, and to see, for example, whether certain countries are cooperating. I suspect that Belgium and other countries within the Union might find that a little more difficult. Maybe the Secretary of State can still reflect on that. Thank you for the clear and substantive answers, including on Mrs Leijten's amendment. My group does not have any further questions. However, I started my introduction by saying that we are basically aiming for one tax payment: not zero times, not twice, but once. At the Dutch headquarters it turned out to be a problem last week. That is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that companies with a Dutch head office do not in all cases pay corporation tax on profits obtained in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, in a fair economy, each company must contribute to the financing of collective burdens and thus to the creation of the necessary infrastructure to undertake;]] [[calls on the government to set up a committee consisting of experts, both internally and externally, which in six months' time advises on measures to make the taxation of profits of multinationals fairer, while the Netherlands remains attractive to Dutch headquarters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35110-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr President, I am going to try to do so. Let me start with Mrs Lodder's question, which I had not quite addressed and which is about reporting on dispute resolution. Mrs Leijten had asked such a question earlier. I had already said something about it, in the sense that we are keeping up with it, but it was actually asked whether this could not be done in a more concrete way. I've just been thinking, and maybe it's good to include this in the pledge letter. That's typical of what we're gonna do and what we're gonna do. Whether it really needs to be at the level of the company, why Mrs Lodder asked, does not seem sensible to me. I think it would be wise to indicate what species it is and what it means, so sort of in the sense of what we have just talked about. So that would be my commitment to Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u59	I did not ask to indicate it specifically at company level, but I did ask for a distinction between companies and natural persons. There may also be some indication of the nature of the companies, such as large or small ones, but it is particularly important that we have an insight into the extent and content of the disputes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u60	Okay, so as such, I've understood it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u61	So the motion gets judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u62	This was another question. I shall now turn to the motion by Mrs Lodders, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs De Vries in respect of item No. 10. That motion concerns both a general situation and a more specific situation. With regard to this more specific situation, I have said that we are in the process of submitting the answers to your Chamber. I think I agree with the first observation of the motion. I can imagine that the motion will be held until we have been able to give the answers I expect to be able to submit to your Chamber at the beginning of next week. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to give the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u63	I hear the Secretary of State say: Judge Chamber but perhaps it is good to wait for the answers. Well, if those answers come to the Chamber at the beginning of next week, I'll hold this motion for a moment so I can study the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u64	At the request of Mrs Lodders, I propose her motion (35110, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u65	Then the motion by Members of this House, Lodders. Van Weyenberg and Bruins in part No. 11. Let me say first of all that this is an important issue which is one of the main issues, or perhaps the most important, of my own political agenda. Everyone has to pay a fair share. Then we can talk as political days and days about what that means, but the motion clearly indicates that it is not zero if you do use all kinds of things. There are all kinds of considerations about headquarters and what we want. It is a subject which we would also like to discuss in detail in the letter of building blocks which I have promised to the Chamber. Nevertheless, if you look at what's written here, I think I agree with all the considerations. So here too, I would like to give Chamber judgment on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you. The motion in part No. 11 is judged by the Chamber and the amendment to item No. 9 was already dissuaded in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u67	Yes. I would like to point out once again, because I saw that Mrs Leijten was a little disappointed about the whole, that I made a commitment in the last part of my response. At a time when the Netherlands, in such an arbitration process, thinks that this is about border exploration, once again, I see that not one, two, three happen, but if that is the case, I promise that we will also be trying to say that this arbitration process will come to an end. That is my promise. I think it's important that we do that. I think it's the best I can make of this to meet a little bit. So my assessment of the amendment remains the same, but I would just like to say that it has not completely gone away and that I would like to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you for this commitment. Did that bring you to the end of your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u70	Good. Then, at the same time, we have come to the end of the debate on the Tax Arbitration Act. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence and reply, and thank the Members for their presence and input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-3.u71	The law, the amendment and the motion will be voted on next Tuesday.
