ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of former chairman of the CFP, Mr Frans Andriessen. He died on 22 March at the age of 89. I welcome the family of Frans Andriessen: his wife Catherine, his children Christine, with Timothy, and Frank, with Carmel, and his grandchildren. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Finance, Mr Hoekstra, in Box K. He's representing the cabinet today. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand, if possible. Frans Andriessen entered the Chamber in 1967, as spokesperson for Housing. That was in his blood. According to Hans Wiegel, who joined the Chamber with him, Andriessen knew most of all of them. The sometimes fierce debates on housing gave him a profile in the group. He had talent and that was seen. In 1971, he was elected as the group chairman, the last in the history of the KVP, before it entered the CDA. Frans Andriessen was one of the key figures in that merger, despite the fact that his father openly wondered what he was supposed to do with it. He had clear ideas about his party, about our democracy and about the role of the Chamber. During the time of the KVP, he felt that the party should hold on to the K. Later he told the CDA not to let go of the C. "Without these guiding principles, a broad popular party will not stand up," he said. What made Frans Andriessen special is his views on the role of parliament. He had great respect for the Chamber of Representatives, not least because his father was a member of it for 30 years. He was annoyed by the disproportionate respect for ministers in relation to the members of parliament. His group enjoyed his performances as a opponent of Den Uyl, who at the same time helped to bring his cabinet period to a successful conclusion. Although Frans Andriessen was a loyal leader of the political group, the PvdA absolutely did not want him to become a minister in a second cabinet, Den Uyl. They thought he was too critical. There was no second Den Uyl cabinet, but Frans Andriessen was still on the stairs of the burgundy as Minister of Finance in the Van Agt/Wiegel cabinet in 1977. Cabaretier Wim Kan once called Andriessen "a colourless man." Indeed, he was not frivolous or lighthearted. Maybe he wasn't a public favorite. He hated theater and he shunned big words. Words you associated with Frans Andriessen were: "kind," "competent," "serious," "respected" and "powerful." He knew how to handle it. "Working hard doesn't make you sick," he once said in an interview. It was that serious impact that led him to quit as Minister of Finance in 1980. The budget deficit had risen to 6% and there had to be intervention. Large-scale cuts were necessary. Frans Andriessen demanded 4 billion guilders. His colleagues in the cabinet didn't want to go any further than half. For him, the reason was to resign. "I must be able to look at myself in the mirror without having to be ashamed of my performance," he said. He stayed close to himself but left with a bad feeling. I quote: "An extremely invigorating affair that has cost me a great deal of heartache." What no one suspected at that time was that the golden years had yet to come. A year later, in 1981, Andriessen left for Brussels. He became the second longest-standing Dutch Commissioner in the field of economics and competition, agriculture and external relations and trade. From 1985 until the end of his European career in 1992 he was Vice-President of the Commission. In Brussels Frans Andriessen felt like a fish in the water. He was happy in Brussels. In Brussels he was at home together with his wife and children. There was no homesickness for national politics. The other way around, I think there was definitely homesickness from The Hague towards people like Frans Andriessen. We remember him as someone who has worked with heart and soul for man and society. He did so with a remarkable lack of political fear, as I read in an old article about him. Fear of the grassroots, fear of maintaining one's own career and position, it was strange to him. And a lack of fear, which is not immediately available from stock in Dutch politics. Frans Andriessen was straight and honest, someone you knew what he was doing. Someone who could look at himself in the mirror all the time. Wim Kan failed him when he called him colourless, because if anyone was not afraid to confess colour, then it was Frans Andriessen. We are grateful to him for what he has meant for the Chamber and Dutch democracy. We wish his family, his children much strength in these sad times. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. "There is a need for movement, where there is rigidity, and development is needed, where there is a threat of stagnation. We must always be involved in this from a political point of view." These are the words of Frans Andriessen. He spoke them out in October 1972 during the General Political Reviews in this house. Today we commemorate him. A steadfast driver, a sober and hardworking man. And a razor-sharp politician, who was always a few steps ahead of the troops. Franciscus Henricus Johannes Joseph Andriessen was born in Utrecht in the spring of 1929. He was a child in the war. Those experiences showed how he looked at life. He later said about this himself: "The Hunger Winter taught me how relative the matter is. Fortunately, the war is long over, but we should have brought some of it. We could have passed on the awareness of the relativeity of things." Political interest and social involvement were poured into him at home. He grew up in Utrecht in a deeply religious Catholic family as the fourth of ten children. His father Jan made it only primary school into influential MP and senator for the KVP. One day after he, the father, left this house in 1967, Frans, the son, took his place in the Chamber. Frans Andriessen noticed in the Chamber. After ten years he became chairman of the KVP. In that role he was critical and sometimes feared, but also loyal and respected. At the same time, his sober breast was striking, especially at a time of polarization and high-tuned ideals. "Police, that's not witnesses," he said. "It's a practical translation into deeds of the vision you have." He was my predecessor at the Ministry of Finance in the first Van Agt cabinet. Andriessen watched over the treasury in times of rising unemployment and economic malaise. He warned against an accelerated slipping of the Dutch economy, but came into his call for further cuts to be more and more alone. I told you, Andriessen was a steadfast man. He offered his resignation. In a letter he warned his colleagues in the cabinet: "The easiest way in the short term will soon prove to be the hardest and most harmful." Did history match him? The next cabinet would make severe cuts. The early termination of the ministry hurt him. But it finally brought him to Brussels. That's where he was in place. He felt at home there. As Commissioner for Agriculture, he was convinced of the need to reform the sector, precisely because it had to deal with milk lakes and butter mountains. He held up. It stood despite major opposition from several Member States. In the end, he would remain a Commissioner for twelve years. During that period, he quickly conquered territory, thanks to his knowledge, his reputation as a file eater and his flexibility and patience in the Brussels negotiations. He concluded trade agreements, was at the forefront of the Soviet Union's fall to close the border from west to east, and was the right-hand man of President Delors at the drawing table for the Maastricht Treaty. He was European all his life, believing that there is no better alternative, for he himself said "if Europe does not speak with one mouth, others who are more powerful than us will decide what is good for us." Madam President. Andriessen was a man for whom business and content were paramount. For the greater honour and glory of himself, he never did. He felt it was a task of politicians to allow the long term to prevail over the short term and, if necessary, to oppose the prevailing public and political opinion. Solidarity and living together were at the heart of him, at the breach of my thinking; he saw that as the right of existence of Christian-democratic politics. It made him remain involved in society until very old age, in all these years with his wife Catherine at his side. Together they formed a close team. With the death of Frans Andriessen, we lose a competent, discerning and enthusiastic director, who has meant a great deal to the Netherlands and to Europe. We're losing a realist with ideals. We remember him with the deepest respect and great gratitude. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish his wife, his children and grandchildren, family and friends all the strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I would now ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. I shall now suspend the meeting so that you can express your condolences to the family at the Members' Restaurant.
