ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the VAO Regional Broadcasting. A warm word of welcome to the Minister of OCW. I'm glad you're back with us. We have five speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mr Kwint of the SP Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's chaos in the local broadcasters. This is not due to the regional broadcasters themselves, but to the waiting behaviour of The Hague. Everyone makes beautiful but vague promises. Acts remain out so far. Meanwhile, regional broadcasters are threatened with bankruptcy and people are at risk of losing their jobs. Our local democracy as far as the SP is concerned is too important for that. These broadcasters and their staff deserve clarity and certainty. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas regional broadcasters are of great importance for a strong local democracy;]] [[noting that some regional broadcasters are in danger of going bankrupt even before the Minister presents his media plans including additional measures for regional broadcasting;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that regional broadcasters do not go bankrupt in the run-up to the presentation of the previously announced additional measures for regional broadcasters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint, Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32827-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. It can happen quickly, but if not the elaboration of the motion we are discussing today. That motion was adopted at the beginning of December, we had the general consultation on 16 May and it is now 12 June, so I understand Mr Kwint's impatience very well. This week we received a letter from the Minister saying that this effect is to be expected in the short term. My question to the Minister is: how long exactly is that? Can he promise that this will be within a week, so that we, as a Chamber, may also have the opportunity to look at the Spring Paper to see what we consider necessary ourselves if the Minister was not allowed to come out in his validation and search for funding? Regardless of the not-so-great turnout here, I think there is a great interest in this in the Chamber. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. You just have a question; you can. Mr Van der Molen from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to support what my colleague Mr Sneller van D66 said. We have already adopted a motion in this Chamber rather early in the day, which sees that the regional broadcasters who have now really fallen into a difficult situation can be supported. I heard the Minister very clearly at the time. I also think that he still has the ambition to ensure that, despite our relationship with the regional broadcasters, there is a whole other because the responsibility is primarily with municipalities, we still have to look at how we can improve support, so that example broadcasting is supported by the broadcasters that are now in the firing line of the problems. That is why I would also like to repeat Mr Sneller's question from the CDA. The Minister has sent us a letter stating that we still have to be patient and that the broadcasters must also be patient. Well, my patience, that's easy, but with the broadcasters I notice that patience is really running out. I should therefore like to ask the Minister whether he considers it possible to inform this Chamber within a week of what he can and will do with the implementation of the Sneller motion. Mr. Chairman. A second point, which has not been raised in the AO, but which has already been settled, namely the resources available for cooperation between regional and local broadcasters. I would like to receive further information from the Minister on its use. I understand from the Minister that no claim has yet been made, but is the Minister prepared to look at the framework conditions in another step, so that local broadcasters and regional broadcasters may be able to have direct access when cooperation with regional broadcasters would not materialise? For that is now access to available resources for these regional broadcasters. I would like to hear a commitment from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u6	A brief question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u7	The coalition's line of defense is apparently that there should be a letter within a week. That's excellent news. Well, at least we know this is gonna happen. Would it be acceptable to the CDA if, in the end, regional broadcasters went bankrupt before the letter with these measures was published?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u8	I assume that the Minister will do everything in his power to do for the regional broadcasters, because he has promised this not only to the regional broadcasters but also to the Chamber, including to you and to me. I would be very sorry if regional broadcasters were to be in great trouble in the meantime. But I believe that a week's time limit, which Mr Sneller and I have mentioned, is fast enough to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u9	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u10	But if there's another letter coming in a week, you don't know what's in it, do you? Then we do not know in any way whether the regional broadcasters will be helped by this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u11	That's right. I do not know the content of course, but I have heard the Minister make a clear promise to the Chamber. I now assume that, as with the other promises made by this Minister, that commitment will also be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you. Then Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the AO we have just talked about the importance of regional broadcasting. Although, of course, it is not formally the responsibility of the state to finance regional and local broadcasters, we would like to see that as a VVD: we would like to see local broadcasters and regional broadcasters go to the state authorities, because that is only good, because of that interest, we tabled the Sneller motion in November 2018 to see what possibilities there are for maintaining the pillar of regional broadcasting. Unfortunately, despite the naming of that motion, that is still not going to happen. That is why I would ask the Minister once again to come forward quickly with the implementation of this motion. Unfortunately, we received a letter yesterday about the postponement, but like the other Members, I would like to call on us to give us a piece of work on how this motion is going to be carried out within a week. Because then, as a Chamber, we can also take responsibility for the Spring Note. My second question is about the conversation that would be held with the RPO. Yesterday's letter contained a brief comment on this. As Mr Van der Molen said, resources are available for this cooperation. I am curious to see how the Minister has implemented this commitment to the RPO, how that has been done and whether there are any successes to be reported in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u14	Clear. Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. We listen to the Minister for the answers. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its contribution to this VAO. This is indeed a subject that we have been discussing for a long time. The fact that this takes time has to do with the fact that there is an assignment but that there is also a search to see if there is some money to be used for this purpose. I have already indicated to the Chamber that I will return as soon as I have succeeded. But I have always been very real about the expectations that exist. I'll do my best, but you can't ask the impossible of me. Therefore, from the fact that you have not received a letter from me, you can conclude that we are not yet ready to report anything to you. Mr. Chairman. Nor have I ever given the impression that we are going to hold up broadcasters that are going to fail. That's not a goal in itself either. What we do want is to support local broadcasters. We know that local broadcasting has also taken place. They took that initiative on their own. We understand that, and we will indeed support it where we can. Although it is not primarily my responsibility to do so, I do see possibilities, also in relation to the connection with the regional broadcasters. In fact, very nice cooperation has already been established in the country, but keeping broadcasters at risk of bankruptcy is not an end in itself. We look at what is possible to support local broadcasters in local formation or not. That's the assignment I took on. I do intend to give that clarity to the Chamber as soon as I have clarity. If we can do that in a week, that would be great. If I need more time... I can't come up with anything until I have something, but I think you'll understand that as well. I also understand the moment of the Spring Note, because I understand that the Chamber will want to be able to act if it is nothing or if it is insufficient. I will, of course, take that into account. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, there have been initial talks with the RPO. That was indeed the commitment I made in general consultation: to see whether the resources that have become available to them could be used in this way too. I have the impression that there is some light in the tunnel. It is primarily for the regional broadcasters, but when they can be used in this way and the regional broadcasters want to participate in it, that is indeed an opportunity to support it and to make the connection that we consider so necessary to each other. So I'm deceiving the motion. I will continue to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. The sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you very much. Was that your term, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u17	That was my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u18	Then there is a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u19	As soon as possible, we've been hearing that for a few months. In any case, I note that the commitment that the coalition is asking for, namely do so within a week, cannot be made. That offers a perspective for my motion. The minister says keeping broadcasting is not an end in itself. That is true, but the motion specifically calls for the maintenance of regional broadcasting, a development actively supported by this Ministry. It is a development which the Ministry welcomes in order to ensure that we do not lose broadcasters which will have to be re-established in the future, pending further measures announced earlier. We are not asking that a broadcasting company should never go bankrupt until the end of the day. If they go bankrupt, it's incredibly worthless, but then it happens. It is this particular short period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have already indicated that I will do what I can to see if we can get money available for local broadcasters, whether regional or not, who have gathered in regional broadcasting. That has really been an initiative of its own. This is not organised by The Hague; they have invented this together. It is a thought that we can follow in our own right. It's not an obligation or an obligation for everyone to do it like this. We will support them where it can if opportunities are found. I have told you many times, and that is still the state of affairs, that it is still quite complicated for us to find out exactly what the financial situation is, because we still do not have the data we need. Anyway, we are doing what we can and I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u21	Fine. Mr Van der Molen, just a brief point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u22	Three parties have asked the Minister to inform us within a week of the implementation of Mr Sneller's motion. Mr Kwint said that the Minister did not make a very explicit commitment to this. I would like to give the Minister that opportunity again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u23	If I have anything to say, I'll come. If I can do that in a week, I'll be there in a week. If I need more time, I need more time. That's how real it is. I'm doing my best, you know, and it's working hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u24	Then I cannot rule out the fact that next week we will be asking for a letter from the Minister who should have been received by the Chamber on the same day, because that is simply a clear deadline which is also requested by the Chamber. I don't need to confirm that the Minister is doing his best. That's my standard assumption, because that's my experience, too. I would ask the Minister once again to inform the Chamber of his follow-up, as requested here, within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm sticking to my previous answer. I'll do what I can. If you can do that in a week, I'll report it to you in a week. If I need more time, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u26	Clear. Mr. Aartsen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u27	At the same time. My question was not so much whether the Minister could answer us positively, my question was to receive a letter within a week with hob or calf. Even if the conclusion is: we cannot carry out the motion adopted by the Chamber; I would like to know within a week. I would ask the Minister once again to make a commitment at least within a week, even if that is negative. Then we as a Chamber can take action, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u28	That's no problem at all. I was wondering if you'd like to hear some positive news from me within a week. I can tell by your eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u29	Preferably.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u30	Let me be honest: I share that desire. It would be nice if we could do something, but I can't report anything until there's something to report. But I'll inform you about the state of play next week anyway. That's no problem at all. If I've misunderstood you, Mr. Van der Molen, and if that's what you meant, then this is also an answer to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u31	The voltage is increased to the maximum. It's gonna be an exciting weekend for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u32	I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u33	That's what we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-8.u34	I thank the Minister for his presence. We shall vote on the motion on Tuesday.
