ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office on the European General Reviews 2019. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. During my student days, as editor of the Groningen historical magazine Groniek, I wrote a review of an intellectual biography that Frits Boterman had just shown the light. His protagonist was mentioned earlier today. That was Oswald Spengler, a troubled intellectual who predicted the decline of Western civilization with his Untergang des Abendlandes from 1918. For some time Spengler was allowed to look forward to great public interest, including that of the National Socialists. But even they were done with Spengler's glorification of a never-existent past and his doom-thinking of a never-to-real future over time. Spengler became a lone collector of books and antique weapons and died disillusioned in 1936. At the time, I had to make considerable efforts to make some chocolate out of Spengler's ideas and the way in which he drew from all kinds of sources to make them visible. The morphological doom thinking was as strange to me as the glorification of civilizations of which we all know how many sacrifices these have cost ordinary people. People who leave far less resources than pharaohs, emperors, renaissance princes, solar kings and dictators commit to do. The fact that it was all better in the past is a persistent misunderstanding. That is the first lesson that can be drawn from history. Even the owl of Minerva gives this to her chicks. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we live in a world that is much safer, healthier and more prosperous than ever is the result of a combination of technological progress, changed social relations and the way in which we have organised ourselves as a society. There is no reason to be pessimistic about this, although we must remain vigilant in order to preserve the good and there is a complete task to meet new challenges effectively. The latter brings me to today's subject: the State of the European Union and the challenges it faces. These challenges are well known as such, and I summarize them as follows: how can European cooperation contribute to ensuring a society in which everyone is sure of a good existence, without compromising our planet? Then there are a number of acute challenges, in particular securing our common values, changing geopolitical power relations and the direct threat to our common external border, irregular and uncontrolled migration, technological developments, good and well-paid work for all and our duty to keep the earth viable for future generations. Mr. Chairman. Such close cooperation as the European Union requires respect for the values of the democratic rule of law, compliance with agreements and the transparency and legitimacy of decision-making. The experience of recent years shows that, unfortunately, this is not always self-evident. This could include the erosion of independent justice, journalism and the academy in Hungary and Poland, or the irresponsible blundering of the British Government and the British Parliament in relation to the planned Brexit. And yes, also because of the way in the Netherlands has been contributing for so long to promoting tax avoidance of multinationals. This is an unacceptable practice which MEP and Social Democrat Paul Tang, with great persistence, has called for attention against the current. It is precisely in this context that it is essential for Europe to have strong institutions that limit this. Institutions that are not lived by the delusion of the day or by political horse-trading. I am thinking here of the position of the European Court of Justice, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the European Court of Auditors and the European Banking Authority. But I am also thinking of the European treaties and laws and regulations that guide their actions. Where does the Minister see opportunities for more effective operation of these institutions, for combating abuses and for promoting our values? Does my group read well in the recently published State of the European Union that the Cabinet, together with Parliament, therefore intends to take more room for both Chambers of the States-General to express wishes and ideas for new European policies and European legislation, through the so-called 'green card' procedure? In that State, reference is also made to a peer review mechanism to be introduced in the field of the rule of law, including a link to voting rights and the acquisition of European funds. Can the Minister confirm that in this case he will also take to heart criticism of Dutch practices and that he will not act defensively in advance? In addition to the aforementioned Dutch reputation as a tax haven, consideration can be given to the sinister way in which the directives and recommendations of the Group of States against Corruption, GRECO, of the Council of Europe have so far been handled. The concept presented today is making the mind more positive again. The government's position on the pulse fishing dossier is also exemplary for the alleged self-same, however painful this may be for fishermen in the Netherlands. The government reiterates in the State the importance of each Member State's compliance with its commitments. According to the government, the difference in the implementation of legislation affects the trust, credibility and legitimacy of the EU as a whole. This also applies to fair enforcement and application of legislation in all Member States. In this context, my group is surprised that the government is suddenly calling for guidelines in general rather than regulations a little further down the road in the State. It is precisely these broad lines that really allow for different interpretations of their own, and they can be a serious obstacle to precisely those things that the government considers so important. In this context, consider the great differences between the relatively vague way in which the GDPR has been given hands and feet in our country and the much clearer line chosen by, for example, the British Government. What is the government's signal to the Dutch exporting and foreign-producing companies when it comes to privacy measures related to GDPR? Is the signal that they have to figure it out on their own the moment they cross the border? And that we accept that suddenly it is quite different, with all the vulnerabilities of that? Can the Minister indicate whether and how he is going to promote convergence in the coming years? Mr. Chairman. The fact that Europe's relationship with the United States, China and Russia is changing requires vision and helmsmanship. Such a vision must be underpinned by our values. Otherwise, every solution is worthless. At the same time, more confident and assertive European action is needed. The EU Global Strategy 2016 and the Common Foreign and Security Policy provide a good political basis for this, but implementation lags behind ambitions and challenges. The need for effective coordination is high, as the government in the State of the European Union states. Clustering Commissioners with large external powers under the High Representative is an important step. It must be continued and deepened by the next Commission. In addition, unanimity practice within the CFSP affects the EU. The introduction by the Commission of qualified majority decision-making in sub-areas such as sanctions, human rights positions in multilateral fora and the implementation of civilian CFSP missions can make the EU significantly more effective, effective and therefore credible. It is striking, however, that, although the government is in favour of this, it is not without reservations that decisions on the addition of sub-areas to qualified majority voting should be stopped if necessary. Of course, it is always necessary to look critically at decision-making processes, but it would be a good thing for the government to be less defensive about this and to play a proactive role in promoting majority decision-making within the European Union. As far as my group is concerned, this goes beyond foreign policy. The integrity of our external borders also requires, of course, an adequate defence organisation. It is unwise to continue to approach this issue from a national perspective. However, the government does so in the State of the European Union, with difficult wordings such as "The Cabinet is committed to an EU that facilitates an output-oriented, result-oriented approach by the Member States, and stresses the importance of political direction by the Council to ensure the intergovernmental nature of defence cooperation." That does not make my group very happy. Nor is it sustainable, as it appears in the State, as the government writes: "Strengthening the European technological and industrial base, generating credible European defence capabilities and strengthening the readiness and employability of these capabilities are necessary in this context." How should we interpret these confusing signals, we ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u3	I had Mr Postema's speech dealt with me for a moment. Do I understand that he says that in order to be effective in foreign policy, we must give up our national veto in a number of areas, but that is not the end of it? He has also spoken about the external borders, and perhaps defence will be added; in these areas we must abandon our national veto. I therefore understand that the PvdA Group believes that, when it comes to foreign and defence policy, it is no longer primarily the Member States. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u4	I'd have approached it the other way around. I wanted to make a plea for the promotion of majority voting. When it comes to the veto itself, we have already discussed this in various debates this morning. I can very well imagine that, for example, the decision-making on an effective military commitment is very much behind the line when you are talking about candidates for majority decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u5	I really don't understand. You say you put it the other way around, from the point of view of majority decision-making. But majority decision-making doesn't mean you're gonna give up your veto?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u6	I wanted to choose my own words. I did not talk about giving up our national veto; I wanted to talk about promoting majority decision-making within the functioning of the European Union. That is something that the SP Group may laugh about today, which has happened many times today, but I am seriously trying to point out here that we have a lot of areas in which the lack of majority decision-making is extremely delaying, stagnant and sometimes actually destructive. So my appeal to the Minister is to look at this particularly constructively, and I can imagine once again that certain things will not be mentioned directly on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u7	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u8	Mr Postema is, of course, talking about his own words. But I simply have a very simple question to ask him: does Mr Postema agree with us and with the government who writes that literally in answering our questions when it comes to common foreign and security policy and qualified majority voting, for example, you actually give up your national veto if you decide by majority? Isn't that one and the same? You can say that you prefer to call it sister or something, but in fact it is the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u9	It is not a question of whether I am naming things as Mr Van Apeldoorn would like, but of trying to argue that there are all kinds of things within the Union's reach that are hindered in our view by the fact that there is no room for majority decision-making. Within these numbers of subjects, we believe that we should promote the formation of majority voting. Speaking only about giving up the national veto is precisely the framing of which I say, and that is what I would also like to say to the SP spokesperson: we are not getting anywhere with it when it is in the papers: the First Chamber is in favour of giving up the national veto. If this is the debate that the SP Group wants to have, it is not the right place for us. We have a more nuanced debate, it is about putting into question all kinds of areas of decision-making. To be honest, I find myself in good company when I read in the State of the European Union that it is possible to look at civilian security missions, which you can imagine very well that you do not want to be put in your shirt as a European Union that everyone should agree with every time. When it comes to human rights, for example, it cannot be that one of the countries raises its finger after which it does not proceed. That's exactly what I wanted to argue. The question of whether it will be one for all, or not everyone for themselves, also arises when it comes to the question of the Union's enlargement strategy. The accession negotiations with Albania and northern Macedonia are particularly urgent. Mrs Strik also referred to the issue of the Western Balkans. In June, the European Council must take a decision on this and so far the Netherlands has been particularly slow. In the light of the foregoing, and I hope that colleagues will recognise the position that my group has sought to take in recent years, we ask the government not to slow down, but to steer. This applies to many European dossiers, and in particular to the geopolitical importance of making the Western Balkans part of the Union. What helmsmanship can we expect in this way, we ask the Minister. The integrity of our external borders also relates to how Europe is able to provide an adequate response to regular and irregular migration flows from outside the Union. This requires a major adjustment of the Common European Asylum System, including effective Frontex and EASO agencies. As such, the integrated approach at EU level, as advocated by my party colleague Kati Piri and set out in the national-wide migration agenda, provides a good basis for this. The question to the Minister is why it is not possible to come up with a common European approach. And more importantly, how he can justify, on behalf of the government, that there are even unacceptable movements in the wrong direction, such as the recent decision not to allow the European military patrol mission Sophia to help any more refugees in need in the Mediterranean. A maritime mission without ships, leaving drownings to their fate, is the last thing we want. Can the Minister state his position on this matter? What is the Dutch commitment when it comes to bringing boat migrants to safety? Mr. Chairman. The European Union has an important role to play in promoting sustainable economic growth, strengthening competitiveness and creating prosperity and employment. In this context, it is worrying that the multilateral trading system has been put under such pressure over the past year. Protectionism, state capitalism and the further scaling and dominance of tech companies constitute a toxic cocktail, in which winner-takes-all situations arise that are at the expense of healthy competition, transparent markets and ensuring the security of supply, affordability and privacy of products and services. The European project urgently needs a market authority for the 21st century, which sets strict limits on market power, unsustainable production and the monopolisation and trading of personal data. This market authority should also take into account situations that require cooperation rather than competition in the public interest, as is the case in the care, childcare and network-based sectors. Can the Minister undertake to work for such a European market authority, including the relationship with European procurement rules and the European Data Protection Board, and to inform the Chamber of progress on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u10	This subject has already been raised a few times, but not yet in the context that Mr Postema has mentioned. Let me get this straight: what exactly does he have in mind? A separate authority, so not belonging to the current Commissioner for Competition? A bit like the ACM in relation to the Dutch government? Is that the construction he sees in front of him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u11	It is always a bit difficult to export exactly the Dutch context to Europe. I think you should be a little careful with that. But my group notes that, after the completion of the internal market, only market mechanisms have been constantly embroidered, without looking at the consumer side. We have also had a few debates on this this morning. When it comes to the procurement directive, but also when it comes to, for example, cooperation structures in the care sector, we are being obstructed. We would like to see an authority with a longer institutional life than the person of a Commissioner in that reordering of the European market really come into the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u12	Then I understand better what Mr Postema means, but then I suspect it is inevitable that when you set up an authority, there are also powers that allow him to intervene. You mention a number of issues, such as care and the social domain, in which this authority does not yet exist to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u13	The suggestion is that a market authority will only make statements and impose decisions that will only lead to more competition, but that is very much the question. That really depends on the status of such an authority. I think that we have had a number of successes over the last 50 years when it comes to the market organisation - you yourself referred to this - but at the same time we have missed a number of great opportunities for consumers. When a market authority has a clear statute to protect those positions, I can imagine that giving something of a mandate to that authority would be an excellent mechanism for European citizens. In fact, it is as we do with our own Authority Consumer & Market. They're never quite institutions with the popularity prize, but I think that's going really well in the Netherlands. I do not know why this could not work on a European scale when it comes to those larger mechanisms of European procurement, European tech giants and what more. Mr. Chairman. My group sees that the necessary social policy has been achieved in recent years. Member States are primarily responsible for well-functioning labour markets and effective social policies, but the positive and negative effects of these policies make coordination urgently desirable. The Detachings Directive fought by Agnes Jongerius is a good example of this. In this context, it is important for the European Labour Authority to start this year, so that a real start is made on the implementation of commitments made in this area. It is important, however, on the basis of what basis and with what mandate this Labour Authority will function. In particular, when it comes to cross-border labour mobility, there is still no consistency when we translate the principle of equal pay for equal work into everyday practice. The recent debate on the export of WW benefits is a good but gloomy example of this. In this context, we expect a clear and consistent position from the Dutch Government. What does equal pay for equal work mean for collecting and paying social security contributions, long-term care contributions, child benefit and pension? And how does the answer to these questions relate to the scope and mandate of the European Labour Authority set up? Through Minister Blok, we ask the Minister of SZW to provide this clarity in the shortest possible time. Mr. Chairman. The chapter on European climate policy is probably the most ambitious of the State of the European Union. And as such, that is right, because the task is great and urgent. It is striking how the cabinet demands a role as a forerunner for our country. As far as this ambition is concerned, my group wholeheartedly supports it. But we are also looking at the results actually achieved and they are far from satisfactory. It is not getting better but worse in practice so far, and it remains careful not to put things off. It is also important to be honest with citizens and businesses about what they can and cannot expect and what we expect from them. There is no cover-up in this. It should also be clear when the government does and when it does not intend to turn a head on European policy in this area. For example, with the transition to a circular agriculture, the government has indicated its commitment to closing the cycle of raw materials as much as possible by 2030. That sounds promising. But what exactly is "as much" possible? Can the Minister express that as a percentage? And where does this not work? And why not, so we ask the Minister. This also applies to the government's objective of minimising emissions. Is this really what the government is planning? Is this, then, minimalisation based on a certain size of livestock and agricultural areas, for example? Or is minimized really too? My group also has a problem with one-liners that'sustainable fuels, vehicles and infrastructure must be promoted' and that ambitious European source policies aimed at reducing emissions are necessary for this. But what and how much exactly are we going to stimulate, with what intended effect? So far, citizens have not been able to tie in with the policy of sustainable mobility. This also applies to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u14	Can I have a political comment in the direction of Mr Postema? He noted so sharply that three coalition groups were quite critical of the cabinet. Now an opposition group is speaking, at least across the street. Could I invite Mr Postema to take a constructive view of the issues he is now discussing, such as climate, when ambitious legislation is going to be passed in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u15	I can make that commitment right away. Whether or not to encourage electric driving, whether or not to price road traffic, whether or not to invest a flight tax and a kerosene charge, whether or not to invest seriously and consistently in public transport facilities for the future? I can go on like this for a while. It would be a credit to the cabinet if the ministers of EZK, LNV, IenW and Finance jointly agreed on a consistent agenda in this area. Now that the elections for Provincial States are over, can we expect this from the government, we ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with a positive note. Europe has much to do, and it can use all our country's efforts and support, including support for Frans Timmermans' candidacy for the Presidency of the European Commission. This support is reflected in the most recent state of the European Union. Let us now take action in Brussels and in The Hague. And start this tomorrow, because in the eveningland we wake up every morning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 9 May, in three weeks' time, a long-announced informal summit of European Heads of Government will begin in Sibiu, Romania. It is planned on Europe Day, and this symbolic choice strengthens the importance of the summit. It had to happen in Sibiu. Expectations have been raised over the past year by citizens' consultations on the future of Europe, which have taken place in many countries throughout Europe on a proposal from President Macron. In the Netherlands, this consultation took place through a number of studies and small-scale discussions conducted by the SCP and the Verwey-Jonker Institute, not to be confused with the Verwey-Juncker Institute. Donald Tusk, the President of the Council, presented his Leaders Agenda in September 2017, partly on the occasion of the Brexit that was already coming. This agenda was designed to smooth out a number of issues, including migration, and strengthened European consultation. A context of new ideas was called it. It had to happen in Sibiu. But now the ambitions have been considerably reduced, so the omens show. In Romania, it is only the priorities for the coming years. Probably the lingering Brexit will cast a great shadow over the agenda again. Europe is more than a geographical concept, but often less than an answer, I quote the British-American historian Tony Judt. He writes: "Calling the promise of a united Europe does not mean solving and recognising persistent problems, as if there is a strong collective European political awareness." I think there is also an answer to the discussion we had just now. There is no European demos. This also means that collective political awareness in Europe is weak. The European Union is held together. The good news may have been that it has endured the crises of recent decades, but big agendas and big words are not helping to mask this. The reality of Sibiu will be much mudder and more pragmatic than the pre-announcements have suggested. Europe is often less than an answer. I wouldn't quote this out of cynicism, that wouldn't fit me. I believe in a European community of rights and values. The Roman-Christian idea of universal law is a unique European invention. The Netherlands must be part of the European Union's cooperation and go for it, I also say to all those who say the word 'nexit'. However, it is more than ever time for a realistic approach, especially now, when citizens express their scepticism about an all-pervading European Union and their distrust of European decision-making unflagged and sometimes very sharp. Of course, we've seen that in the last few months. The SCP study I mentioned, our citizen consultation, shows this: citizens see the usefulness and importance of Europe and of membership of the European Union, but they have much more limited confidence in European institutions and European decision-making. The internal market has removed control and created vacant responsibilities, and that is what citizens feel. In 2013, the Council of State spoke of "democratic alienation" in relation to Europe. The Council of State considered this phenomenon to be "very significant." And yes, what has changed since then? The tone of European leaders with their 'leader's agenda' and 'context of new ideas', which have a lot of suggestions but little effect, only stimulates the fire of unease. Europe is often less than an answer. Mr. Chairman. Realism begins with recognition that more Europe will not solve all major problems. More Europe often brings citizens more uncertainty and less control over things that happen close to home. Realism means recognizing that everything cannot happen all at once and that there are different speeds and opportunities for cooperation, out of respect for the fact that the European Union is finally a partnership. Our own WRR advocates this "reality sense" in its study on European variations. The self-evidentness of continuing integration has disappeared, according to the WRR. 25 years after the Maastricht Treaty, it is necessary to look at the functioning of the internal market and to learn lessons. The WRR considers that variation between Member States is possible and works out for example for competition law in order to weigh national public interests against market interests. Member States may give priority to their own rules and practices. This seems to my group to be a crucial insight and, in fact, a welcome new starting point for the review of European policies. The cabinet accepted this point, I saw in the cabinet response of 21 December last. The same idea of variation exists in the European Parliament, which has adopted another word for it, namely 'different integration'. That seems to me to be European newspeak, but there is therefore differentiated integration which we call 'European variation'. Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes this movement and this sense of reality. The way in which the European Services Directive has been developed in a number of sectors illustrates the perverse functioning of a rigidly applied framework of market rules that Member States have to comply with. At present, the Amsterdam City Council is debating the licensing system for tour boats, whereby established companies who have made large investments and are familiar with the local situation are losing their licences, because a European level playing field needs to be created and there must be room for competition from outside. The result is despair and unrest everywhere in the sector, created by European competition law, with the prospect of a devastating race the bottom. And that on the water. Then it gets really dangerous! Earlier in today's debate, similar examples emerged. I am therefore pleased that this issue has been raised by several colleagues. Here, space is needed to make own considerations. It takes room for variation. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. How does he see this national variation in practice? The cabinet indicates in several places...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u18	Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u19	I was just thinking about Mr Kuiper's interesting speech. Do you mind if I go back to the Citizen's Perspectives for a second? We have also had an interrupting debate on this. My point is that the percentage against or critical is made greater than it really is. In the Citizen's perspective, the thesis is: "People like me experience mainly disadvantages from the disappearance of borders and the opening up of the economy." 46% disagree. That percentage has actually increased since 2010. 18% agree. 18%. Then you can say, "God, I'm gonna lose a hell of a percentage." That's the middle part of "don't know." That is the percentage that is also very impressionable. The argument that the views of the people in the Netherlands are so clearly on the critical side, as you once again argue, seems to me to be questionable. That's what I'd like to tell you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u20	I think I've involved a nuanced position. I did not go into that or that graph from the survey, but I said that membership of the European Union is appreciated. That's the big line. You also mention these examples. I think we are all happy with the opportunities to travel or pay with the same currency all over Europe. That's the convenience of the citizen. At the same time, there is scepticism and resistance to European institutions and what they do in certain sectors in the national context. I just mentioned an example of that. There are natural multiples. Mr Van Apeldoorn has also mentioned a number of examples in which it is quite obvious that it really is different, including in the experience of citizens. Mr. Chairman. My question to the cabinet was to indicate what it is going to do with the observation that national variation is possible. In a cabinet response to the WRR report that I mentioned, this is addressed, but that is also happening in the State of the Union. There, the cabinet says that the further establishment of the internal market and, in particular, the services market can be improved and speeded up by means of "the State of the Union', and I quote "regional and sector-specific agreements'. I'd like some clarification on that. What does this mean for the government's policy on the weighting of public interests against market interests, for example in the case of European competition or in the case of the protection of social rights in the Netherlands? Are measures taken by the Cabinet in preparation? Mr. Chairman. This informal summit in Sibiu has also been on the agenda for a long time for our cabinet. Can the Minister indicate with what expectation the Dutch Government is travelling to Romania? I would like to receive a reflection and assessment of the broader political situation we are in right now, especially in the light of the Brexit. According to the cabinet, what does the Brexit delay mean for the European Union itself? For a few weeks now, since the last postponement decisions, there seems to be uncertainty on both sides, not only on the British side, but also on the European side, where Britain's final status does not matter much anymore, if it is not 'out' or 'in'. That creates a great deal of uncertainty and I would like to hear the government's position on this. Mr. Chairman. As regards the commitment to specific issues on the agenda, we have been informed by the State of the Union. Migration, sustainable economy, security and climate are all important issues that will require a realistic approach. With regard to migration and asylum, we can well follow the approach of the cabinet, but that will not change the attitude of the countries of Eastern Europe. There's a threat of a stalemate. In which direction does the Minister see a way out? Or will we indeed have to accept that a common solution cannot be found? We already had an interesting suggestion from Mr Schaap on this point this morning. I would very much like to hear the Minister's response to this. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is committed to an ambitious European climate policy. Minister Wiebes briefed the Chambers on his efforts to bring other European countries to 55% C0 reduction in 2030. In this context, it is important that the cabinet also shows internally that it succeeds in delivering ambitious climate policies and measures. Otherwise, we will be putting on big pants in Europe, while we still have to deliver the real performance ourselves. My group regrets the fact that the national debate on this issue is becoming a story about the account. The bill is important, but it's not the whole story. If the commitment to the creation, our earth, the viability of parts of our world, the preservation of biodiversity and the rescue of ice caps should not cost us anything, if that becomes a sort of bottomline, then what drives us to do this? We need a positive story about our commitment to our own world and our planet. We have long known that our ecological footprint is too large, that the earth cannot handle the western lifestyle, that the world is destroying consumerism, but now that the awareness of the need for real measures is widespread, resistance is also starting to rise. Can we count on the cabinet when it comes to telling the story here? Finally, my group would like to express its appreciation for the government's commitment to a more democratic Europe. This concerns, for example, transparency of European decision-making processes and an explicit role of national parliaments. That role can develop further. I have regularly spoken about this in these General European Reviews. This also includes intensive traffic between these parliaments and their own government. The State of the Union makes good suggestions for this. The status and exchange of information between government and Chambers has now been agreed. A legal anchoring of this information and the method to be followed is advocated by the Remkes Committee. My group is in favour of a 'Europe law', which this committee has referred to, and has made known before. In the past there have been reservations, but in the meantime the system of agreements has been developed in such a way that it is appropriate to consolidate them and to anchor them legally. This will contribute to transparency, a recognizable contribution from Parliament to European legislation and the development of permanent working patterns between the Chamber and the Government. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u21	I think it is a very nice speech by Mr Kuiper. I can follow him in a very broad sense and agree with him on a lot of points. On the issue of transparency, I had a question. Is Mr Kuiper familiar with the Transparency International report on the functioning of the Eurogroup? It states that the Eurogroup is, in fact, an economic government in many respects, but at the same time it is perhaps the EU's most opaque body, which is in fact not subject to any control at all and is not subject to any accountability. Would Mr Kuiper perhaps like to ask the government with us if that point could also be achieved with greater transparency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u22	Of course. I think this illustrates a broader problem within the European Union. How can national parliaments, national parliamentarians, who have of course been placed in a position since Lisbon to play their own role, make Europe more democratic and transparent through their national governments? And, of course, that also applies to those institutions where those governments act in or who have been given a certain mandate by that government. So, yeah, you have to. You know me. You know that in recent years I have been working on this. I therefore believe that the idea of such a European law, as advocated by the Remkes Committee and advocated earlier, is very important for the movement between the Chamber and the Government in order to clearly describe all the agreements, including, for example, the case you claim. Thank you for agreeing to my speech. That's always good. Mr. Chairman. There's been more swans today. For me too, these were my last European reflections, which I had been able to hold on behalf of my group almost every year since its introduction in 2011. I've done it with great pleasure. I've been looking back at everything that's changed. I think we have had very nice debates in this house with successive Foreign Minister. Today, too, I look forward with unabated interest to the Government's answers to the questions I have asked. Europe may sometimes be less than an answer, but I expect more from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the SP... the 50PLUS Group. Yeah, it's become so common. The 50PLUS fraction. Mr. Chairman. In February, the 16-year-old leader of the climate strikers, Greta Thunberg, was in Brussels to address the European Commission critically. On behalf of tens of thousands of students, she called for political action and a different way of thinking. I quote: "The current political system is about competition and power and that must stop. We need to work together and share the planet's resources fairly. We still have eleven years before the dominoes fall over and we get into a greenhouse situation that can't be reversed anymore." The Party for Animals and 50PLUS recognize themselves in the words of Gretha. The passivity of European politicians is appalling. For example, one of the biggest drivers of climate change, the livestock industry, is not only spared, but also heavily subsidised. The ETS system appears to be toothless in the fight against climate change, and aviation is spared the use of CO emissions. It characterizes the imbalance between the different interests within the EU. The climate sacrificed on the altar of the economy. When will the EU finally take action to address the greatest threat to our European future and to the world's future? Mr. Chairman. The shady appointment of top European officials, the imprecise enlargement to include new Member States and the ill-thought-out project of a common currency for Member States with different economic temperaments and in another phase of development have all led to declining solidarity between Member States and cynicism among the European population. The EU appears to have become a project of politicians who are blindly opting for a federal Europe and who have lost sight of the link with the citizens. The number of competences of the EU is increasing, while national parliaments play the second violin. A substantial part of the Dutch States-General believes that the transfer of sovereignty and accession of new Member States should be regulated by qualified majority. Is the Minister prepared to meet that wish, and if so, in what way? Mr. Chairman. The British decided to leave the club. However, the Brexit makes it painfully clear that the EU has turned into a densely-grown labyrinth, whose exit appears to have become untraceable. It's Hotel California: you can get in, but you can't get out. The Animal Party and 50PLUS have a lot of doubts about the EU, but we very much believe in European cooperation. This is not a plea for a nexit, but a plea for a more transparent, more democratic and, above all, more animal, human and climate-friendly Europe. Europe is not taking sufficient action against the climate crisis. It makes sense for young and old to rise up. It is not just the students, but also the grandparents who are fighting for climate improvement. Seniors recognize the importance of leaving a living world to subsequent generations, their children and grandchildren. The young people of today and future generations must not be burdened with the problems arising from today's unbridled CO emissions. However, the EU leaves the door wide open to lobby groups who want to put their feet on the brakes and leave everything behind. The power of the meat lobby became painfully clear last week. At that time, a special proposal emerged from the European Committee on Agriculture. The names of the current meat substitutes would be misleading to the consumer and should therefore be banned. People could accidentally grab a vegaburger from the shelves, when they actually wanted to throw a hamburger in the pan that night. It is clear that the meat industry must be maintained at all costs. Today we know that the world's arable area could feed 4 billion more mouths if we processed the yield directly for human consumption rather than for meat consumption. But the EU, against global trends and climate targets, still opts for money above the planet for the short term over the long term. How does the EU intend to achieve the Paris agreement and objectives with these short-sighted proposals? On several occasions, the Dutch cabinet has said that it does not see anything in proposals to protect meat from plant alternatives. The Party for Animals is doing a lot of good. I ask the Minister to take up the same position in the Netherlands. What is the Dutch government's commitment to banning meat names for vegetarian products? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It's spring, according to many, the best time of the year. But how much longer? Europe still does not restrict the use of fertilizers. The European fields once again colour massive orange, because many farmers continue to spray their crops with this extremely toxic product. Last year, the government had the chance to take a short look at this annual phenomenon, but under pressure from CDA and LTO, it chose the path of the least resistance. The result is that for five years to come the European arable crops may continue to be poisoned. The government based its decision on an investigation that showed that arthropods was not carcinogenic after all. The fact that that investigation came from Monsanto's own pen was apparently not relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u25	We will not be discussing the risk posed by arthropods now, because then we will have to go back to all those investigations that have been carried out. But which arable crops are now massively poisoned by turnips? Can you tell me a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u26	It is not so much about arable crops. It is a question of the threat to human health and to the number of insects. That's what our biggest concern is for. All these pesticides mean that we are currently facing a dramatic reduction in the number of insects. This is a 75% reduction in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u27	I don't see the connection between insects and turnips at all. But I was concerned about the easy, apodical sentence that was said, namely that there is a mass spray of fertilizers on arable crops, whereas no example can be given. That can't be given either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u28	It is simply a fact that the use of fertilizers on agricultural land is allowed within the European Union for the next five years. We see the fields all orange colors. Then we can at least establish a link between that authorisation and the use of satsumas. I think that's pretty obvious here. With your approval, I'll continue. Glyphosate can simply be used for another five years. The use of pesticides is an important cause of the alarming decrease in the number of insects. Only a change in European policy can turn the tide. Almost 40% of the European budget is devoted to the common agricultural policy. That's 365 billion. The ever more intensive agriculture on which the common European agricultural policy has been leading for decades, with economies of scale, pesticides and the deterioration of arable crops, leads, among other things, to a loss of biodiversity. Our country is increasingly turning into a monotonous, silent, lifeless turf. Meadows like larks, gruttos and partridges have become a rarity. Almost all the birds that occur on the meadow, put and decay and many are threatened with extinction. We're running out of time. The Animal Party and 50PLUS want the EU to work seriously on organic farming without pesticides and other poisons. The harmful and dierron-friendly livestock industry must stop. We must switch to plant, animal-friendly, extensive agriculture with a good price for farmers. The next period of the common agricultural policy offers opportunities for this. If we do not seize it, it will be very difficult, if not impossible, to reverse the tide of biodiversity. National delta plans for biodiversity conservation also depend on this. The first negotiations on the next CAP are now taking place. It can be seen that Member States choose the lowest level of player in terms of competitiveness. The Animal Party and 50PLUS believe that environmental measures under the CAP should be mandatory and proven effective, in the interests of biodiversity, climate and food security. The CAP must be prevented from countering a national sustainable transition. Will the Minister make a commitment to this in Brussels? The EU is slowly coming out of one of the worst economic crises in years. In order to keep up with European budgetary standards, the Netherlands had to make a lot of savings. That was painful. People lost their jobs, pensions were not indexed for years, and people had to wait months for specialist care or were forced to sell their homes at a loss. These are blows that a human being can't get over easily. Older people, in particular, are the child, but this will also apply to future generations, who see their pensions evaporate. Many European citizens are investors through their pension fund. Checking the level of coverage of pension fund is not sufficient. The coverage rate of a pension fund is only a snapshot. Much more interesting is the question of how pension funds expect to generate the required returns in the future. Monetary expansion, QE, has helped to ensure that yields on bonds have never been so low. As a result, the available invested capital needs to increase in order to meet future obligations. Companies are increasingly forced to pay up in their pension fund. This reduces the scope for dividend payments to shareholders. The evolution of the stock price can be guessed. We're taking an advance on an uncertain future, and that's unwise. We pay the bill to a thrifty generation, who abandoned after the war and worked hard. That too is unwise. There should therefore be no less but more monetary control for the Member States. Mr. Chairman. There is still a world to be won, especially in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u29	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I realize that as a tenth speaker, I am pretty much in the broom truck, along with Mr Ten Hoeve. I hope I can boost the concentration capacity by saying that I'm going to be joining up with recent world news. It was world news last week. For the first time in the history of mankind, scientists managed to capture a black hole on the sensitive record. In order to photograph this astronomical phenomenon, eight telescopes had to be connected worldwide, including in Hawaii, the South Pole, Chile and Spain. An achievement of magnitude! In my mind, I discovered some striking similarities between those black holes on the one hand and the European Union on the other. Both phenomena have something extremely awesome. For both, they are of unprecedented complexity. And both phenomena have a natural tendency to suck up and absorb everything around them. I'll start with awesome. The awesomeness of black holes lies among other things in their dazzling and incomprehensible size and distance from the earth. We realize how small we are and how little we still know about the earth and the universe. You must have a very big faith if you think that all this happened by accident after a big bang. How powerful is the hand of our Creator who "knows the number of the stars and calls them all by their name," as Psalm 147:4. The impressive thing about the EU is that it is making a contribution to peace, prosperity and stability on our continent. That's why we can't just pretend that a nexit solves all the problems. This would be at the expense of our jobs and our businesses, but it would also be a failure to recognise the common history that the European countries carry with them. A history marked in all manner of ways by the Christian tradition. All kinds of cross-border problems, such as pollution of the Rhine or trafficking in human beings, could be dealt with less effectively after a post-exit. So let us work smartly together in areas such as safety, agriculture, trade, transport and fisheries! Speaking of fisheries, how do we promote, in the context of the pulse warp failure, that the EU will in future encourage innovation rather than punish it? What steps are being taken to improve and strengthen Dutch advocacy within the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u31	I wanted to give some other signals about this in my contribution. Of course, it is extremely good to support our fishermen, but perhaps we should have done so a little earlier, when we could have warned that it should have been a 5% experiment and that it would not mean that we would have changed half the fleet before the laws and regulations had changed. Is that a perspective in which Mr Van Dijk recognizes himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u32	I certainly think that our cabinet, our rulers, could have been on this, sharper and perhaps more transparent. I note, however, that the end of the song is that a particular technique, which is more environmentally friendly, is better for soil and saves CO, is ultimately turned upside down. We can't be happy with that result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u33	Could Mr Van Dijk not look at it differently and see this as one of the examples I mentioned without mentioning pulse fishing in which we have a kind of defeat strategy from the Dutch Government? We're going to do something that we know isn't really meant to do. I am now reading that this is in tune with an overwhelming defeat of 571 for a ban and with 20 abstentions in the European Parliament. You line yourself up for a predictable defeat, you put a profession on the wrong foot, a profession you often stand up for, but the end of the song is that it's a defeat. Everyone gets the short cut. Wouldn't it be a sensible strategy to see that in time and use it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u34	Of course I agree with Mr Backer. I'm very negative about the end result. I suppose the cabinet is very well evaluating where it has missed points and where a not entirely justified presentation of things has been given. I think that would be very good for the evaluation. The SGP also advocates fairness and transparency and not double agendas. The final result is not enough, and I am indeed looking at the cabinet, because I would like to leave it at that. However, the result is that a technique on which everyone agrees that it saves fuel and is good for the environment and soil is made impossible. That's a mistake. Mr. Chairman. I spoke about the Dutch representation of interests, and I am thus touching on the second comparison I made between black holes and the EU, namely their complexity. When I read that matter rotates around a hole of 6.5 million times the weight of the sun in two days, so that in four nights of time so many petabytes of data could be collected that in two years an image could be formed based on radio radiation from the environment, then it dulls me! But who understands exactly how the EU works and how it works? Who still understands the ECB's interest rate policy in relation to the situation of the euro area's real economies? Or the relationship between the European Commission, which has a foothold everywhere, the European Court of Justice, the Council of Heads of Government, the Council of Ministers, the European Parliament and the national parliaments? Who decides what, where and when, on what basis? Higher astronomy... The problem with too complex systems is that no one has the overview anymore and that the cockpit is, as it were, empty. Does the Minister see this danger? What can we do about that together? A real concern in this light, as pointed out in the report of the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure, is that Parliament has an information deficit. How will the government respond to recommendations on, inter alia, the legal anchoring of agreements on information and involvement of the Chambers, on group support and on strengthening interparliamentary and horizontal cooperation with other national parliaments? Mr. Chairman. The third parallel between the black hole and the EU is its absorption capacity. An astronomer said strikingly: "We do not know where all that mass of the black hole remains." I would add that I do not know where all our national sovereignty and where our powers are, to be honest. Where a black hole is also called "supermassive," I see that the EU is getting serious features from a superstate. We shouldn't want that! The SGP says: cooperation yes, superstate no. That is not a hollow campaign phrase, but more topical and urgent than ever. I therefore urge the cabinet to put a brake on the transfer of further powers to the EU. No United States of Europe with Brussels as some kind of federal capital. On the contrary, we must move towards a Europe of modesty and diversity. The Member States must return to the wheel. As a concrete example, I would like to mention the French-German desire to establish a euro area budget that does not meet the Dutch conditions. If these countries continue to push ahead, then without the Netherlands! Can the Minister confirm that in that case the Netherlands will indeed opt out, as Minister Hoekstra rightly pointed out? In the end, we must return to the core in Europe. First of all, it is about the Core with a capital K: an EU that focuses on what matters in the most profound sense of the word, namely the fundamental biblical values and principles. To make this concrete: do not let the EU interfere with the policy freedom of Member States to determine how they deal with issues of life and death, with care, family, sexuality and education. Under no circumstances should the EU undermine the dignity of life, whether it is unborn or older. And let the EU really stand up for and make a spearhead of persecuted Christians and for a just treatment of Israel in international gremina. The EU really does not need to follow President Trump in everything, but when it comes to Israel, this American President may be a catchy example for the EU. In any case, I hope that the Minister will not be guided by those 25 European dignitaries who signed this weekend under a rather silly, open letter to EU foreign head Mogherini. Will the Minister assess the forthcoming US plan on its substantive merits? Returning to the core also means working for an EU that only focuses on the core tasks. An EU that does not bring about unnecessary and improper powers. In concrete terms, therefore, stop the "ever closer union" idea. More EU is not always better! Make sure that national parliaments have more influence. Therefore, I would like to say to my esteemed colleagues that I am not going to vote for a legislative proposal on the adoption of far-reaching European treaties with more than just that'majority of the day'. And let us simplify and deploy the instruments to influence EU decision-making, such as a yellow and orange card procedure, as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. I have drawn attention to the value of the EU, but also to its enormous complexity and its tendency to include ever more powers at the expense of the Member States. I am curious to hear the opinion of this cabinet on these ideas for a reformed and modest EU. After all, that is in our common interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u35	I have heard Mr Van Dijk mention the term 'black hole' five times. Does he realize that we have been able to see that black hole since last week thanks to the EU? The EU has provided financial support for a very large-scale investigation. That is why we now have images and can understand even better what that black hole actually means. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk does not think that this is the core task of the EU, but this support will allow him to have more comparative imagery here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u36	I would like to thank Mrs Strik for this nice interruption. For the record, I did not say that the EU is doing nothing but wrong. Well, here's a fine example you've given me that I'm grateful for. And you said it yourself: this could of course also be achieved very well through cooperation with each other. But I think you've made a nice interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u37	Well, what an incredibly fine reward for your interruption at Mr Van Dijk's speech. Great! I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u38	Finally, a swan song, Mr President, to use Mr Kuiper's term once again. We are not so used to it today, but almost every day the front pages of the newspapers. The forthcoming election to the European Parliament is of course important, because the big question is how many seats will be obtained by anti-EU parties. The ineffectual attempts so far to coordinate social services have just as shocked the Dutch public because of the export of WW benefits. And there is a dispute over the appointment of the Chief Prosecutor to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Where is the Dutch Government in this respect, by the way? That is what is being discussed in the Council, isn't it? Yet none of that is what constantly dominates the news. The news is dominated by the Brexit and the question whether or not. How a Brexit comes. So about that first. A no-dealbrexit is unfavorable for everyone, so that the date of retirement has been postponed again is justifiable. If that means that the UK will hold European elections and will provide new parliamentarians for Brussels who will take office on 1 July, this could throw Parliament's work out of balance. But luckily that will only have to last until the end of October, we hope. A further postponement of the Brexit will pose so many risks to the European Union that it is no longer an acceptable option. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to the termination of the Brexit, although the UK theoretically has that possibility. Within the EU, the Netherlands has in a number of ways had an ally to the United Kingdom for free trade and an Atlantic orientation, but the UK has also always been a hindrance in the EU, who reluctantly joined the Union and often tried to stop further development with its full weight. A customs union, as good neighbours, that would be nice, but rather no more control for the British. In fact, for the English, because of course they have always dominated British politics. But, even without the British, the further development of Europe will not be easy. The contrasts between north and south, and especially and increasing between west and east, are large and make a few important problems difficult to solve. The contradiction with the Multiannual Financial Framework focuses, if I see it correctly, on the Structural Funds and the common agricultural policy. In both cases, it should be a key objective of the EU to ensure that the various national economies converge as much as possible, i.e. to increase the level of prosperity and stability of the northern countries in particular. That is the responsibility of the national governments, as the government has always said, and rightly so, especially in terms of stability. But the funds obviously play an important role in the development of the regions. Because of their redistributing effect, they have the levelling effect that it aims to achieve. And as far as agricultural policy is concerned, I would not care very much how much money we put into it, if only it is used, just to help the necessary conversion of agriculture to natural inclusiveness. This is important for the whole of Europe, so where the money falls, is ultimately less important. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the conclusion is that we should not commit ourselves to a budget of 1% of GDP, but should let our commitment depend on the useful impact of the budget lines for the whole of the Union, and not just for the Netherlands. I note that the government has a slightly different approach so far. The other major and uncomfortable contradiction lies in the attitude towards migrants, which leads to the impossibility of achieving a common asylum and migration policy. Unfortunately, there is also the contradiction with regard to the rule of law, the rule of law or law. First of all, I have also pointed this out earlier: the Eastern countries, which are concerned, have a history that is not comparable to our Western European history. Mostly under foreign government, partly Turkish, partly divided among neighbouring countries, exposed to cultural assimilation coercion, and sometimes using the same methods themselves against even weaker neighbours. In any case, always aware that one's own nation is in danger and must be defended. Our many more open societies do not know that in this way and nevertheless show, but fortunately marginal, a similar reaction to what is felt as "Überfremdung." There may be some understanding for the choice of majorities here and there in the eastern states, for parties who claim to stand up for their own nation and therefore refuse migrants. Less understanding seems necessary to me in order to undermine the rule of law in some countries. The refusal of some countries to accept asylum seekers does not mean that there is no workable European asylum policy that relieves the countries of arrival by establishing a joint responsibility for reception and maintenance. Surely a European regime in which not all Member States participate is also possible? That has been said before this afternoon. We have a vanguard in more areas that participates in regulations and a rearguard that is not yet in place. Why not for asylum policy? I assume Italy would not object, nor would Hungary. The burden for us, who do want to join in, is of course greater, but now that Merkel is in her late days, must others also be willing to lead the way? Moreover, the limitation of influx and the return of rejected persons remain important, however difficult the latter is in practice. Using the European budget and the sentences to punish countries for their unwillingness, I would prefer not to use them for this, but only for possible breaches of European values, the rule of law or law. This has led us to matters relating to identity and nation. These are things that are important for many people and which are therefore important for Europe as well. Portugal and Iceland are the only countries in Europe that do not have indigenous national minorities; nationality questions can be solved everywhere, but they also pose problems. Europe is said to have no European people. That was also mentioned this afternoon. But my observation would be that many people feel part of their own nation state, but also feel European, just as many Frisians feel Friesian in the first place, but also Dutch. And as many Turks in the Netherlands feel Dutch, but also Turk. Citizenship has often underlined the legal status that it belongs to a nation, as European citizenship should also underline our part of Europe. A little more attention could be paid to this! It is precisely because citizenship is more than just a set of rights and obligations that sometimes emotional and practical problems can be solved. Hungarians in Romania can thus be granted Hungarian citizenship, alongside Romanian citizenship. And Moldovans can have Romanian citizenship, as Irish citizens in Northern Ireland have Irish citizenship alongside British citizenship. Perhaps South Tyroleans will soon be able to obtain Austrian citizenship alongside Italian citizenship. How does the government assess such double citizenship within the EU, and thus Austria's plan to make this possible for South Tyrolers? Sometimes there is also a problem that cannot be solved in this way, namely with nations without states. A few million Catalans feel part of the Catalan nation and explicitly not of the Spanish nation. A government that wants to deny that, which wants to deny such a nation, may well comply with the rule of law, but does it also comply with the European values of democracy? When is there a right to self-determination and to the possibility of a referendum on this subject, a right that was so generously distributed in Europe after the First World War? I have raised this before. Locking people up for what is no different than their political beliefs, I do not think it is in line with the principles of Europe. Now that the Madrid processes have begun, it is good to draw attention to this again. I realize that the government would rather not talk about it, but perhaps the Minister would like to respond. Mr. Chairman. A single business question at the end. The relationship with China is currently sensitive. In addition to the importance of trade and our own security, do the position of 1 million Uighurs in concentration camps and the repression of Tibet play a role in the discussion? A second question. Is there sufficient pressure from Europe on the Ukrainian Parliament to achieve real decentralisation or federalisation in order to actually implement the Minsk agreement in the eastern regions? Finally. The European Parliament has made a ruling that qualifies the Netherlands as a tax haven. How does the government care? Perhaps by thinking about majority decision-making in tax matters or even the CCCTB? I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. I'm looking at the minister. Is the Minister in a position to respond immediately? At 6.30 p.m. I scheduled a dinner break, so you could now answer 25 minutes if you have the opportunity. You don't have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u40	No. I've had questions fired at me for seven and a half hours. I assume the Members of Parliament want answers to all these questions!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u41	You want to take a break. I shall now suspend the meeting for dinner break until 7:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u42	We will continue with the General European Reviews. I will give the floor to the Foreign Minister in a moment, but only after I have informed him of the following. Speaking time is classified according to the system of the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews. This means that the time limit you received in the first term, including the second term, was. There have been three spokesmen, Mrs Faber, Mr Schaap and Mr Knapen, who have not made up their time in the first term. So they have time for the second term. Everyone else has finished at zero or two minutes. Mr Postema and Mr Van Dijk have finished in two minutes, so they get three minutes for the second term. Everyone else gets two minutes before the second term, because they have either ended up on zero or way over it. Just so you know. Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u43	This communication comes as a total surprise to me and is contrary to what the Registry has told us spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u44	I know it's contrary to what the Griffin told you, but I thought I'd just try. This is "bluff your way into speaking time." It would be nice if you could keep to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u45	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I conclude from that that I still have speaking time! When I saw last night the images of the burning Notre-Dame, to which Mr Backer referred, I thought: there is also a piece of our Notre-Dame on fire. I think that's what a lot of people in Europe thought. No matter how different you think about European integration and how you interact with France or other neighbouring countries, when such an iconic building, which we all know as tourists or photos, is on fire, you still feel, as a spectator said, that a piece of yourself is on fire. This feeling illustrates that we all feel very connected with Europe in our own way. The same applies to the cabinet. Europe is going through a complicated period of time, which also applies to the world outside Europe, and that means that, as far as the cabinet is concerned, there is a clear task for the European Union and for the Netherlands within that European Union. In the state of the Union that we are discussing today, the cabinet also gives a very clear indication of what direction it should take with regard to the Netherlands and what consequences it must have for the functioning of the Union itself, for its institutions. A few of you felt that the cabinet was not clear about this or would have insufficient ambition. I do not recognise that image at all, and I can assure you that it is not recognised in Europe either. Whether it is the speech made by the Prime Minister in Zurich, or the presentation of the State of the Union as we are discussing it in the Financial Times, or the role of Dutch rulers, of course our Prime Minister with a long track record and a special capacity to build coalitions, Mr Hoekstra, myself and all my colleagues, who are very active in Europe, I never hear from European colleagues that it would not be clear what the Netherlands stands for. This is also apparent from competitions published on the influence of different countries. Especially with the imminent departure of the United Kingdom, it is widely seen in Europe that the Netherlands plays a crucial role in this. That doesn't mean that you say yes to everything, but that we have thoughts and that we vent them clearly on occasions I just mentioned. At the same time, this does not mean that we believe that Europe is a thousand things and that Europe must take everything on its own. It'd get stuck, too. The priorities that we have outlined in the State of the Union, and which are therefore always reflected in the government's commitment, are the priorities of migration, security, a strong and sustainable economy that also offers protection, climate and a European Union that secures values and interests abroad. We are very clear about these five priorities. In addition, we clearly indicate how we believe that the European Union should act as an institution, for example the role that the Commission should play, not politically, but as a enforcer of the rules we have agreed and as the initiator of new legislative initiatives. We are also relying on these priorities in our contribution to the budget. No one can blame us for not knowing where we want to go, or for not being able to focus. When I look at how many countries do this, there is rightly reference to President Macron's proposals, some closer to the Dutch position, others a little further, then there are not so many countries that have such a clear position. So I really see no reason to take away from the position of the Netherlands there. We are clear about the importance of European cooperation. It is clear that this requires priorities, but it is also clear that there is a limit to where Europe needs to act. This commitment plays a major role in this indeed exciting year of European elections. It is extremely important that the electorate should be able to show clearly where the priorities lie in Europe and a new Commission. That is why it is important that we set our priorities. Indeed, there will also be an informal summit in Sibiu. A number of members asked for this. An informal summit is by its nature not decision-making, but it is important that the European leaders look at what the European Union needs at this difficult moment. The formal summits followed where decisions were taken. At the same time, the cabinet held a number of citizen consultations. That agreement was also made in the European Council. These consultations also provide a clear picture, namely that Dutch people are generally generally positive about European cooperation. They can also clearly identify the areas in which they see this importance. I call it commerce. Everyone recognizes that the Netherlands is a trading country and is therefore very dependent on exports, on transit. I call security. People are well aware that crime and terrorism are cross-border. The public also clearly indicates where more effort is expected from Europe. Then it's about migration. People are well aware that tackling the causes is far beyond European borders, for example through border surveillance, but also through the approximation of the way we deal with asylum applications. People are also well aware that this requires international cooperation. People are also clear about what they don't want. Like the cabinet, they want to handle taxpayers' money carefully. There is no need for large additional European expenditure. Social security is seen as a genuine national domain. These consultations indicate that the majority of the Dutch population is well aware of what is happening in Europe, feels involved, but just like the cabinet says: make choices, commit to it, but also indicate where Europe has a much less important role to play. I will respond along the lines of the five priorities of the cabinet, as I have outlined. Then I go to the EU institutions. Then I will deal with the way in which the Netherlands forms alliances within the European Union. There were also a number of specific questions about the Brexit and around the Council of Europe. Inevitably I end with the last part, namely varia. I'll start with the questions about migration. Mr Schaap asked about the free movement of persons. He went on to move from many European countries to Western European countries and asked how we should balance that flow without undermining the principle of openness of borders. That freedom of movement is an essential part of our European Union and one of the things many Dutch people say they enjoy very much. In the case of labour mobility, it is important that we make some agreements on the rules within which it takes place. That's what's gonna happen. You can see that a number of countries are, on balance, exporters of people on their way to work in Western Europe. This is often seen as a great achievement in these countries at the same time. People often like working in the West, including in the Netherlands, because of the good merit, but also to be able to develop. In some countries this leads to depopulation, or the departure of part of the youth. That is not always final, because when the level of prosperity increases, you also see people go back. You can see that very clearly in Poland at the moment. The European Union offers a number of instruments, including the famous cohesion funds, which aim to stimulate economic development in countries where it is less important at the moment. That cannot be limitless, but it is part of Mr Schaap's question. Mrs Faber referred to the Marrakesh migration pact and asked for an opinion on a note from the Commission's Legal Service on whether or not this is legally binding. As Mrs Faber knows, the Dutch Government considers that this is not legally binding. To the extent that doubts remain, it has been removed by the fact that the Netherlands, together with a number of other countries in the United Nations, has once again declared that the Pact is not legally binding. Mr Schaap asked about the government's attitude towards a strengthening of Frontex. The Netherlands has agreed to the mandate to strengthen Frontex, taking into account its own responsibility for its border control. There is a possibility of discussing whether this will reduce the role of countries, often countries on the external border of Europe, when it comes to ensuring border control, but that is not the case. We can support them, but we can't take over. Mrs Strik and later others also addressed the question of distribution. A number of Eastern European countries have indicated that they do not want to be forced to take up a proportionate share of recognised asylum seekers. That is one of the most important points in the current European Union. The scale of the migration problem is enormous. It lives hugely with the population and raises huge questions of solidarity. All European countries are bound by the Refugee Convention. This in itself does not offer much scope for differentiation, but at the same time we note that it is important to take steps forward. This really concerns the whole process of migration. The approach to migration requires action in the countries of origin and also an approach to its causes. On the one hand, it is about economic development and on the other hand it is about developing the rule of law and preventing groups from being oppressed. Both economics and oppression is an important driver of migration. I would like to draw attention to the approach to smuggling routes, the strengthening of border surveillance and the proper assessment of whether people are rightly calling for asylum status or for other reasons which are certainly understandable from their individual position, but which do not give them the right to access to the European Union. That means people have to go back. All these elements call for more European coordination and commitment. Of the people who then get asylum status, the question of distribution is then a logical one. At the moment you see a trek especially to Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, the prosperous Northwest European states. It is therefore not strange that we should say that we expect a reasonable contribution from everyone. This does not exclude any form of customisation, but I cannot imagine a situation in which some European countries which are also bound by the Refugee Convention would say that they remain completely outside of a division agreement and that some other countries will have to do away with it. So we really need to take another step forward here, because it is one of the most important issues for the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u47	Basically, I can agree with the Minister, but the practice is that these countries simply close the borders. Then you can still so strongly rely on treaties or principles, they keep the border closed. I have tried to understand this by referring to the history of Central Europe. My question was whether there is anything to play, through understanding for these countries and some variation in measures that you can take, so that you can keep them together. But in a European context, not the wild growth. What is now threatening is that these countries are simply not on speaking terms, that they are growing wildly and that European cohesion is being lost. Hence my appeal, or the Minister's scan of whether there is any variation in policy to talk about with those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u48	I think I've gone into that. Mr Schaap will agree with me that all these countries are bound by the Refugee Convention. I do not believe that this is how I understood the contribution of almost all Members of Parliament that you would have to bargain with the interpretation of treaties. At the same time, I have indicated that I can imagine that you are adding something to such a distribution mechanism in relation to pure proportionality, but not in a form where only a small number of North-West European countries accept recognised refugees and other countries are completely detached from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u49	I have also indicated that I do not think that you will have a common European asylum system until there is a solution to the Dublin issue, i.e. a fair distribution. I think the problem is very urgent. The question to the Minister is what possibilities he sees to break the deadlock, except perhaps apply customization. We are already talking about financial compensation for people who do take over asylum seekers, but are we also thinking about what should happen if it does not have sufficient effect? Is there any consideration of sanctions and exclusive means, for example with regard to Schengen, or in other ways? What is the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u50	You have to be careful of speculating, of course. In the Dutch commitment to the European multi-annual budget, we indicate that we believe that the right to European funds should be linked to the efforts made by countries in integrating refugees. That's an instrument we can use. President Macron's article, of course, establishes a link between being part of Schengen, which does not apply to all countries, and taking your fair share in the distribution of refugees. That could be a route, too. It can also be a mixing form. It's complicated to try to work that out in detail here, knowing that you'll end up doing it with 27 countries. There are a number of buttons, but I am not saying for nothing that the outcome cannot be that the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden are taking refugees on balance and other countries could buy them off completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u51	The Minister says that different scenarios are conceivable, but what will be the commitment of the Netherlands? Does the Netherlands support Macron or does the Netherlands support other strategies? After all, the Netherlands is also at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u52	Sure. That is why we also point out that we want the whole process to be part of the solution. I have already indicated this in detail: countries of origin, countries of transit, border control and distribution. I see room for turning buttons, but there's no point in going beyond that, because then we're trying to re-negotiate 27 states.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u53	We do not need to develop a new system here, if it is absolutely clear that Europe needs a uniform asylum system that can be managed from Europe. If concessions are to be made, then so be it, I would say, because the need for such a system is great. The Netherlands must be prepared to do so. That's what I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u54	The first point is the commitment that the cabinet has sent you. Migration is on the list of five priorities. That you have to make concessions in negotiations, of course, but that does not mean that you have to lie on your back immediately. Somewhere in the middle, we have to find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u55	Does the Minister think that it should be an objective of the European Union that the southern Member States which act as border regions for migratory flows, such as Greece, Italy and Spain, should not in principle have to bear more burden than any other EU Member State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u56	Even without adding'southern', I would argue that certain countries should not suffer more than others. In the number of asylum applications, the Netherlands is one of the major destination countries. That certainly does not apply to all southern countries. People go through that, but they don't ask for asylum. This also illustrates that for a lot of countries the Netherlands is one of the most important ones there is a fairer distribution. That also underlines the point I made earlier about border surveillance. I realize that the countries at the external border are under heavier pressure. But that also means that, as is customary in the Netherlands, they must have a proper assessment procedure. As we in Appingedam make a very professional and humane assessment of whether or not someone is right to call for refugee status, this is not the case in all EU Member States. That is therefore a reasonable question for other states, whether they are at the external border or in another place: all countries have signed the Refugee Convention. So that is also part of it, just as working together on return procedures for those who are heard during the procedure: unfortunately for you, you do not meet refugee status. We can't take that from those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u57	Appingedam is in demand today. I'm glad. I understand the Minister's rationalization, but those southern countries are falling through their hoofs because of the task they face. They will then respond to it, at the expense of basic human rights. Hence my question: should it not be the explicit objective of all EU Member States, even when it comes to the pressure on those external borders, to help the southern Member States as much as possible? I refer to the Minister's comment with which he opened his speech. He said: we are in favour of strengthening Frontex, but that should not mean that they do not do their own work. Let us now say generously that the problems facing Italy, for example, are our problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u58	No, it's not gonna work like that. Firstly, the Netherlands explicitly supports the southern countries and also takes its fair share of people arriving there. We also note that there is a huge flow of people who have to travel through these countries to the Netherlands and have never been registered there. That's not where the Dublin procedure works. You really cannot say that the Netherlands would sit back and southern countries have the only share. Once again, I realise that this is a major task, but I have not said for nothing that there is a responsibility for border control and for having a proper asylum procedure. But I think that Mr Postema and I agree on this. We can't take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u59	Finally, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u60	I think it's a tricky point. I'm not looking forward to doing this in confrontation mode at all, because I don't think that's gonna help us. But the Minister will agree with me that the scenes that are taking place on the Greek islands are a declaration of the whole Union and therefore also of the Netherlands. At that time, it would not be appropriate to point out to the Greeks that they do not have this in order and that they do not have it in order? It's not a comparison to say "we're all doing it so neatly" at the time those people arrive at us again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u61	There is extensive support for Greece, both European and from the Netherlands. In that we really take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u62	Why is the Dublin agreement not simply being respected? We made a deal like this for a reason, didn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u63	The Netherlands is complying with the Dublin agreement, but Mr Postema outlined that a number of countries are no longer doing so at the moment. I'm sorry about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u64	It's just too easy, isn't it? Then we can say: the other one doesn't stick to it, so let's just do it a little bit? We can just point that out, can't we? I thought we agreed on these rules. Why don't we just send these people back to those countries on the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u65	To point out the importance of sticking to it we do. Once again, the issue of migration is at the top of the Dutch agenda for a reason. To send someone back to a country, you need to know where he's from. I began by saying that we do not know that of many people arriving in the Netherlands, because indeed the Dublin procedure is not being followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u66	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u67	But then there is only the solution of simply closing the external borders. Because apparently these appointments just don't work and you have to do it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u68	Grammatically, the phrase "just close the external borders" is correct. In practice, that means 20 km of traffic at Hazeldonk. Mrs Faber realizes that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u69	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, are you ready yet? About the previous point? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u70	I just wanted to come back to the earlier issue of labour migration. The Minister answered a question from Mr Schaap about this and that was rather quick. I had also asked a question about it, so I would like to put the following to the Minister. The Minister states that the free movement of workers is a great asset. Of course, that's the well-known line. But there is still something about closing the borders and regulating the labour market in Europe and labour migration. Previous proposals have been made, for example by the British Government, when they did not yet want to leave the EU, for example, to set up an emergency braking procedure, where you say that in principle free movement of workers applies, but under circumstances it should be possible to regulate and limit this. What do you think would be against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u71	If you want to do that, it requires a treaty change. That was also the commitment of the British Government at the time. It is very doubtful whether you will achieve that. Eastern European countries are very committed to this freedom of movement and see it as an important achievement. Speculation on a treaty change that should result in this is very speculative. I do not think that many Eastern European countries will agree. You're gonna need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u72	I note that the Minister does not disagree with the SP Group in principle, but that it is necessary to amend the Treaty and that this is going to be difficult. I will admit the latter immediately. Moreover, I think it would be one of the reasons for wanting a new treaty. But then there's another question. Can't we also do something as the Netherlands? For example, the FNV has pointed out that there are a number of schemes which make it easy for employers to obtain, at the minimum wage in force here, migrant workers but to pay less social contributions for them. This, of course, also contributes to undesirable competition in the labour market. I would like to mention, for example, the A1 declarations and the extraterritorial cost regulation. Various schemes are mentioned by the FNV, including the low income benefit scheme, which is said to be an undesirable form of labour migration, because it sets workers against each other. Is the cabinet prepared to think about that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u73	That has just happened, because that is what the Detachment Directive is about. He arranges equal pay for equal work. Mr Postema replied. But he doesn't arrange for contributions to be equalized. Such an equivalence would bring with it a lot of other questions. The level of social security varies enormously from one country to another. So that means that at the moment those premiums are very different, and that is why it has not been possible to even that part in the Detaching Directive. That is such a difficult task that it is not real to imagine that it is now possible to do so. I am going back to migration, as Mrs Strik had the question of whether the European Union should monitor the consequences of human rights in making agreements with third countries. Oh, yeah. The Netherlands and the European Union must have international law in mind in all agreements they make, including agreements we make with third countries, always as far as we can. But that must be the starting point. Mrs. Strik asked about the Sophia mission. Mr Knapen also commented on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u74	I am very pleased that Minister Blok states that this must be done naturally, but what strikes me when deals or agreements are concluded with third countries is that, in fact, very little has been mapped out in advance. The Commission's line is normally: making impact assessments before a proposal is made. You do not see that, although it may result in refugees getting stuck somewhere else, so it is important that they have access to protection and basic facilities there. You say it's being watched. Point one: there is no monitoring system after such a deal has been concluded, but as far as I know, there is not really a prior assessment of what that would mean. But maybe the minister knows more than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u75	This is a rather abstract approach: "there will be pre-..." Then perhaps you are referring to the appointment with Turkey at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u76	Mrs. Strik, I just wanted to be brief. You can ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u77	The EU-Turkey deal is a very clear one, but at the moment, many third countries, including Africa, have reached agreements on readmission and readmission and on other ways of stopping migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u78	Yes. Here too, we are paying particular attention to human rights. I myself visited Niger, Nigeria and Tunisia at the end of last year. At that time, I specifically addressed that question. Fortunately, it is possible to reduce the total volume of human trafficking and the degrading conditions associated with it. We are also doing our utmost to support the countries and the organisations involved, such as the IOM, to do this well. In northern Niger, I spoke extensively with people who had returned from Libya and Algeria under the guidance of the IOM. Unfortunately, they also have poignant stories about what they've been through along the way. This is, first and foremost, an additional justification for tackling trafficking in human beings. But I didn't say it for nothing: it is as far as it's in our power. Unfortunately, we can't be everywhere on that smuggling route and check it out. We can, however, support the authorities and support international organisations in reducing the terrible suffering associated with the smuggling and trafficking of human beings. The mandate of the Sophia mission has been extended. The two ships that carry them will no longer sail at the time of renewal. The mission will now take place with planes. They can also pass on to the Coast Guard where there are drones. The Netherlands would actually have liked the ships to sail through. In a union where sufficient support had to be found for this, this was the compromise on which we could finally agree. We discussed the subject of forced recordings in the event of interruption. I shall then turn from the subject of migration to the subject of economics. Mr Van Apeldoorn was the first to ask about the development of the internal market and the relationship between the internal market and the other priorities of the European Union. Then Mrs Strik, Mr Knapen and Mr Postema did the same. The internal market is a very important part of the European Union. It was a cornerstone of the foundation. For a trading country like the Netherlands, the internal market is extremely important. But it is not that this is the only agenda, or that there is an unlimited internal market. There is a set of regulatory issues ranging from employment protection for the Detachment Directive to public services, or data protection. In addition, the European Union has a number of other priorities: the rule of law, which I will go into in detail, the protection of the environment or the protection of social conditions. It would be a caricature to suggest that the European Union is only a free market. Is there a need for a new type of market authority? For example, I understood Mr Postema's question, which would like to weigh up the scope for cooperation and the scope for competition in a number of sectors. If this were to be considered desirable, it would require an amendment to the Convention. First of all, the question is how desirable and feasible that is. If I try to think out loud about that, you are starting a huge discussion, because each country will want to limit its own role to the role that the Commissioner for Competition now has. The cabinet commitment relates to procurement in the care sector. The Netherlands actually wants more national space. It is really waiting for another country to say: then we want more space to protect our agricultural market, because in that we have so much trouble with those Dutch who export so much. The cabinet will engage in that discussion, specifically with regard to the concern, but I expect this to be a complicated discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u79	The Minister expects it to be a complicated discussion. I understand. This is usually the case in the European Union. But I think it's a rather thin answer. We have a big problem here in the Netherlands with the care in the social domain. I believe that this is widely shared in this Chamber when it comes to the obstructive effect of European procurement rules. Could the Minister perhaps explain a little more about the strategy that will then be followed, how the government is trying to do this and whether there is perhaps a plan B?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u80	The government is specifically committed to the care sector, in order to create more room for cooperation. I'm having a hard time trying in the First Chamber to do a negotiation with 27 countries. I can honestly say that my experience and assessment of Europe is that other countries will put other sectors on the table because they have an interest in it. Some countries have traditionally had a lot of private parties in care. They will probably press the other way and say: on the contrary, we want to be active in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is one of the largest agricultural exporting countries. I am sure there are a number of countries that would not mind at all putting some restrictions on this. It seems fair to me to put that on the table, but that does not affect the commitment of the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u81	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, did you want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u82	Yeah, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u83	Do you want to stick to this one short reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u84	Yes, I'll be very brief. I note that the Minister says: we are committed to this, but it is going to be very difficult. Can I therefore conclude that the Minister agrees with us that the development of the internal market may sometimes create obstacles to national policies in a way that is not desirable? And that might be a more fundamental problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u85	That is why we have incorporated this into the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u86	I think this is a very important subject. Several speakers have raised the tension between public interests and the market. I think there are two things that are really important. I believe that we have been pointing to Europe for too long when it comes to market forces and privatisation policies. In doing so, we have often gone much further than other European countries to actually privatise companies. I believe that there is a large grey area in Europe, in which the Netherlands has gone very far. I think we have an area to regain in the public interest. I am very surprised, for example, that we in the Netherlands have allowed childcare to be a totally privatised market. It is not normally privatised, but if we are not careful there is only private equity and that market is also served by foreign parties. Surely that could never have been the intention of how we wanted to do that in the Netherlands? My appeal to the Minister is as follows: let us be clear about what we stand for. It may well be that we do not make it once, but I think it is not enough to say that it is complicated with 27 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u87	I agree with Mr Postema that there are areas where you want to restrict competition control or market forces. Now I happen to be the father of a son who grew up very happy in private childcare. So that's not necessarily the example I'm thinking of when I wash out. But once again, the concern is clearly expressed in the coalition agreement as an area in which we do have that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u88	Mr. Postema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u89	This is always inspiring. I'm very glad you have a happy son in child care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u90	Me too, though it's been a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u91	However, I ask the Minister to look beyond the n=1 of the son in private childcare. The moment things fall over, we're all incredibly stuck with our hands in the hair. My point is that the public interest in this is great. This is perfectly normal in primary and secondary education, but when it comes to children of half a year old, we think it is perfectly normal that it should be handed over to the market. I give your son his good time. I'm genuinely happy about that. But I think we also have to look at the broader interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u92	This is actually a different discussion, but I will not be persuaded that private childcare would not be good. I do not think this is a discussion that belongs to the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u93	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u94	Mrs Strik spoke about the care of the public, too, about the blocking of profits and the avoidance of taxes. The Netherlands is fully committed to limiting this. The Netherlands played a very important role during our presidency in the adoption of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, ATAD 1. The suggestion from the European Parliament that the Netherlands would be a tax paradise also applies to the OECD's criteria, such as non-transparency in taxation, the application of a particularly low rate and so on. Those are really criteria that do not apply to the Netherlands. Nor does the OECD, so the accusation of the European Parliament is really wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u95	Mr. Postema, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u96	The point came from my group. Of course, it has been a huge wake-up call, just the notion of tax havens and all the books and articles written about it. As a citizen of this country, I feel quite shirty, being part of such a signature. Then it may be that the OECD may not necessarily place the predicate "tax paradise" with all its criteria on us, but the OECD, with BEPS, has, of course, in full focus on the Netherlands. This is about avoidance, quite true, but I would like to say to the Minister that, if I just look back at the last 25 years, I have an extremely uncomfortable feeling about it. I'm glad Paul Tang and his people stuck to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u97	It is important that we leave this judgment to objective international organisations. The OECD has a number of criteria for this, looking at the level of tax rates, their transparency and so on. On the basis of these criteria, the Netherlands is not what the European Parliament is suggesting as a tax haven. Why would we want to take that down? This also disqualifies the OECD, which we have no interest in. Ms Strik and Mr Backer asked to address the priorities of the MFF. These priorities are linked to the five priorities I mentioned as Dutch commitment. The fact that, against the backdrop of a smaller European Union as a whole, the United Kingdom is a strong net payer at the same time means adjusting the budget to the disappearance of a large country. As a result, we all have less to spend. Within the available money bet on the priorities, together with a number of important conditionality for the Netherlands. One of them has already been mentioned: the commitment to migration. Another important issue for the Netherlands is the linking of the right to European money, specifically cohesion funds, to participating in European standards on the rule of law. A third important conditionality for the Netherlands is the linking of the right to these Structural Funds to participate in structural reforms, as indicated in the European Semester. So there is also a clear Dutch commitment to this multiannual budget. We also form coalitions with other like-minded countries. Here too, the past has shown that negotiations are complicated, but the Netherlands is not alone in a large part of this effort. Realising that there is a need to modernise and that conditions, conditionality and European money are really shared by many more other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u98	At the risk of the Minister still being entitled to the sophisticated negotiating strategy which he may only want to share with this Chamber in part, he understandably does not want to do the negotiations with the 27 here. He has now explained the clear priorities, which are all conditionality for other countries for European funds. The Netherlands isn't gonna do it anymore. An alternative could be to increase own resources. But the strategy that all other countries will have to meet conditionality before they are allowed to eat out of the European jungle is all very clear, logical and defendable... does not say anything about what the Netherlands invests in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u99	It is not the case that the Netherlands could impose a conditionality on other countries which does not apply to the Netherlands itself. The rules governing the use of European funds apply to all countries, including the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u100	This is a bit lame, because we have the budget in order and so far comply with the human rights agreements, so conditionality does not, at first sight, immediately reveal itself in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u101	I do not know what it is like to say as a condition for receiving European money: put your rule of law in order. It seems to me that we should all be able to find each other on that. We have just had an extensive discussion on how to take a step further in Europe with regard to migration. It's not weird, is it, when a large group of people find it here, to translate it into our financial priorities? That's not a trick, that's consistent. If you have priorities, you translate them financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u102	Mr. Backer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u103	The last thing I'm saying about this is that it's all at your service, but it can't cost the Netherlands any money. In fact, that's what you're saying. My point is that if you want to get something out of Europe for the Netherlands, it is not the net net ratio of what we put in the European budget, but it is also the multiplier and the revenues that Dutch citizens have of it. But when it comes to one-on-one money, I can understand you in this way. I hope I am wrong. No one is against the latter, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u104	Mr Backer's description is correct, but those are things that stand side by side. On the one hand, you must agree on the size of the European budget, as well as at national level. The Netherlands thinks it makes sense, and I think it makes sense that if a large country leaves, the budget will shrink proportionally. The Commission's proposal is not so, and it is also expected that the Netherlands will eventually contribute much more, which amounts to about two billion. That's taxpayers' money. So that 2 billion can't be spent here. That amount must therefore be included in our budget. Then we meet here to talk about where the two billion should come from. You're gonna have to find that somewhere else on your budget. Against the backdrop of the fact that there is very good room for manoeuvre, too, the Netherlands has submitted very concrete proposals to modernise at the same time, to move on to these new priorities, but also to save on the two very large traditional posts of cohesion and agriculture. That makes sense, doesn't it? Once again, we are not alone in this. There are really a lot of countries that share that commitment with us. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Strik asked me to deal specifically with this agricultural policy. If I understood correctly, she is concerned that the Netherlands is sufficiently committed to a battle for a larger climate component and the importance of good environmental management. In any case, the Netherlands believes that climate should be a cutting-edge issue in the whole new budget. The contributions to the climate problem should be clearly visible per budget line. That certainly applies to the agricultural part. In addition, we believe that the modernisation of agricultural expenditure also involves a reduction in the use of income support and more support for the farming sector in the provision of public services. This could include agri-environmental payments, for example. So that is where we are heading for modernisation. Mr Backer and Mr Van Dijk asked for an explanation of what Mr Hoekstra said about the possible euro area budget. The Netherlands has always made it clear that we believe that it should be found within the MFF, i.e. within the European budget area, and that it is primarily up to the individual countries themselves to ensure that their national finances are cyclically stable. We have asked a lot of the population in the Netherlands. We have implemented difficult reforms around the AOW age, around care and around the housing market to ensure that our finances are in order. There was a lot of criticism at that time, and it was often said that the timing is not right or that the measures are not going to work, but we have shown that the Netherlands has come out healthier. Then it is not weird that we say to other countries: you will have to take those painful measures, because you too are dealing with an ageing population and your economy is also changing its structure. We cannot replace that with some kind of European cyclical fund. You cannot mix economic and structural reforms. So the Netherlands is indeed imposing very strict conditions on such a new instrument. And Mr Hoekstra, of course, speaks on behalf of the cabinet. Mr Kuiper spoke about the internal market, also referring to the WRR report, about the space that should be available for different speeds of head groups. That space is often, but not always, and it is also used in practice. For example, in the Benelux, we have digitised our own freight letter system to make the lives of freighters easier, but this has not yet been achieved throughout the European Union. The recognition of diplomas for engineers has again been achieved with another leading group. In general, it is preferable to do so with the whole of Europe. Again, the Netherlands is a trading country, so in general we have a lot of advantage if the rules are the same everywhere. A number of concrete examples indicate that, where necessary, we certainly do not shy away from that customization. Mr Postema asked that the task of the European Labour Authority be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u105	Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u106	My impression was that there was more ambition behind the wordings in the State of the Union than you now represent. That there are always opportunities to make agreements, I know that. Of course, the WWR study has a very clear context and an intention, namely to make a fresh start on the evaluation of the functioning of the tender market, and in particular to mention the services market. You do that yourself in the State of the Union. Can you indicate what you mean in the State of the Union by re-establishing regional and sector-specific agreements? What's behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u107	We can see that there has been much less progress on the internal market in the services market than on the goods market. Mr Knapen also mentioned this. The Netherlands is also a leading country in the export of services. It is therefore in the Dutch interest to make this internal market as much as possible. We also have an interest in an internal market of now 28 and later 27. Where that can't be done, it can be helpful to fall back on a leading group. I just gave you two examples of where we did that. That's what we're describing in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u108	Finally, Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u109	My question focused on the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u110	The level of ambition. The first choice is always the EU of today 28 and later 27, because Dutch entrepreneurs, including those who find their jobs, have the most interest in doing so. If that doesn't work, a smaller breakaway is a relapse option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u111	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u112	The European Labour Authority. It essentially brings together national inspection services, which is of great added value. There is also some regular discussion about the treatment of foreign workers in the Netherlands, so it is good that we have made these agreements. Tax and social security contributions are not now covered by these agreements for the reason I have just indicated: the level of provision is very different from one country to another. If we were to include this, I fear that we would not have been able to take that first important step. Then I move from the economic issues to the climate. This is a very important area for the cabinet to reach ambitious agreements at European level. It is also typically a subject with enormous cross-border effects, but also an issue that has an impact on the competitiveness of companies. So these are two good reasons for agreeing on this European ambitious. Mr Postema asked specifically how climate policy is implemented in agriculture, specifically in circular agriculture. Mr Schouten will send a letter to the Chamber on her interpretation of circular agriculture for the summer. Then I'll move on to the security issues. Mrs Faber asked to discuss the ideas of a European army, European defence. The cabinet is convinced that we will continue to need NATO for our security. In an increasingly restless world, we need the protection of the widest possible alliance, including the atomic umbrella, no matter how annoying we all are. The enormous innovative power and economic strength of such a great alliance, and within it the United States, are also of great importance for our security. To indicate the relationship: when the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, the European countries which are also members of NATO will account for only 20% of defence expenditure, because 80% is the United States and the United Kingdom. This illustrates the fact that for your safety and for your strength as Europe, there is insufficient mass in the scale. However, better European cooperation in the field of defence is of great importance. Europe must take responsibility in such a complex world. This is what other countries expect from us, because we are economically large and strong and also because in the immediate vicinity of Europe there is insecurity that can also affect security in Europe and in the Netherlands. That is why, within the framework of NATO cooperation, the Netherlands is strongly involved in European cooperation initiatives, such as PESCO and better transport of military equipment throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u113	I am glad that this government still supports NATO, but the question is, of course, what is the European army still... Cooperation within Europe is, of course, fine. No, we're not against cooperation. I'm sorry. I can't respond to what someone's calling from the benches. Well, I guess I'll just say it in the Minister's direction. Of course, we are not against cooperation. We are only opposed to a totalitarian European superstate. We're against that. I just wanted to say that for the sake of clarity, for the listeners here. Of course, we are not opposed to cooperation in the defence field within Europe, but my question remains, of course, what this possible European army will add to NATO. So what's that gonna do that that NATO doesn't do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u114	I have just indicated that the Netherlands is not for a separate European army, but for good cooperation. Mr Van Apeldoorn also specifically asked about the European intervention initiative. Does this mean that the European Union can send out an intervention force over the heads of the Member States? The answer is no. It does mean more intensive cooperation, but the initiative will not use national troops to achieve these goals. The power to evict an army must remain a national competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u115	The Minister states that this is not a European intervention force. I have of course heard this before in the answer and also in the Lower House. But what exactly is the intention of the European Intervention Initiative? It's called intervention initiative. It is a question of cooperation, but cooperation is already in many other forms, as the Minister has just said. What does this add, or what should this add? What form should this cooperation take, even in relation to the name of the initiative? The initiative is called an "intervention initiative." In the letter of intent it is about collective capacities to achieve a common protection of Europe's interests. Surely that goes beyond cooperation between existing Ministries of Defence in the field of equipment or whatever?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u116	The current defence cooperation in the Sahel could be an example. The insecurity in the Sahel affects, of course, the people themselves, in Mali, Niger, Chad, Burkina Faso, but it also affects us, because these countries are a breeding ground and can become even more for terrorism that is also Europe's goal, because these countries are partly countries of origin, but also partly transit countries of unregulated migration and trafficking in human beings, with all the excesses that unfortunately go with it. At present, the Netherlands and other countries of the European Union are also active there, also by supporting security forces there in guarding their borders and tackling banditism. This is an example where the European Union is active at the edges of Europe. It is really in the interests of those countries themselves, but also of Europe. For that, you would actually want a standard instrument, without transferring the national authority to send troops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u117	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u118	Can this mean that the joint participation of the countries participating in this intervention initiative will decide whether military intervention is taking place in the Sahel countries, or whether what is called an 'expeditionary effort'? Is that what I'm supposed to imagine? Is it, therefore, a matter of creating the possibility of jointly deciding on an intervention and implementing it jointly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u119	No, you didn't hear me use the word "intervention." You have clearly heard me say'sending out troops'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u120	That's what the initiative is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u121	I understand that the name evokes an expectation, but I am not saying that that is a national competence for nothing. I believe, however, that the example in the Sahel, which is simply topical, shows that there is a logical role for European countries and that that role can also have a military component, and in this case, because you have to support those countries in their border control and combating terrorism. Mr Postema asked whether the conservative ambition of the cabinet to cooperate in defence was, in my view, proportionate to the capacity development envisaged by Europe and the financial resources earmarked for it in the MFF. An important area where there is room for cooperation is the development of military equipment, which is now very fragmented. I thought Mr Backer pointed that out too. Research and development has traditionally been a subject where the European Union has and can have great added value, because you do not want to invent the wheel in every country. This is therefore also obvious in the field of defence. It's not being done enough yet. The European Defence Fund provides a very good basis for this, which can really benefit the Netherlands. Once again, we could allow the European Union to take on its role much more there, without attacking NATO. Then I move from security to the European Union's external policy. Mr Schaap asked me to address the geopolitical situation, the role of the Netherlands and the European Union. A lot of others went into that as well. All this against the backdrop of the fact that the world has become more complex and unsafe because of the new role Russia has taken, the insecurity at the edges of Europe, the war in Syria and the instability in North Africa. In addition, there is China's marked rise as a new world power. This means that the Netherlands will continue to seek European cooperation here too. The Netherlands is a country with a good reputation, a strong economy and much to be proud of, but to be internationally effective it must of course use the strength and power of the number and size of the European market. So, in the negotiations with these very different countries, we are at the same time seeking and building on what binds us. So we have intensive trade relations with China and, by the way, with the Russian Federation. It is very important to develop it further. Where necessary, it also provides room for us to use our power. Mr Knapen asked for that too. The Prime Minister addressed this in his speech in Zurich. Many countries want access to a market with 500 million people and would like to draw on the knowledge and expertise of our people and our companies. We are also keen to work together in this area, but if there is reason to do so, because there are serious violations of international law, such as the invasion of Crimea, or gross violations of human rights, the cabinet is committed to a European human rights instrumental system, then we must not shy away from using the international influence that we have as a very large market to promote what we want. We want a rules-based multilateral world order where human rights are respected and where companies can trade on an equal footing with each other. By united European action, we can really achieve more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u122	Do we indeed use this power against China when it comes to the attitude towards the Uighurs and the Tibetans? That is a very clear example where that could be relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u123	I can't figure out who "we" is from the question. I would like to cut that up in the Netherlands and the European Union. The Netherlands explicitly raises the issue of the position of the Uighurs. Both the Prime Minister and I did so in the discussions we had with our colleagues, the Prime Minister with the Chinese Prime Minister and I with the Chinese Foreign Minister. Three weeks ago, in the Human Rights Council, together with a number of similar countries, we made a clear statement on the position of the Uighurs in China. In the European Union, too, it is an issue that I, together with a number of other countries, are constantly highlighting. The European Union has recently brought out a good update of the strategy towards China. I do not deny that there is some discussion about this, that some countries are less inclined, for example, to question human rights issues in relation to China than other countries, but the Dutch commitment is clear. We always have this commitment within the European Union. Then Mr Knapen, and in other words Mr Backer, asked whether the cabinet was aware of the signs of time, the changing relationship or the paradigm change. Moreover, I have just read in my introduction that in the State of the Union which you have received from the cabinet, too, it is quite clear how the outside world is changing and that it requires a very effective Europe. For the effectiveness of Dutch foreign policy, we also need European cooperation, no matter how difficult it is. So, yeah, we're seeing that paradigm change. We're doing everything we can. I have just mentioned our commitment to a human rights sanctions instrumentarium. There is also the Dutch commitment to a cyber-sanction instrumentarium. Recently there was the subject of the introduction of Islamic criminal law in Brunei with consequences for the position of homosexuals. I have made this very clear in the European Union. A European declaration was then issued on this subject. The answer to the question of whether we see the changing world order is therefore a full yes. This is also reflected in the Dutch commitment in the European Union. Mr Knapen also asked about dependence on natural gas from Russia, the Nord Stream 2 debate. According to the forecasts, the EU, as well as the Netherlands, will be a gas importer in the coming years. Dutch has recently become so, because of the rapid phasing-out of the mining in Groningen. For the EU as a whole, around 40% of gas is imported from Russia and over 38% from Norway. So yes, Russia is an important supplier. That, of course, creates a mutual dependence. This makes gas an important source of income. Norway is also unable to absorb that whole share. There are, of course, LNG terminals, also in the Netherlands. At present, LNG is relatively expensive. There is no blockade to import it, but customers will not naturally be inclined to pay more for it. In addition, Mr Knapen knows that there is a much broader commitment of the Cabinet to focus more on renewable energy and thereby to spread energy sources and thereby to spread risks, but for the foreseeable future, the Netherlands will be a major net importer of gas. Mr Knapen asked whether, with regard to 5G and concerns about possible espionage by Chinese companies, and specifically Huawei, we could and should draw a common European line. Here too, the cabinet is for as much coordinated European line as possible, against the background I have just indicated. The Netherlands is a country to be proud of for many reasons. It also has a very strong economy. But on these issues, it is important to hang out with other countries and also to share information on the vulnerabilities we see in 5G systems, whether they are Chinese or from another origin. So yes, here we also cooperate with other countries as much as possible. By the summer the cabinet will come up with a specific letter on how to deal with the 5G tender. Mr Knapen and Mr Backer asked what was meant by the wording "active use of trade instruments." Against the background of the realization that the European Union is the largest single market and is therefore very attractive, this can be used offensively by concluding good trade agreements. The ability to conclude good trade agreements is huge in the Dutch interest. That is what I am saying to Mrs Faber. As a trading country, the Netherlands alone would never be able to conclude the kind of trade agreements that we can do with a united European Union. So that's an offensive bet. In addition, we can use that trading power defensively. I am thinking of the type of sanctions I just mentioned, about cyber, about human rights, about violations of international law. Access to the European market can be denied, especially when it comes to specific powers in countries. This is not just about access to the European market, but also about physical access to Europe. So there can be no more shopping in London, Paris or Amsterdam. We must not shy away from putting that power into practice where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u124	I just wanted to say a few words about these trade agreements. We must not conclude trade agreements on our own with countries outside the European Union, so we are not dealing with them at all. We then depend on the whims of the big countries, such as Germany and France. What's left may be for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u125	I completely miss why Mrs Faber is so gloomy. The Netherlands is, even within Europe, one of the richest and most innovative economies. We really did not become that because we have been so mistreated within the European Union. That is what we have become because we have wisely taken advantage of the opportunities that the European Union brings us. Does Mrs Faber really think that, as a fantastic country with 17 million inhabitants, we can make the same deal as the European Union with 500 million inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u126	The Minister can ridicule it a little bit, but that's just bullshit, of course. If we put the average growth of the Netherlands in the perspective of the euro area average, we see that we are lagging behind. If we were to discuss our trade agreements ourselves, we would bring in much more, because before the European Union was there, we were already trading. Or was there no life in the trading company for us then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u127	I could ask my parents what the level of prosperity for the European Union was like. They never saw a French bottle of wine or a French cheese on the table. No way. Olive oil didn't come into the house either. The Netherlands was much poorer at that time. Much, much poorer. Go talk to the flower growers in the Westland, with all those people who make cucumbers, tomatoes or high-tech products. Ask how they feel about the importance of the European Union. They all say, "We can't live without it." Look at the panic that is now breaking out in the United Kingdom, at the companies that are leaving. We're not uncritical. We are clear about the priorities we have, but it is an illusion that an open trading country like the Netherlands would be better off without the European Union. Especially after what we see happening in the United Kingdom, that is a truly unbelievable position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u128	Mrs Faber, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u129	I would like to comment on the cucumbers, because the Minister often talks about these cucumbers. Did he really think, if we were not part of the European Union, for example, that the countries would not want any more cucumbers from us? Those cucumbers are good in quality, so I don't see any reason to sell them anymore. They're gonna want it. It is the product that is at stake. If that is good, good quality and good price, then you really want to buy it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u130	Then the cucumber growers in those countries will say: put a rate on it, because the Netherlands is not within the European Union. I see that Mrs Faber agrees with me. Ms Strik asked how progress was being made on the Eastern Partnership. Indeed, for peace and stability in those countries themselves, and thus within Europe too, cooperation within the Eastern Partnership is of enormous importance. They therefore relate to financial support, but also to promoting progress in the areas of the rule of law, democracy and the fight against corruption. That Eastern Partnership has been around for ten years. The palette is actually mixed and diverse. There are countries that have made significant progress on the important issues of the rule of law and democracy. Unfortunately, when it comes to combating corruption, there is still a lot of work to be done. Trade relations with a number of countries have been greatly intensified. There is therefore still an important task to be tackled. There is also a real mutual interest to continue to move in the right direction, but that work is far from finished. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the importance of unanimity on foreign policy. In many areas, the Dutch Government believes that this should remain unanimous. The most striking example of an area in which you would always like to maintain national competence is the deployment of troops. However, we also see room for foreign policy areas where majority decision-making can be applied. Mr. Postema also listed them. These are human rights sanctions, for example. We are now sometimes faced with very poignant situations. The European Union, a union which is supposed to stand up for human rights worldwide, could very well use its economic power to place individuals responsible for human rights violations on a list of sanctions, but ultimately, one out of 28 now would be able to stop 27 countries from doing so. That is a situation which the cabinet says: it would also be in Dutch interest if you could decide on it by qualified majority. A similar reasoning applies, for example, to civilian missions. Then you're really not talking about military action. It also advocates positions in international organisations, where the weight of a united European Union is, of course, far more valuable than that of 28 individual countries. These are three specific areas where we see that space and really see a Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u131	What strikes me now in the answer given by the Minister, and also earlier in the written round and in the appreciation of the committee proposals put forward by the cabinet, is that there is very much substance. It is said, for example, that it is a question of human rights, and that is what the Netherlands is for; that is in our interest. Yes, the SP Group is also in favour of strict respect for human rights, but that is without prejudice to the fundamental question of whether you are willing and willing to give up your national veto in this area. You can now give an example of sanctions on human rights, but it is also conceivable that a majority of the EU Member States will at some point introduce sanctions that may not be human rights matters; I can give any conceivable example, but we say: that is not in Dutch interest? And then you lost that veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u132	No, because the cabinet is talking about three specific areas: human rights sanctions, the position in multilateral organisations and civilian missions. That's all I'm gonna mention. You have to have unanimity to give up unanimity. Without the agreement of the Netherlands, this will not happen. Moreover, there is no guarantee that we will reach that stage on these three points, because other countries could block it. However, Mr Van Apeldoorn's reasoning that if you agreed to these three subjects, it would apply to other subjects does not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u133	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u134	Yes, finally, on this point. I understand that I have little time, but we also have this question of principle on these three points. Can I then ask the Minister to say to this effect that the cabinet remains on these points, and that at some point there is nothing else coming out of the negotiations that we say: 'Yes, but it is also a different kind of sanctions and also a majority decision-making process in other related areas. We had to add some water to the wine here. Unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve our commitment. We have also had to give our veto in other areas"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u135	That is true, because for these three areas only we have indicated that we see that space there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u136	Surely the Minister will agree with me that in other areas too there is at least talk about the desirability of majority decision-making, for example in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u137	Sure, but that's not what the Netherlands is for. That is why it is important to be so precise about what you are and what you are not for. Taxation, of course, affects sovereignty very much. The tax burden, or rather the burden on people and businesses in a country, can never be removed from the way government and social services are regulated in a country. If you only look at Dutch taxes, you would disregard social contributions and other taxes that do come from the pockets of citizens or companies. Nor can we discuss the tax burden without discussing the level of provision that a particular country wants to have. I would not wish the Netherlands to go to the average European level of provision. I wouldn't want that myself. Moreover, the SCP studies which I mentioned earlier also show that the Dutch public in large majority do not need such a European social security. Both from the point of view of sovereignty and from the point of view that you have to overlook the total palette of burdens and facilities, the Dutch cabinet is therefore very opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u138	Mr. Postema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u139	As far as taxation is concerned, I am delighted, Minister Blok, that there is something else like the OECD, which at least you have given the mandate to say sensible things about the harmonisation of tax systems and, specifically, the basic erosion, in which we play such a role. My question was triggered by colleague Van Apeldoorn. In particular, I wanted to be confirmed by the Minister that, with unanimity, the Dutch side is also taking part in discussions on the desirability of majority decision-making in more areas than the three you mention. I am so sure of that because I have read it in those words in the State of the Union, with the reservations you have made. So I am not saying that you should do everything on a majority basis. I only ask the cabinet to consider the option of majority decision-making and take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u140	That's gonna take a lot of precision. If we take part in a discussion, this can also be done with 'we do not want to do so', such as in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u141	Sure. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u142	You said "finally," Mr. Postema. Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u143	It simply means that I myself would be very sorry, and also extremely undemocratic, if you, with the SP, were to suggest that the door be thrown into the lock when it comes to any discussion about the veto. A veto is a very blunt instrument. We have to be careful; I am happy to go with the Minister. You've appointed the aft prisoner yourself. I would be sorry if the cabinet policy were to be left to these three issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u144	But we do benefit from clarity. I have referred to three specific issues. It is quite a step towards giving up national competence. So I'm not just gonna open the door to other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u145	Let me ask you a very enlightening question. The Minister says that he is not in favour of majority decision-making in the area of taxation, because that affects sovereignty and also the level of provision. But isn't it true that when it comes to majority decision-making, it is only about cross-border aspects of tax policy, for example, corporate tax when it comes to companies operating in more countries? Just to avoid tax avoidance, you need appointments. Surely you can't link them one-on-one to sovereignty and the level of provision of citizens? Surely that is a very limited part of taxation, for which you must promote cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u146	I am in favour of combating avoidance, but that does not mean that you should be able to decide on national taxes directly by a majority, even if that is the case with cross-border companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u147	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u148	Yeah, finally. If the government really believes that we need to tackle this tax avoidance and we see in practice that some countries are always blocking agreements that are waterproof so that companies can no longer shop, it is logical that you should try to get out of it by making majority decisions. This is not going to throw your entire fiscal policy across the fence to Europe. That's not the issue at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u149	Then it makes sense that you're trying to get out of there. Period. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked to comment on the passage in the State of the Union on geopolitical interests in, as he described, Europe's backyard. He pointed, among other things, to the instability in Libya. I have just outlined in my description of the world's unrest around Europe how there is instability in various ways in North Africa, the Middle East, Russia and Ukraine that is also affecting Europe. Then it is logical that we should use a number of instruments, ranging from the Eastern Partnership to the willingness to support border guards and counter-terrorism in the Sahel. It is in the interests of stability and security in Europe and the Netherlands that we stay in our backyard and I will stick to those words with a whole palette of instruments. Those neighbors are still our neighbors. Mrs Strik asked us to respond to our position on the Western Balkans, specifically the relationship between Serbia and Kosovo. She also asked about my commitment in this area. I have been in the Balkans a number of times over the past year, once in the Benelux context in Bosnia. We travel every year in Benelux to show that three countries in themselves attach great importance to international cooperation. We are always sending the message that we think it is extremely important that Balkan countries develop, that reforms on the same themes as I described in the Eastern Partnership, the rule of law, democracy and the fight against corruption are of enormous importance, and that we offer support in this respect but also want to see real progress. Mrs Teunissen specifically asked about the possibility of new entrants. North Macedonia and Albania are currently interested in the candidate status of the European Union. The Netherlands, together with a number of other countries, has insisted that we really want to see sufficient progress in the areas I mentioned, namely the rule of law, corruption and the fight against crime. Mr Van Dijk asked how the European Union was going to respond to President Trump's announced plan for the Middle East peace process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u150	Mrs. Strike first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u151	Last year we discussed the western Balkan countries in detail. At that time, with many spokesmen, we felt it was very important for the government to see that it is doing more than simply rolling out the usual programmes and then waiting for them to meet the accession criteria. I have also outlined that the area is vulnerable to other foreign influences. We really need them to move towards us. What else is the Minister and the Government doing in this respect to ensure that it goes the right way? So don't wait until they meet it, but try somewhere in between to develop a little more activity. I have not heard many other answers to this so far during the year. Maybe the Minister can explain that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u152	It is the countries themselves that have to implement reforms. I can't do that for them. We can support them in this. That's exactly what we're doing. If we can learn one lesson from the enlargement of the European Union in the past, it is that we must first let countries take the steps that need to be taken and then proceed to an accession procedure. We really should not do that until countries are ready. We need to be clear about that. It is an illusion to think that countries would have been helped by not doing so. Every time I'm in those countries, I talk to NGOs and the opposition. They say to me, "You help us by being so strict." Mr Van Dijk asked about Trump's plan on the Middle East peace process. We don't know that yet, so I can't judge that yet. The Netherlands and the European Union are truly convinced that a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must be found in a two-state solution. We will assess every plan against that background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u153	I think that's a very nice answer. I referred to the open letter from the 25 European dignitaries, who said in advance: Trump's plan is on the side. I understand the Minister is waiting for the plan to be known and then assessing it on his merits. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u154	We are certainly going to read it carefully, but in the light of the importance of this two-state solution. Mr Ten Hoeve asked whether there was sufficient pressure on the Ukrainian Parliament to achieve decentralisation and federalisation. I do not know whether it is democratically correct for a government to put pressure on a parliament. I indicated, however, that the development of the rule of law, democracy and the fight against corruption is also on the agenda of the Eastern Partnership, and that there is still a lot to be gained. I shall now turn to the institutional design of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u155	It is very useful to talk to Ukraine about these issues, but that does not go far enough from the element I mentioned. In order to implement the Minsk agreements, a proper arrangement will first have to be put in place to decentralise or federalise Ukraine, at least in relation to the eastern oblasts. Parliament has so far refused to do so, and the government is also very reluctant to do so. However, this will have to happen at some point, otherwise talks will be doomed in advance. The Union is now committed to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u156	The Union is committed to all parties involved in the Minsk agreements in order to comply with the Minsk agreements. That applies to Ukraine and certainly to the Russian Federation. Mr Van Apeldoorn stressed the importance of democracy and the involvement of citizens in the European Union. I think that we agree on that immediately, certainly on the eve of major European elections. The Dutch Government is also strongly committed to strengthening the influence of citizens and national parliaments. One is the route of the green card procedure, so a number of national parliaments can say not only on a yellow side that they are stepping on the brakes, but that they can also say with a green card that they want an initiative to be properly taken up. Another area where we, as a government, are strongly attracted, by the way, in good cooperation with the Dutch Parliament, is more transparency. There is a need for confidentiality in decision-making in the European Union at a number of times, as is the case in Dutch politics. But there is really much more room to make documents and intermediate stages public in decision-making. We are also trying to get other European countries involved in this. Mr Schaap and Mrs Strik asked to discuss the development of the rule of law in a number of EU countries, specifically in Poland and Hungary where Article 7 procedures are now in progress. It was launched in Poland by the European Commission and started in Hungary by the European Parliament. The Netherlands considers the application of all constitutional values within the European Union to be one of the cornerstones. I said just now when I spoke about the internal market that the internal market is very sweet to me, but it is as sweet to me as it is to the shared constitutional values. We are sending that message bilaterally. I was in Hungary a few weeks ago, I was in Poland at the end of last year and I spoke about it not so long ago in Romania. That is the message we give within the European Union, in the Article 7 procedure which I have personally participated in a number of times. I supported Mrs Sargentini's report for European ministers. I have also argued that a hearing with Hungary should be organised, but there is no majority for that at the moment. In addition, the European Commission has, of course, also launched infringement proceedings at the European Court of Justice, both in the case of a number of new Polish laws and in the case of a number of new Hungarian laws. The Netherlands strongly supports the European Commission in this regard. I have already pointed out that one of our priorities in the design of a new European budget is to define the rule of law as a criterion for access to European funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u157	Mrs. Strik, one question!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u158	Is it true that the link with the multiannual financial framework plan is only discussed once that whole Article 7 procedure has been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u159	It's not that elaborate at the moment. Our commitment is to make that link. And how exactly, that's part of the negotiation. Mr Postema asked about the Dutch commitment to allow EU institutions to take their role in maintaining these values. The cabinet has decided to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the Netherlands is one of the tractors behind the peer review mechanism to test the constitutional qualities of European countries. I recently published a paper on this in Frankfurter Allgemeine together with the German and Belgian Foreign Ministers. So there too, the Netherlands is taking on its role, because it considers it so incredibly important for European cooperation. Mr Postema also commented on the friction that could exist between providing room for national interpretation by Member States and harmonisation. He asked why the government in the State of the Union indicated that it had a preference for directives and that it did not opt for regulations until afterwards. In general terms, it is indeed a very important issue. On the one hand there is a desire for customisation, often also in the Netherlands, but also in Hungary and Poland, for they explain what happens there as customization. On the other hand, we also feel that there is a need for harmonisation on issues that we consider to be extremely important. But this illustrates once again how complicated it is to achieve unanimity. The fact that we have the balance 'first a directive and if there is no other way' is because we do believe that Europe should not use a rigid straitjacket unnecessarily. There are national differences in the way in which public institutions are set up or the way in which society is organised, where, without harming the functioning of the European Union, there can also be room for national implementation. A regulation is, of course, very binding. So we're putting in a sequence without ruling out the possibility of regulations ever being used. Mr Postema also asked to respond to Mr Remkes' proposal for a European law. Others also went into that. The cabinet, specifically Mr Ollongren, comes with a full response to the opinions of the Remkes Committee. Then we will also discuss the possibility of a Europe law. Mr Ten Hoeve asked to comment on the situation in Spain and on the situation in Spain. Catalonia and the possibility of dual nationalities in South Tyrol. Both are really national issues. Spain simply has a functioning democracy and the rule of law. The way countries deal with dual nationalities is a national matter. The Netherlands also makes choices in this regard. It is not for me to comment on how other countries deal with it. Mr Van Dijk asked to review the concept of "Ever Closer Union." The cabinet has already indicated, in response, among other things, to the thorough note by his party colleague Bishop, that an interpretation of the European Union is not ours as ever wider and ever larger. You will also find this very clearly in the State of the Union. We are clear about the enormous importance of European cooperation, including the importance of deepening on the priorities we mention, but that also means that in areas that are not among the priorities, we do not see that role for the European Union, or at least much less. Mr Van Dijk also asked to address the complexity of the European Union and its implications for governance. "The cockpit is empty," that's what he called it. The European Union has a very complex set of institutions. I can't deny that. Even for those who are engaged in the European Union professionally or as politicians, it is often still a task to find out who is talking about what. This leads the cabinet to consider it important, on the one hand, to set the priorities that I have just mentioned, when it comes to areas of activity. And when it comes to the role of institutions, we must also be clear about the role that each institution must take. As regards the Commission, for example, we also make it very clear that we are opposed to a political Commission and that we consider it important that the Treaty be enforced. So we say to the Commission that it must maintain the treaties. She does this not in a political way, but in an objective way. Think, for example, of assessing the Stability and Growth Pact, although this also applies to other parts of the Treaties. The Commission is the initiator of new legislation, but does not assess on a case-by-case basis whether and to what extent treaties should be applied. By making it quite clear that action by the EU institutions must be based on treaties, a very constitutional approach, we want to reduce the confusion of roles and the complexity that already exists. That is quite a discussion on the European playing field. First of all, Mr Schaap referred to the formation of alliances by the Netherlands. He asked to go into the Franco-German axis. Mr Knapen asked to go into this in relation to the Hanseatic coalition. I think there is a great temptation to proceed to simplifications in the sense that there would be a fixed Franco-German axis. Last week, at least, it was not at the European Council on the extension of the Brexit. We also see in other parts that it is really not the case that France and Germany, however much they are aware of their historical responsibility, are always in agreement. We can also see that the Netherlands is in close contact with France and Germany and is therefore close to the Franco-German axis. For example, when I think of a subject such as migration, we are very much in favour of what President Macron wrote in his article on this subject, for example in the area of climate policy. In terms of financial soundness and the multiannual budget, we find more allies in the Hanseatic coalition, but that does not mean that the Hanseatic coalition is our logical ally in other areas as well. Climate policy, for example, is linked to other issues. The challenge for the Netherlands as a medium-sized country with, once again, much to be proud of, is to keep an eye on how the Dutch interest is served. That always means forming coalitions, but that does not mean forming solid coalitions. As Mr Backer said, the Benelux still plays an important role in this. I also mentioned the joint journey we are undertaking. We also very often agree on positions in areas such as the rule of law or in relation to nuclear disarmament at EU level. We also often have a joint input into the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u160	Let's talk about the Franco-German ashes. I do believe that these countries also disagree occasionally, but they have embraced each other quite well, for example in that Assembly. This makes it clear that they have decided to visit each other regularly. That's what I meant. They feel responsible for Europe, also for their own sake, of course. It would therefore be good for the Netherlands, also in view of our location, to join in a little and to avoid an opposition role to those two in any case optically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u161	But I said for a reason that this subject lends itself a little to caricatures, as if there were a fixed Franco-German axis. There isn't one. Everyone who followed last week's press has read endless articles about the tremendous tension that there was on the axis that you describe as an eternal friendship. I do recognise that they bear their historical responsibility for the European project and that they are aware of that, but the way in which the Stability and Growth Pact is to be implemented has always been the subject of discussion between the two countries. And there is no reason to be concerned about the Dutch role in that. Both the Prime Minister and my fellow Minister and I have very close contact with both France and Germany, often because we agree, sometimes because we disagree or disagree. But the Netherlands is highly valued there. Then the Brexit. Mr Backer asked what the Dutch commitment was to the Brexit negotiations and Mrs Faber called for a short delay. That's a past station by now. Fortunately, a longer delay has been chosen. I say "happy" because the Dutch bet "happy" is a question from Mr. Backer "happy" first of all to avoid a no-dealbrexit. The Netherlands is one of the UK's largest trading partners. Then I come back to cucumbers and tomatoes, which do indeed go massively to the United Kingdom without difficult controls. We really don't want to lose that. This also applies to many other products. There are tens of thousands of Dutch people living in the UK, and the other way around Britons living in the Netherlands, who look with care at the possibility of a no-dealbrexit. We have intensive cooperation in the field of security and justice. So our full commitment is to prevent a hard Brexit. If that's gonna take more time, it's gonna take more time. Eventually, the key is in London. The jumping point is the backstop for the Irish-Northern Irish border. That is not a subject that the Netherlands could say for a moment: forget it. That would give enormous new tensions at that border.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So it is really not in our interest to put water in the wine there now. Then I come to the question about the Council of Europe. Mr Van Apeldoorn replied. He asked me to give an opinion on the report by your colleague, Mr Kox. The cabinet has already expressed its views in a number of letters, first of all on the importance of a well-functioning Council of Europe, which we do not need to convince each other and on the desirability of Russia remaining a member of that Council of Europe. It is precisely in a world in which the tension is increasing that it is important to sit down with each other. And indeed, the entry of the inhabitants of the Russian Federation into the European Court is also of great value in itself. That will also be my contribution to the Helsinki Ministerial Summit. Mr Kox's report makes sensible recommendations to the Parliamentary Assembly, which I am not in. I think the recommendations themselves are sensible, but the government's commitment will be along the line I give you. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mrs Strik asked about the state of play concerning the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights. As the Chamber knows, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg has raised a number of objections to this accession. This affects, among other things, the distribution of responsibility. The European Commission is working on this. That has not yet led to a solution. To be honest, I'm afraid to predict how fast that is going. Finally, I come to a number of questions which were not to be classified under the previous chapters. Mr Schaap asked to address the global water issue, both within Europe and beyond. This is certainly an urgent issue, which, in all honesty, is mostly in the area of my colleagues. Mr Kaag has an extensive development cooperation programme, and IenW's colleague has regular discussions on this within the framework of European Councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u162	That there is regular consultation, I'm sure. But I was also concerned that this cabinet-wide should be brought into Europe and that it should be explicitly a subject on which Europe as a whole is concerned. Within Europe, it has everything to do with the cross-border issues relating to water and, of course, outside Europe, with the united action of Europe. I believe that trade ministers are involved in this regularly, but I want to make it an explicit European theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u163	Of course, but trade ministers are also very active at European level. I have to admit that in the Foreign Affairs Council or the General Affairs Council this issue is not logically on the agenda. Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen is fully committed to this both at European and bilateral level, especially after the last dry summer. Ms Faber spoke about the position of EU-critical parties within the European Parliament. In all honesty, this is an internal matter for the European Parliament. The Dutch cabinet has no direct influence on this. Mrs Teunissen asked to comment on the name of vegetarian products. Questions have also been asked in the House of Representatives to which my colleague Mr Bruins is going to answer shortly. I guess I'll have to wait for that too. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u164	Thank you. Then we'll get to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. The minister began his reply by saying something about the Notre-Dame. He referred to the European Union's commitment to the shock and how we react to it. I would like to make a nuance: the PVV Group was also shocked, but felt more connected with Europe and its Christian culture. Further on, the Marrakesh Treaty. I don't think we're gonna get out of that tonight. Time will tell, but I'm afraid it'll be too late. There is a lot of criticism of Trump and his America First. But the European Union is in fact doing the same thing and putting self-interest first, especially France and Germany. So we're really no more Roman than the Pope. About Trump: he may have his own style, but he is the only one who dares to come out for his friendship with Israel. Then trade before there was a European Union. Looking at the ceiling in this beautiful room, we see all the trading partners of the then republic of the Netherlands. We see French, Spanish, Turks, Persians, Poland, Russians, Germans and Italians or English. They haven't figured it out yet whether they're Italians or English. They all look down curiously, at the prosperity of the small but mighty Holland. All this without the EU ever being in sight. So that's a nice pick-me-up about the past. Then we see the gap between the elite and the people growing within the European Union. This was already clear in 2005, when the Netherlands and France voted away the constitution. Then it was all put aside and now the same thing happens again with the Brexit. This cannot be dealt with in an ordinary, orderly manner. It does not look at the cause of this discontent, Mr Van Apeldoorn's colleague, Mr Van Apeldoorn, but rather tries to keep everyone in the straitjacket. Let us look at the impact of the European Union on the people. For example, look at the middle class and the lower class. They benefit much less from the European Union than the higher class and those with higher education. We also see migrant workers moving from east to west. We see people from Ukraine going to Poland. And the Poles are coming back to us. When I hear Mr Schaap van de VVD, he says that this labour migration is necessary. In the meantime, however, he says that these countries themselves want to keep their highly educated people. So we'll only get the low-educated here. I mean, we already have enough of those ourselves, so that doesn't make much sense. Let me get this straight. I went into Mr. Knaps from the CDA earlier. I would like to add a few words to that. The PVV is certainly in favour of cooperation and we are in favour of economic cooperation, but we are not in favour of surrender to a European superstate. Those are very different things, aren't they? 'Cause we've got less and less to tell. In fact, the European Parliament can only say yes or no to pre-cooked proposals. So what else do we have to put in there? The decision-making process within the European Council is very opaque. We cannot even know how the European Council voted. That's kind of weird, isn't it? In the European Commission, the positions are divided by hand. The growing gap between the elite and ordinary citizens is therefore not surprising. If a European Union is to be successful, we must first look at how a bridge can be built between ordinary people and the elite. If that doesn't happen, it's just not gonna work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u166	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u167	Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. There is one aspect I would like to return to: our relationship with the east side of the European Union. I referred to the downside of the open borders for people. I understand that the Minister also clearly sees that emptying these countries is a problem. Unlike Mrs Faber, I am not talking primarily about those who are less educated, but about those who are more educated. The framework runs away: the people who have had a good vocational training, but also those who formed academically. In the longer term, this will be a major disaster for these countries. I hope that this will keep the attention of the Minister and the Cabinet, taking into account the fundamental values that we have in Europe, such as the open borders, also in favour of those countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u168	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. Mr Van Apeldoorn has asked to be skipped because he is still working on something. Or are you ready? No? That's what I thought. Mr. Knapen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u169	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. It is a debate with a touch of melancholy here and there, I think. I did not see Mr Ten Hoeve explain once again the layering in the relationship between citizens, the region, the nation state and Europe. I know how close that layering is to him. Mr. Chairman. The criticism and displeasure about Europe, in my opinion, is also an element of uncertainty about elusive globalisation. Indeed, it increases the distance between those who are the winners and the losers. I believe that the European Union should not only be the symbol of globalisation, but also, and perhaps more, the symbol of protection. I think some things have been said about that. I am glad to hear that the Minister thinks that we should try to move together when it comes to 5G and Huawei, or as we say here, 'how ai wai'. That is important for two reasons. If you do an alley entrance, as threatened last week in response to the espionage at ASML, you put yourself at a disadvantage in relation to your surroundings, without having anything to do with it. It also has something potty, because the Netherlands actually warns China for the last time. These discussions, the European General Reviews, are complicated. When you look over such a day, everyone does their best and starts presenting the sculpture that he or she has chiseled at home. In the course of the day, you will see with everyone who participates, including myself, that it will eventually fall apart into all kinds of debris. The Minister has the clean task of sweeping up all these debris and crumbs with sweeper and look and making a nice pile of them. That ends in dust, also dust for thought. Perhaps it is a matter of thinking about how to give such a debate exactly hands and feet in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u170	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u171	Mr President, thank you. I can be brief. I am also pleased that my group welcomes a large part of the tone today in the debate of many of the groups here in this House, even during the state of the Union itself. We are also pleased with the way in which the Minister went about doing so. Europe is not something of whether or not it is. The most important thing is how we shape it ourselves. We shouldn't run away from that responsibility. I believe that this debate has done the right thing. I would like to thank the Minister for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u172	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering some of the questions. I know his style, which I would like to qualify as serrated. I know that from previous debates. I can't change that. And I know he's very effective with that, too. The minister also mentioned the Notre-Dame. I just read on the news that several French billionaires had donated a lot of money and that our André Rieu has donated 700 tons of steel. They could use one of his stairs. So we also put a dime in the bag. The cabinet is clear about the focus, says the minister. That is true, but I sometimes listen to a very transactional approach to Europe in which the values are a bit lost. I have also mentioned the social pillar, but it has not come back at all. The risk is that the transactional will be assessed only on the output. The inspiration behind that, then, actually falls a little away. The input can also be valuable, for example to explain that the transaction sometimes did not achieve what one would like. Mr. Chairman. Let me give you a few figures on migration. There is always talk of mass immigration and huge numbers. The number of asylum permits issued in the Netherlands over the last 10 years is on average 16,000, 16,323. So that's not mass immigration. I would also mention, for example, that 17 million European citizens live in one EU country or another. So it's a huge movement going on there. Anyway, I just wanted to mention that for the Acts. I very much appreciate the Minister's visits to Niger and other complex countries. That's good for the fact finding, but it's also good for people there to put their hearts in the ring. Mr. Chairman. I have many comments on the MFF and conditionality, but we have already discussed this in an interruption. I believe that conditionality for the euro area budget can of course never last ten years, because the countries do not have their budget in order under the Growth Pact and then a decision is taken at some point. I think that's good, too. I also hope that we will participate. Mr. Chairman. Really passionate I saw the minister at the cucumbers. I do think that is essentially the dialogue we should have with Mr Faber and others. It turns out she wants to go back to the 17th century. I've been looking for a point on the timeline we had to go to, but it's the 17th century. That's where the cucumber led us. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question for the cabinet, one that the Minister has really not answered. What will the cabinet do before the 23rd of May elections? Anything else coming? Is there another campaign going on? I also wish the Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u174	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Let me take a look at Mr Van Apeldoorn. Mr. Van Apeldoorn, are you ready? I now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions. I'll start with the Brexit class. Our question, but also the question put by other groups, was: are the concerns underlying the Brexit and living in other countries adequately addressed? What about democratic legitimacy, for example? Then the Minister says: as a government, we are serious about this. And then, as an example, he mentions the green card. But that's the end of it. I think that's a little skinny. Does he really think that if we introduce this green card, we will take away the discontent in many countries about this alienating EU? Mr Kuiper also mentioned this. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to come up with a broader story on this matter. I would like to come to the geopolitics, including the Acts. The minister said to me "in your words." But it wasn't my words. They were the words of the Prime Minister, who talked about "the geopolitical backyard." I just distanced myself from those words. I objected to that kind, as I called it, neo-imperialistic terminology. I note that the Minister does not share that objection, because he takes over and also talks about 'the geopolitical backyard'. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at this, which countries he believes belong to and whether those countries are aware that we see them as 'geopolitical backyard'. How does he see that as Secretary of State? I continue to call on the government, as I have mentioned, to resist geopolitical temptation and not to think that the problems of instability and insecurity in the world can be solved if the EU presents itself as a political and military superpower. We shouldn't go that way. This also means that we must ensure that we give up our national veto in areas of foreign policy. Finally, I come to the internal market. A lot has been said about that, too. With the WRR, we have found that the internal market is sometimes too rigid, too rigid in its design and creates obstacles to the establishment of its own policies in many areas. Social care has been mentioned in this context, including in the coalition agreement. But as far as we are concerned, there are other areas for which this applies. On this point, I would like to join with what we have heard, for example, from our colleague in the Christian Union, namely that there may be a need for more variation and an inventory of this cabinet where that policy space should then be in relation to that internal market, whether there should be no more action in this respect than is currently being done in that area, and whether the internal market, although it also brings many benefits, does not also imply certain obstacles that could be removed. We have not really received a full reply from the Minister on this point. We would encourage the government to do even more, also in response to the WRR report, and to make it possible to explore further the possibilities and opportunities for the European market organisation. That is why I shall table the next motion in the second term. The President shall: Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Kuiper, Mr Teunissen, Mr Diederik van Dijk and Mr Reuten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the free competition of the internal market may conflict with public interests;]] [[Whereas in its report on "European variations" the WRR stresses that the internal market is not an end in itself but at the service of the social market economy;]] [[Whereas, in its response to the WRR report, the government states that the approach of the report is in line with the current cabinet commitment to the future of the internal market;]] [[whereas the Single Market can be too rigid in its work in a number of areas and, in line with the WRR report, there is a need for more variation, which leaves more room for Member States and local authorities to make their own assessments;]] [[Whereas such a variation could strike a better balance between economic interests and public interests than the current one-size-fits-all approach;]] [[Whereas, for example, in the functioning of the European Procurement Directive, this balance is lacking in a number of areas and the own policy space is being restricted;]] [[Considering, inter alia, that social care, in particular youth and home care, faces many obstacles as a result of the European procurement rules and that the government shares the concern;]] [[Whereas in other areas too strict, uniform internal market exists;]] [[calls on the Government to present an exploratory analysis on how to adapt the European market organisation in such a way as to remove identified obstacles to the serving of public interests, thereby achieving greater variation in the internal market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also thank you for letting me get in line a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u177	You're welcome, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u178	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. In the first term, a number of spokesmen already looked back on their period here in the Upper House. That inspired me to look at my own maiden speech, which perhaps was not coincidentally about the Dutch commitment to the European Council where a new treaty was discussed after the death of the European Constitution. It seems a long time ago, but Mr Kuiper also gave his maiden speech. That referendum result had made the Dutch government more frightened, national and defensive, I noted in 2007. Maybe the effect of that referendum result is still following, because before 2005 we saw the European Union as a matter of course, but after that nobody wanted to argue, defend or explain it anymore. I think the Brexit put a turn in that. For European cooperation, there are now many more people to poke at, yet you can see that some sort of re-bronning is needed. If Europe really wants to be citizens, then policy will also have to serve their interests better. I have the feeling that this awareness has penetrated many more countries, but in this cabinet I still see too little in the stakes. The cabinet now dares to stand up for the EU much more clearly, but it does not show any change in the stakes; no flight ahead, it sticks in the status quo. It is precisely this that does not give you the energy and solutions needed for a future European Union. When I look at the Dutch commitment, the ambitions that the Minister has just expressed here, for example with regard to climate, I still see a gap between words and actions. We see that our own performance is lagging behind, that we are still dangling a bit at the bottom of those lists. But even if you look at the commitment to the MFF, you can only see that we have to want more than just say that certain percentages of the current subsidies should be earmarked for this purpose. And how would you like to argue for a CO tax at EU level? Then you also avoid the risk of companies leaving, which the cabinet also seems afraid of, because then there is no escape for companies anymore. That is the kind of ambition you will really have to try to achieve at EU level. The same applies to tax avoidance. The cabinet often has nice words for that. Minister Blok believes that there have been significant steps in this direction. But what do we see? That the tax rulings are still going through. We see that we are obstructing effective decision-making at European level on tax avoidance, as Minister Blok just indicated, so companies can simply continue to collect their profits and not give them to governments. In any case, the Minister feels that it should be defended. He says we're not tax haven, just look at the OECD criteria. But yes, the OECD criteria have been established on the basis of global negotiations. I do not think that is a real ambition, and I would find it more logical that you should try to move forward at Union level. Finally, on the rule of law. I appreciate the efforts of the Netherlands to establish a link between the funds and the rule of law, but it is crucial what this link means. If that means that it will only be used once the whole Article 7 procedure has been completed, and we see how difficult it is to achieve, while Hungary is so clearly violating the rules, I have little faith in it. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Dutch commitment could be to apply some criteria other than the Article 7 procedure. In addition to the Article 7 procedure, which is proving very difficult, there is also the peer review procedure, which the Netherlands is in favour of or is in favour of. That too is a procedure of mutual appeal. I have the feeling that this is constantly the weakest place in all these state-of-the-art monitoring systems. That is why I would like to support what the European Parliament has come up with, namely that fundamental rights problem, which is an independent measure of the rule of law. Could the Netherlands make itself a little harder for that? I think we need more of an independent actor instead of just covering each other up. Finally. Perhaps saying out loud is what you think of how certain Member States behave, even a form of pressure. I do not hear enough of that either. I can see it happening in Italy. There we dare to act hard and make harsh judgments in the public. Let us also do this more often and more clearly with those Member States that no longer take the rule of law seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, many thanks to the Minister for the debate we had with him on this day. I'll be very brief. In my contribution at the end, I said something about the movement between government and Chamber and the suggestion made by the Remkes Committee for a Europe Act. I do not think I have heard this back, but I would like to have a short reaction to that. After all, it is about our mutual circulation of information and agreements. I would also like to point out that the motion tabled by Mr Van Apeldoorn was indeed supported by our group, and my signature is included. I tried to have that debate here today, inspired by the WRR report. We had a brief exchange of views with the Minister. I indicated at that time that I think it really is a new moment in the reflection on the internal market, that such a study as that of the WRR does not come out of the sky, that it also speaks of a fixation on uniformity when it comes to the application of European rules, that much more flexibility is possible, and that with the justification the desire for greater protection of the individuality of Member States. There is also a kind of political weighting in the prospect of what is really needed in the context of national interests and public interests, which need to be weighed. I cannot say it more beautiful than Mr Van Apeldoorn, who has said very good things about it. And I think it would be important for us to really move in this direction. Hence the support for the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u181	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u182	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. I found the response on climate and also in relation to agricultural policy very brief. We can see that Europe has extremely sad, poor climate objectives. We are now heading to 3,2°C, while a maximum of 1,5°C is necessary to limit the warming to avoid a disastrous tilting point. I would therefore like to encourage the government to make a genuine commitment to the more ambitious objectives it has set itself in Europe. I would also like to come back to the issue of names for meat substitutes. I am aware of the questions raised by my group on the other side, but this discussion has been going on since 2012. In 2017, the cabinet took the clear view that it sees nothing as a ban on the current names for vegetarian and plant products. We do not often have European reflections, so I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the government to argue in Europe too that the current names for meat substitutes can simply continue to exist. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Reuten and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture has adopted an amendment advocating that names such as sausage, citizen, schnitzel et cetera (under Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011) _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR__ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR__ _BAR__ _BAR___ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR__ _BAR_ _BAR_ _ _BAR_ _BAR_ _ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ ……]] [[Whereas the said words refer only to a form of appearance, and not to its content;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet position in 2017 was that "The current legislation on the designation of foodstuffs is adequate. Within the framework of this legislation, entrepreneurs keep freedom in the designation of their foodstuffs.';]] [[Whereas there are no facts or circumstances giving reason to depart from the previous cabinet position;]] [[calls on the Government to rule in the Council against this restriction of freedom of action for economic operators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Then I have to say that I will not put the motion to the vote until the answer is received on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u184	May I have a more detailed answer from you? Can I have an explanation? How long do you think that's gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u185	I think this is... I don't know the exact deadline. I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u186	We are now very strict with deadlines for tabling and holding motions, and so on. You're filing a motion, and at the same time you're saying, "I'll hold her." Isn't that what you're saying? Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u187	That depends on when the questions have been answered. If the questions have been answered earlier, I can simply put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u188	Before what? Then next week? In principle, we will vote on the motion next week. You're filing a motion now. In principle, this motion will be put to the vote next week. You expect those questions to be answered, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u189	I must remain guilty of the answer, because I don't know the time limit across the street. Maybe the Minister knows. He's just been asking around. Maybe he knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u190	No. Now the time is running for the maximum time that we are currently holding on to motions. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u191	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u192	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u194	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. It was a debate with many observations and reflections. I would add one more, noting that a large part of the First Chamber is still really from the old school when it comes to Europe. For many years, many citizens have been trying to feel uncomfortable about Brussels' meddling. They do not recognise themselves in the European administration. They don't feel seen and heard. About you, without you: that feeling. And a majority in the First Chamber says rather dryly: "We must have more Europe. That's the solution. We just need to explain it better one more time." A consistent line maybe, but with one problem: it doesn't work. Europe must know its borders, both geographically and in terms of tasks. Furthermore, this debate has dealt a great deal with the identity of Europe, the question of who we are and what we stand for. You can't answer that question with purchasing power cards. It is also very doubtful whether the belief in diversity or in melting ice caps provides sufficient outcome and guidance in times of crisis. In the past, the identity of Europe was stamped by the Christian tradition. That tradition was far from perfect. I certainly don't look at the past with pink glasses. But it did give an inspiring connection, a compass, a direction, a foundation for values and standards. I think a lot of people are gonna be craving that bigger story anyway. A well-known American psychologist and publicist recently said about Europe: "All your history is in museums. No wonder you can't learn from it." Indeed, do we draw enough from our long history? And wouldn't it be a profit if we rediscovered that public meaning of the Christian faith? Maybe that fire at the Notre-Dame is a wake-up call. We have many good things, many beautiful things to thank for the Christian tradition. Unfortunately, sometimes we don't find out until it's broken. Let us not let it get this far in Europe. Finally. I am pleased that Minister Blok does not reject Trump's forthcoming plan for the Middle East Peace Process in advance, as was the thrust of the open letter of 25 European dignitaries, but that he is going to assess the plan on his merits. In my view, a different attitude would not be wise either; as if the EU itself had presented so much as a solution to this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u196	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. We have now reached the second deadline on the part of the Minister. I'm asking the Minister if he's willing and able to answer directly, or if he wants a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u197	Right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u198	Good. I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Faber referred to the impressive ceiling of this Chamber. I have always been told that the States of Holland looked with some concern at the peoples around the Netherlands, who eagerly looked at Dutch prosperity. And with a large part of it, we also waged war or at least we had to pay a lot of toll in the Sont in order to trade with the Baltic Sea. The middle class or subclass Mrs Faber mentioned, which she said would not benefit from the European Union, was in any case incredibly heavy in the Golden Age, which she glorified. It is an image we really do not help the Netherlands with. We have a lot to be proud of, but the future is not behind us but ahead of us. We really have a great interest in European cooperation. Mrs Faber and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked me to look again at the causes of the Brexit. To a large extent, they are specifically British. The debate on participation in the European Union has been a heated British debate for decades. I do not take it for granted that there will always be support for the European Union in the Netherlands, but I note that I have already referred to the SCP study, which is currently there. I think it is a task for me and my colleagues to continue to pay close attention to the fact that the European Union is doing things that are useful, that are in the Dutch interest and that are in our common interest. As different as the situation in the United Kingdom and here may be, a lesson from the Brexit is that you have to keep in touch with what people themselves experience from that international cooperation. Mr Schaap once again referred to the emptying-out of Eastern Europe. I have made many visits to Eastern European countries recently. I also see colleagues once, twice a month. My view is that there is a concern, but I never really hear a question from them to limit free movement. Their question is much more: help us with the further development. I think that's the right route, too. Fortunately, I was able to satisfy Mr Knapen when it comes to joint action towards China and not just to see the country as a threat. I agree with him where he says that the European Union must also provide protection against geopolitical challenges, such as China's rise. The same applies to ordinary Dutch and European citizens who want their jobs and their safety to be guaranteed. We can only guarantee this through European cooperation. In Mr Knapen's metaphor, this is a sculpture that we continue to plan and chisel to reach the Michelangelo. I sometimes disagreed with Mr Postema, but I did agree with his summary: do not run away from shaping the European Union. I regard this as an explicit responsibility of me and my colleagues in the cabinet. In my contribution, Mr Backer did not consider the value of the European Union sufficiently important. I am truly convinced that if you ask my Polish, Hungarian or Romanian colleagues whether they hear loud and clear from me, and for example from the Justice and Security Commissioner, what is the Dutch position on the situation of the rule of law, they will confirm that the Netherlands is loud and clear about this, as loud and clear as we are about our concerns about Italy's financial position. Perhaps it is less noticeable here because we in the Netherlands take it for granted that a Dutch government does, but for those countries it is loud and clear. I have taken up social Europe. I have outlined that the level of social security, of social protection, in the Netherlands is one of the world summits and also one of the European summits. And I do not see any advantages in pursuing a sort of European average. That would always bring about a reduction for the Netherlands. In this respect, I am also in the company of that vast majority of the SCP research, which also indicates that there is no added value of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u200	So that there is no misunderstanding on this point the following. First of all, I apologise if I have not properly represented you on that point. Secondly, I am not talking about lowering the Dutch standard to average, but about helping to increase or invest in that of the other countries. I don't think we should get out of this debate right now, but that was my observation and my wish. So it wasn't the way you summarized it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u201	This is a fascinating debate in itself, but I do not think it is realistic to expect Eastern or Southern European countries with a very different tradition, economy and a very different level of prosperity at the moment to have their own ambition to copy the very Dutch system. There are hardly any countries with a funded pension system, as we know. That is what the Netherlands and Denmark have as well as Switzerland, but it is not in the European Union. That can't be copied for other countries. I know that there is a lot of discussion in the Netherlands about the AOW, but it is true that AOW is very scarce in Europe for people who have not worked. A large prosperous country like Germany does not have it, nor does it have it at the level of the Netherlands. In my opinion, AOW is the largest independent item in the Dutch budget. So expressing the wish that other European countries will offer a similar level of social security, such a world unfolds... Well, that's an interesting discussion, but we're not gonna be able to do that tonight. Indeed, I owed Mr. Backer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u202	Mrs. Strik also wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u203	The Minister is now talking about a whole system of social services, but the discussion is of course also about whether there should be a minimum wage in all Member States. That is precisely part of the discussion: to try to reach a certain level in the European Union, which also benefits the internal market. Does the Minister have the same reasoning? Or is the Dutch commitment more positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u204	I'd like to think with you on that, too. The Dutch minimum wage is high within Europe and in the world. What should I discuss with Bulgaria or Romania about a European minimum wage? We don't want to go to a level they can pay and our level they can't pay, so it's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u205	I'm sorry, but for the record, I'd like to say the following. I am actually talking about the same thing as Mr Backer just did. It is not a question of having one level, but of advocating and ensuring that a minimum wage is set in proportion to or in proportion to the gross national product. So at all a level, and that can of course be different in all Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u206	But that raises questions. All these countries have their own parliament and their own elections. They are very capable of having that discussion. Social security is a national competence. I just indicated that I don't see any benefits for the Netherlands to change that. What would we say if the Romanian Foreign Minister came and told us what we should think of our minimum wage? I think we'd look at him with some surprise. Indeed, Mr Backer owed me an answer to the question about the cabinet commitment to the forthcoming European elections. We will indeed be campaigning again to promote turnout, because they are important elections. Unfortunately, they traditionally have a low turnout, but we will do our best. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the Brexit. I have indicated to Mrs Faber how I interpret the consequences. Then the geopolitical backyard. I think I have made it quite clear that, whether it is the Eastern Partnership or the relationship with North Africa and the Sahel, there are clear European and Dutch interests to establish contact with these countries. My travel schedule also shows that I regularly visit those countries. By the way, they also see this importance. They are on the edge of that huge market of 500,000 million people and see that part of their population, often a large part, has a dream of going there. These governments are interested in accessing our market and often also want access for their people to our labour market. It is no secret that we have partnerships with them in all kinds of ways. Both sides see the importance of these contacts, often with a different commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u207	It is late and people may want to watch Ajax-Juventus, but I would like to have noticed here that I am pleased with the word 'partnership', but I think that sounds very different than 'geopolitical backyard'. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is dus maar net welke woorden je kiest.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u208	Yes. I always enjoy spending time in my backyard; at least I have to correct myself immediately.I sometimes dream of spending time there. I don't have a negative connotation. Then there is the motion to letter D, in which Mr Van Apeldoorn asks for a very broad, exploratory analysis. The motion states that, while there may also be a strict, uniform internal market in other areas, the government is calling for an exploratory analysis of how to adapt the European market organisation so as to remove obstacles to the service of public interests. This is so broad and undetermined that I cannot reasonably fill in on top of a WRR report that has been done for two years to write it. What can I promise Mr Van Apeldoorn and the other proposers? The ESC will shortly launch a similar investigation, to which the cabinet will respond. I would therefore like to assure the Chamber that in the cabinet's response to the ESC report we will discuss whether the European market organisation, competition control, needs to be strengthened further. But the motion as it stands, which calls for a whole new government investigation, I must advise against. Mrs Strik asked me to discuss conditionality with regard to the rule of law. In any case, I can say that our commitment is not that it should be interpreted so strictly that conditionality does not start until the Article 7 procedure does not work. With regard to the peer review mechanism, she called on me to choose the European Parliament's wish for a legal approach. There is certainly no support for that. That's a dead end. I have no guarantee at all that a peer review mechanism will work, because the countries that support it now... I have already indicated that I have published an article on this with two colleagues. These are then the most openly supporting countries. There are others, but we are far from 28 or 27 countries. Here the better really is the enemy of good. I'm already very happy if the peer review mechanism is going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u209	I shall return to the motion which the Minister has just advised against. An exploratory analysis can be understood in various ways. The Minister thinks a whole investigation is too broad. We would like to know what the government thinks of the points raised in this motion. If the government wants to wait for the SER report first, that is fine, but I would ask the Minister if he can promise in a letter that this motion will be included in the response to the SER report. I am thinking of the operative part of the motion: where do governments see the obstacles and how can they be dealt with? Then the government can take that in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u210	I have the motion before me and it is one of the longest motions that I have seen in my long parliamentary history. On the basis of a huge row of considerations, the motion asks for a new investigation. I really want to be clear about that: I do not think that is reasonable. The WRR has spent two years working on it with expert people. What I do want to give you, however, is that there will be a government response to the SER study. I want to do that, but a whole new investigation, as requested by the motion, and so broadly defined? I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u211	I'm gonna try one more time. I would ask for a commitment from the Minister to include this motion in a letter, in response to the ESC report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u212	This motion calls for a wide-ranging investigation. I would like to say that I would like to respond to the ESC report, because the ESC is still doing that work. It is then logical that we should come up with a well-founded response to this. You may be able to assess whether you see specific other areas in which you also want an analysis after the arrival of our letter in response to the SER report. Well, that makes it more specific. This is so wide, I don't know where to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u213	I'd like to give it a try. We can all read. You say that there will be a SER report to which the cabinet will respond. Then you can take into account what has been discussed this afternoon and this evening in the debate and what is expressed in the recitals of the motion? If it's business the same... That's what we need to know about each other right now. Is that assignment to the SER business the same as what we're talking about here? It is about the possibility of making national variations to European internal market rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u214	I think it would be wisest to await the ESC report and its response. You could hold the motion until then. I have to do it with the text before me and it is very, very broad. The question is why I am going to have to work on this for a lot of people, because the motion is so broad that it is going to have to go ahead with it, when we know that this SER research is coming. Mr Kuiper asked about the Europe Act. I think I've gone along with that. The cabinet will respond to the Remkes Committee's report and will also comment on the proposal for a European law. Ms Teunissen asked the cabinet to focus on a more ambitious EU climate objective. That's what we do. We see the importance of a more ambitious Europe-wide commitment. Mrs Teunissen has tabled a motion which also puts me somewhat in trouble. I have Mrs Teunissen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u215	Minister, he's been apprehended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u216	Oh, he's been arrested?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u217	He's been arrested right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u218	It was not quite clear to me that it was stopped. Otherwise my question would be: hold it until the honourable Member has answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u219	Mrs Teunissen's motion was held, immediately upon filing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u220	Mr Van Dijk will probably speak in the future as soon as the American Government's plans on the Middle East are known. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-9.u222	We have one motion to vote on next week, so I propose that we vote on Mr Van Apeldoorn's motion next week. But before you all think 'we can leave', that is not yet the case.
