ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we have now come to the final question. This is presented by Mrs Tielen of the VVD to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about redundancy payments for failing employees. I call Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An article that was published in the Dutch Financial Journal last Thursday reminded me of a conversation I had recently with an SME entrepreneur. He had an employee who stole production equipment. The employee took that home, went to make products of it and sell it. Of course, the employee was fired. The entrepreneur did not intend to pay a fine in the form of a transition fee. At least, the entrepreneur experienced that fee so, as a fine. The legal procedure is still under way and the entrepreneur must invest a great deal of energy and money in it. But what is perhaps even more important is that this affects his sense of justice. He can't understand that he should pay that fine when he's not to blame. The same applies to the employers in the article. That is why I would like to ask the Minister the following questions. How often does the problem arise that Het Financieele Dagblad sketches? How often do employers have to pay a transition fee while the employee is dismissed for his misconduct? Secondly, does the Labour Market Act, which will enter into force in January 2020, bring greater clarity to SME entrepreneurs when they fire someone, or is it becoming more unclear? And what does the Minister do to ensure that SME entrepreneurs know what they are up to in such cases? Third. The law makes a difference between "declarable behaviour" and "serious culpable behaviour." That difference has quite a number of consequences for the rights to transition compensation. For SMEs who do not employ all kinds of HR advisors and business lawyers, and there are a lot of SMEs, this leads to a feeling of uncertainty. And if we can't explain it with our common sense, isn't the law too broad? And can we do something about that? Finally, Mr President. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that it is perceived as a fine for firing someone for misconduct, and then having to pay tens of thousands of euros to that dismissed person? That doesn't make sense. Can the Minister explain this? And how do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I would like to thank Mrs Tielen for the questions she has put. I also read the article in The Financial Daily. I shall deal with the questions on a point-by-point basis. I understand Mrs Tielen's question very well. I also speak to entrepreneurs who were involved in such a case. Indeed, you hear very often that it feels unjust to have to pay a transition fee even though there is a sense of culpable action. How often does it happen? In 2017 we had an evaluation of the Hugo Sinzheimer Institute, two and a half years after the introduction of the Work and Security Act. That's where the transition fee was introduced. Until 2017, two and a half years after the introduction, there appeared to have been 116 serious culpable actions by the employee and 110 times no transition fee has been paid for the culpable actions of the employee. So you can see that the canton court is actually looking at the case in practice. There have also been a few exceptions, for example someone who has made one mistake but has worked well for the rest for 30 years and has had good reviews. He received a modified transition fee, for example half a transition fee. The Court of Justice therefore looks at the facts and the circumstances every time, and at what has happened over the past ten to twenty years to arrive at an assessment of the termination of employment. Will the WAB, the Labour Market Act in balance, provide more clarity? In part, yes, because the transition fee in the Labour Market Act has been harmonised in balance: a third month per year worked. In the Work and Security Act, it was higher. Especially for people over 50 with a long employment there was a high transition fee. We have now aligned them for everyone, regardless of age. I think that is more transparent, including to employers and entrepreneurs. Of course, we have also introduced the cumulation ground in the Labour Market Act in balance, making it possible to combine different dismissal grounds. You often see in practice that, on the one hand, there are distorted industrial relations, but there are also other issues that are going on, which, in particular, make SME employers say: I cannot go on with this person. Of course, we also made that possibility in the Labour Market Act in balance. Your third question dealt with the distinction between culpable and seriously objectionable. That has been a very long discussion in the treatment of the Work and Security Act of my predecessor. That was called the mouse hole. It was intended that the standard would be that the transition fee would become very predictable in most cases, precisely to create predictability for entrepreneurs, except where there was serious culpable behaviour, such as theft or other major cases. The judge would judge that. Those are the things I was just talking about: 116 cases of serious culpable action and 110 cases where no transition fee was paid for culpable action. The question is: isn't that law too broad? The analysis we have done does not indicate this. It shows that it is really an exception and not an ongoing practice. I think those were the questions you asked. Is that right? Or did I skip one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister says that the distinction between serious culpable and culpable comes from the Work and Security Act. In itself, this does not change with the Labour Market Act in balance, but it does change with the cumulation ground. In itself, we support this, because it is ultimately about employers and their employees being able to do good things together for their business and for our economy. At the same time, there is also the risk that it will become more unclear. Is the Minister prepared to look at this in balance shortly after the Labour Market Act enters into force, with extra vigilance, in order to ensure that SME entrepreneurs are aware of this? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that they are informed? Secondly, how is he going to ensure that this does not unnecessarily confuse them and leads to annoying fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mrs. Tielen is right. In any case, we must avoid it leading to confused people. That is why we have also started an information campaign for the introduction of the Labour Market Act in balance. It's running now. A great deal of attention has been paid to all aspects, including premium differentiation and the cumulation ground. In the Labour Market Balance Act, we have limited the use of the cumulation ground to a maximum of 1.5 times the transition fee. But the practice will, of course, have to show how the canton court deals with this. We're gonna keep the finger on the wrist and we're gonna monitor it. I promised the Chamber I'd give you an overview of that. But it is also partly case law that needs to be filled in. That is, of course, always complicated in the case of legislative changes. The canton judges need a certain amount of time to arrive at a kind of standard that is also recognised by entrepreneurs. So in part it is inevitable that the first period will become a search of canton judges: how do we deal with this in practice? On January 1st 2020 this will go in, so in two months, and we will of course follow it and keep our finger on the pulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	I understand that the case law has to be followed. That it takes time, I get it. At the same time, many employers, entrepreneurs, have to do with this. So at what time would the Minister want to and can he indicate something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	For that, I have to dig very deep into my memory. In my view, I have already included this in the assessment clause in the legal process of the Labour Market Act. After five years, the evaluation is, but my experience is that if there are any signals earlier, we will have a debate on this with your Chamber before. 'Cause your room's always on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	I was a little surprised that this question was passed on, but perhaps the Minister could...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	Is that a criticism of the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	I wouldn't do it, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, I'll do it anyway. I would like to know from the Minister whether the lamentation of the VVD is justified. In my view, you have just indicated that the Labour Market Act has also made it cheaper for many employers, because a lot of older people can be cheaply worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	In fact, the transition fee has been reduced, but that of course has a good reason. Because we know that, especially among the SME entrepreneurs, many employers are afraid to offer people a permanent contract because of Mrs Tielen, as Mrs Tielen said, the uncertainty about possible redundancy compensation, but also because of the risks of payment of wages in the event of illness. With both, both the Labour Market Act in balance and the package that I have agreed with the employers and the trade unions on pay in case of illness, I am also trying to reduce the risks of employers. I do so in the hope and expectation that employers will offer more easily fixed contracts. Because the problem that entrepreneurs often encounter is that the uncertainty of the fixed contract is the reason to escape in flex constructions and payroll constructions. I don't want to do that, and neither does Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	A second supplementary question to a question which you do not think should have been passed on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Then you'll have to invite another colleague, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna take the chance anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Minister states that employers are going to hire people sooner. We were already sceptical about that. But we can see that, at the moment, older people are not easily helped to work. I know this Minister is very positive, but the figures really do not show that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	My motto is: optimism is a moral duty. The second is that last week I answered some of Mrs Van Brenk's parliamentary questions, which stated that unemployment, particularly among the elderly, had fallen sharply and that a lot of people had found their way back to the labour market. I can only be positive and happy about that. Mrs Van Brenk has a point that is certainly true for older workers that if they are fired, the chances of them returning are just less than those of people aged 25 to 45 years. That is why the action plan for older people is also running on the labour market. First with Ambassador John the Wolf, but now he's got a new job, coaching my club. But there are also, of course, many other instruments, such as wage costs benefits, which are aimed at supporting and strengthening the labour market position of older workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
