ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the pension agreement. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and give Mr Asscher the floor as the first speaker on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm so glad we can talk about a pension agreement here. Retirement is a sensitive and emotional subject, because we worry when old age comes. Am I gonna stay healthy? Is there enough money? And we're also worried because we know it's unfairly distributed. Some people start working younger and have a lower life expectancy when the retirement date comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u3	We've just had a good talk about when and when we shouldn't be interrupting. Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u4	I was wondering if Mr. Asscher read this paper here this morning. This is De Volkskrant, by the way. That's not really my newspaper, it's more the newspaper of the PvdA. It says: the ink of the pension agreement is still fresh, but the hoped-for increase in pension benefits is already at risk. In the rest of the article, it is very clear that Mr Draghi's action combined with Mr Dijsselbloem's binding opinion has increased the risk of a reduction. So there is no less chance of discounts and it is not about being happy with the agreement. But there is an increased chance of discount! Mr. Asscher, you've been beeped. The question is, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u5	I come later in my speech to the new contract and therefore to interest. So I'll leave it to the chairman. What's nice? You're in a hurry, so I can give you an answer now. But what's convenient?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u6	It might be good to just answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u7	In our current pension system, low interest rates are putting pressure on yields. This is a problem for pension funds, which threatens to be reduced below the coverage level of 104. The new contract must ensure that the indexing is restored. The contract has advantages but also disadvantages. It will move more along with the returns and thus give a more real picture of how a fund stands. But the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission is still focused on the old system. We, like you, have the goal in mind. Maybe we could hang out in that together. We want people to get indexing again, not to be cut unnecessarily, so things are getting better. This means that we will keep the cabinet to the agreements with employers and employees included in the letter. Solidar between young and old, solidarity between rich and poor, fair compensation, but also a steering committee to ensure that the new system does not suffer from unnecessary problems. This may also mean that there is a need for a new opinion on the interest rate. I hope you agree with me that interest rates are a real problem. The interest rate is low, it's not made up by anyone. That's a problem. But let's give the cabinet and the polder a chance to come up with a good solution. I am convinced that the new contract will at least prevent unnecessary discounts, which are certain under the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u8	Whatever Mr Asscher says, it is true that the reasons why the members of the FNV voted in favour have changed completely. There is no more indexing. There are only discounts left. You should have known that, Mr Asscher, along with your PvdA group, because you voted in favour of an agreement last week which, in fact, received an 8.5 as a figure from the President of VNO-NCW. You're doing very well for the employers. Again, my question: why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u9	It seems as if Mr Mulder has not heard my previous reply. I have just said that I think it is very important that, as far as I am concerned, we work together to ensure that this new pension contract avoids unnecessary discounts and brings more indexing into sight. That's also the agreement the cabinet made with the polder. If you say it all has yet to turn out that it needs to be worked out properly, then I fully agree with you. That is why we are going to have a steering committee, and that is why we have said that we are going to test it. We didn't vote on anything last week, we're going to vote on it when it comes to the Chamber. Those duties lie with the Cabinet. Employers and employees have agreed. 75% of the members of the FNV who voted supported the proposal. They have different reasons for that. The people who voted against also have an interest in getting a good look at it. You can say that it is for the employers, but I would like to make a plea that the workers and the trade union movement have brought in quite a bit in relation to what was in November, when the cabinet and the coalition were bitterly blaming the trade union movement and the opposition. Think about it. At the time, there was no money to slow down the age of AOW. There was no protection for self-employed persons included in the agreement. There was not yet as clear a view of a new contract in which the arrangements with the steering committee were as tight as they are now. The cabinet finally delivered. That's a trade union victory. The employers thought it was okay in November. They were already complaining about the employees back then. If you thought it was so important, you could have given more explicit support to the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u10	A lot of words, but under the line only one thing remains: Dutch people have to work until their 70th and the chance of discounts has increased because of your support. Thank you, Mr. Asscher, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u11	It's always funny, when you give a short answer, it's said it's not the whole answer. If you then go into the question in detail, because it is a very important question, which not only lives with Mr Mulder, but with a lot of people, then it is said: a lot of words. There's two ways to do it. If you claim that it remains uncertain how our pensions are due to low interest rates, that is correct. That is the current situation. In the new situation, that needs to get better. If you claim that everyone has to work until the age of 70, then you are not telling the truth. You know that, too. The great thing about this agreement is that many people have to work shorter than the old one. I really do not need to remind you that the PVV immediately swallowed its most important election promise at the time, the one time you came close to responsibility. You're gonna yawn. I understand it's annoying. Let's keep it positive. Let's be honest about pensions. They are under pressure and that creates a lot of uncertainty. For a lot of people, this agreement puts the AOW in the picture earlier and gives a new contract with which there are indeed uncertainties. I'm gonna go with you and see how that's worked out. I'm going to join you in forcing it to be a proper arrangement. But it's good news for the people where unnecessary discounts don't go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u12	I have an informative question, but first I would like to make a comment. I hear Mr Asscher saying that interest is not invented. Mr Omtzigt knows all about this. Of course, part of that interest is invented. This interest rate is deliberately kept low by ECB policy. It is therefore artificially low and therefore an interest rate that does not reflect exactly what is happening on the market. Then there's my informative question. I read in both the ESC opinion and in the appreciation of the Minister, also in connection with the Dijsselbloem Committee, that the agreement was made that this absolute risk-free interest rate would be maintained for all pension contracts. Has the Labour Party reached agreement on this point too? Does the Labour Party support these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u13	First things first. If Mr Van Kent claims that there are all kinds of actors that have an influence on the level of interest, he is absolutely right. In particular, the Central Bank, that is obvious. This has to do with the policy of the independent Central Bank. Then we cannot say here: the interest rate is 5%. After all, interest is also a representation of what you get when you lend money or what you have to pay to borrow money. Then we here, I think, agree that interest rates are relatively low. If you look at the housing market, you can see it. That's just a fact. Then you can make all kinds of choices: what calculation rate you use, how you divide the risks around it, what assessment you make, how you look at the policies of the Central Bank. That's all true. What is the position of the Labour Party? I will explain it later. On four points, we are very pleased with the concessions and the movement that the cabinet has made; that is why the trade union movement has agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u14	My question was specifically about the calculation rate. It was an informative question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u15	All your questions are always informative, aren't they? Pure and purely informative. I'm trying to answer them that way, too. This means that we are curious about the proposals that will eventually come from the cabinet in consultation with the polder and that we have not committed ourselves to anything. I do believe that you should take into account the interest rate as it is, that is a fact, but I see all the possibility for that steering committee to ask for a new opinion on the calculation rate to be used in due course. The opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission deals with the current system, as stated in the letter. If there is to be a new system, we need to look again. The cabinet and the social partners have agreed on a number of goals and I will stick to them, perhaps with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u16	I think we are quick to agree that this first interest rate is not a definite fact. This is something the European Central Bank is consciously exerting influence on, and that was in the news today, by means of a buy-back policy, which means that interest rates that pension funds have to charge go down. That is not an objective measure in that it says something about the actual interest rates that should apply and certainly nothing about the returns that pension funds will be able to obtain in the distant future, when they will have to count on that interest rate to calculate what returns they will be able to obtain in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u17	Even if people have influenced that interest, that is still interest. We can't just pretend we're not. When we speak purely about facts and information... You may disagree. It also has adverse consequences, but it is a fact that interest rates are now low. We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u18	The fact is that this manipulation of the European Central Bank does indeed mean that interest rates are low. That is a fact, but it is also a fact that this interest rate has been manipulated and that, according to the SP, it should not be a measure to calculate future liabilities of pension funds. The information question I asked you is whether you agreed to the part contained in the ESC opinion, namely that risk-free market interest should always be taken into account. This risk-free market rate does indeed mean the rate of interest that has been manipulated by the European Central Bank. If you hold on to that and if the cabinet insists on it, it will have a major impact on the chances of indexing. Now I hear you say that the steering committee may ask for a different opinion from Mr Dijsselbloem, but that is more about the financial review framework. My question was about this absolute risk-free market rate. Do you agree, and do you agree, that this is the interest rate on which pension funds should ultimately be charged?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u19	I think it's for the question of what money is worth and what interest you receive on your possessions, just as not so important whether or not that is manipulated and whether you agree or not. The problem is, of course, that if people want to receive future pensions, they need a calculation to figure out if there is enough cash left in them. We agree on that because otherwise it is not fair. You can say: there is enough and we will look further in ten years' time; but that is not neat to the people who are putting in now. So you're gonna need a calculation to determine the value of the investments and the money in a fund. I think it would be unwise for us here in the Chamber to say that that is 4%. But if you say "there is still a possibility of discussing how high that interest is, how you deal with that Ultimate Forward Rate and what interest is appropriate to such a new system," I agree with you. So I didn't sign up for anything; I wasn't on that committee, nor in the cabinet, nor did I write that letter. What I support is the transition to a new contract, if and insofar as it meets the objectives set by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u20	I am glad to hear this, because that means that there is also plenty of room to deviate from that absolute risk-free interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr President, it will not surprise you that we will certainly return to that interest rate in our speech. But I saw an opportunity, because I was equally afraid that, because Mr Dijsselbloem was chairman of the committee and he is of the PvdA, it might be one-on-one accepted by the PvdA, by Mr Asscher. But I understand there's room. I even have a motion for a resolution and perhaps Mr Asscher is open to putting aside this opinion from the Dijsselbloem Committee if we have a new contract and move on to a new opinion. Is Mr Asscher prepared to take part in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u22	Then, of course, I'm going to read very carefully what you wrote in your motion. I'm sure we'll be able to talk more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u23	You're open to it. You just had a beautiful, flaming story. So you're saying, if Dijsselbloem's advice doesn't suit us, then we should really take the space to do it with another advice. Are you really going to deliver?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u24	Like Mrs Van Brenn, I received the letter from the cabinet. It states that it is time for a new pension contract. I agree with the cabinet on that. I think that's necessary. Only the objectives of the contract and the uncertainties associated with it are outlined. It is about compensation of the group that would be affected by the change in the premium system. It is also about the aims of such a new contract: to index rather than avoid unnecessary discounts. But then I say: with such a new contract also comes that you are short rather than in the past, because it moves with it. So you have to accept that. And I think that when it comes to interest, we should not end up in some sort of fact-free world. The interest rate is low, whether Mr Van Kent agrees with it or not. We have to take that into account if we want to be honest with future generations of pensioners. But I am not in a position at all, and I do not intend to make any kind of committee my guide now. I'm gonna take care of the cabinet on what it wrote in that letter, and I'm gonna assume that we all do it from the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr President, last but not least, I refer to 'fact-free' and interest rates. Surely it is clear to the PvdA that we are stricter than we are strict, that we count ourselves poor, and that the average European interest rate is 2.1? There are outliers up and down, but there is one country that really takes the lowest calculus rate, an absurdly low calculus rate, and that is the Netherlands. We are more Calvinist than anyone in Europe, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u26	We also have a very different pension system and fortunately we also have a very different AOW scheme and a very different kind of contact. We also have a very different obligation under the current system from that of a future system. So there are differences between those countries. I totally agree that you shouldn't count yourself poor, but I sometimes feel that the temptation is greater to count you rich. That is not wise either, so we must try to strike a balance between that. That is the difficult thing about pensions: finding a balance between old and young and between rich and poor. I welcome the fact that employers and workers have now agreed on this and that the workers have supported it by a large majority, at least those who voted. But like me, they will follow the effect with argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u27	I'm just gonna use the word "fact-free." Who would have to think of or say what that should be, when it comes to calculating interest? Are those MPs or parties, is that the minister or do we have a committee for that? Through you, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Asscher a question. I'm gonna take a look at the theory. From 2007 there was a hugely low calculation rate. What was the practice, in terms of return, for those pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u28	You're gonna tell me. Those returns were very nice, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u29	I'm sure I'll tell you, because those returns were between 6% and 7%. We are counting between 1% and 1.5%, perhaps 2%, but we have seen that this pot of money has grown from 700 billion in the crisis to 1,400 to 1,450 billion. So he doubled in the time of the crisis. So we have a lot of money, but we say to each other: we pretend our reality... So in theory, we're calculating 1% return for the next 40, 50 years, and that goes on forever. That's not sustainable, is it, Mr. Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u30	That's one side of the story. That is also the dangerous thing if you are only discussing it. Sure, it's a really big pot of money that we've all been saving. How is the level of coverage of pension funds calculated? It's not just because of what's in cash. It also looks at how many participants there are, what their life expectancy is and what the pension obligation associated with it is. That's not something we came up with. That's not something we count our poor with either. This is supervised by independent supervisors, including De Nederlandsche Bank. It determines whether a pension fund has sufficient cash to meet current and future liabilities. Then you don't come to say, "God, there's 1,400 billion in cash." You really have to look at each fund, because it is about commitments that have been made towards employees who have turned in part of their wages every week and employers who have turned in their wages every week. That's gotta be right. It is true: there are different numbers that you can use. It's all interesting, but it's fair to tell the people who put it in, not just that side of the story. I don't mean to say you do, but it's part of my reaction. It is also a question of whether a pension fund can still meet future liabilities. I totally agree with you: you shouldn't be too poor, that would be weird, but you shouldn't be too rich. A balance has to be found in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u31	It can't be explained, can it? If you have a small pension and have not been indexed over the past ten years, while costs have increased by 20%, including by raising taxes on groceries, on vegetables, on fruit, it is not fair to explain that we, as sensible people, have counted 1% here, while the last ten years have been between 6.5% and 7%. It is simply invented; we have it invented here and it can also be changed. Something's just not right, right? You can't say: you have to look at it from the other side, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm not saying you have to look at everything from the other side, I'm saying there are two sides that you need to balance. I think we agree on that. You can change it. In fact, it has been discussed for nine years, and now there is finally a proposal to change it. We are all there, and there must be a fair outcome. I think it is a good thing that people want to do that, because I think that the current system does not actually offer huge groups of people what you would like. A lot of older people have been very poor in recent years. Mr. Chairman. As said, it is a subject that affects emotion, because you have those concerns about how to deal with the rising cost of living. That is also the reason why it is such an important good to try to offer everyone a decent old age provision. That's what Drees stood for back then. A few weeks ago, my mom was at our house for dinner. I was just talking about whether or not a pension agreement. She asked about it and I tried to explain to my boys 12, 10 and 8 years old who Drees was. I told you that there are still very old people who will rise up when the name of Drees is mentioned. They know that was the guy who brought that old age provision closer. My mom said, "Why don't you ask me?" I said, why? Then she told us that in 1956 widows and orphans legislation also came into being with the AOW. She grew up without a father, who had died when she was a baby, and suddenly in their family there was a fixed buffer of a few hundred guilders. Suddenly, a kind of security of invaluable value came into being in a family that grew up in poverty during the reconstruction years in Amsterdam. She told us that Drees was also such a saint in our family, someone who meant a great deal. About a year ago I received a letter from a number of men, Karel, Jan, Willem and Eddy from Deventer. They called themselves the Deventer survivors. They were very angry, angry with politics and certainly with the Labour Party. They said: yes, we are actually too rich to die and too poor to live. If the washing machine breaks down, all the reserves will be gone immediately. Started working young. Always on minimum wage. Little built up. Start at 15th in the meat industry, and now see that the finish line is laid further and further away. They felt therefore, also because of the poor purchasing power that has over them in recent years, abandoned by politics. That letter went viral, and a lot of people recognized it. I've been talking to them. I also invited them to come and see us in January.They were in the House of Representatives in order to show them our side of the work: yes, it is quite difficult to change and improve these things. I have always had them in mind when it was about the pension agreement recently. In November, when it collapsed, there were major blames for the irresponsibility of the trade union movement. He was accused of negotiating back and still refusing a "offer you can't refuse." The Prime Minister had convinced the members more, was said. But I felt that the trade union movement was quite right, and I think we should also see now that they have gotten it. If you see what has changed since then, you must speak of a huge success. We as Labour Party considered four things important: the age of AOW to be slower; ensuring that people who really need it can stop working sooner; better protection for people who work flexibly or independently; and a contract in which we have just had the discussion about unnecessary discounts can be avoided. And it's done. Then it was said that it was all too expensive and that it would be for a next cabinet. But now it's, when you're 35, not working until you're 71st, but until you're 69th. Now it is: if you are 63, not 67 and three months, but 66 and seven months. A considerable difference. An early retirement scheme has been introduced three years earlier for those who need it. The employers have promised to pay for it. The RVU fine has been cancelled for those three years, up to €19,000. That's fantastic. There's an 800 million-dollar game. I would add that there is also a lot of uncertainty about it. Are the employers gonna do that? Is it gonna work fast enough? What does it mean for a policeman, a midwife, the people who really need it? We're gonna have to hold the cabinet to it. But it is a huge breakthrough that it has finally come to pass, after all these years: three years earlier, to stop working for people who need it so badly. I am also pleased that it has been agreed that people who are now vulnerable should see that security has become a luxury rather than a pension; think of temporary workers. The self-employed can save more easily for their old age. And there's finally going to be disability insurance for self-employed people. There is an informative question from Mr Van Kent, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u33	No, not this time. I hear Mr Asscher saying a lot here. He says people can stop working three years earlier. I think we should be honest and also say that people cannot just stop working three years earlier. The possibility offered in the agreement ends after five years. So it only lasts for five years. In order to stop working three years earlier, you need to find an employer who wants to pay you three times €19,000. On top of that, you're gonna have to raise your own pension. Mr Asscher just mentioned the example of the person who works in a slaughterhouse. I ask him: how can he promise someone with a flex contract who is now working in a slaughterhouse and who is 62 years old that he or she can actually stop three years earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u34	I think it is a good work agreement that we have a fair discussion. I have seen a video in which Mr Van Kent is performing and in which he claims that through this agreement people later went with AOW. Then that disappeared from the site and there was another text. That is therefore a moving insight; very good. The cabinet has written down that people can stop three years earlier. I think it is important to hold the cabinet to it... maybe we can pull it together................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is no such effect yet, but it is of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u35	I understand that Mr Asscher needs to refer to that video. I'd like to talk to him about that sometime. But my question was about someone in the meat sector with that flex contract that, for example, has been working for 45 years. Competition between employers on labour costs in this sector is dim, as Mr Asscher knows. So of course the employer of that person is not going to say on his own: we are going to put €19,000 three times, so €57,000, on the table for you, so you can stop working earlier. No agreement has been reached on this either, and there are no guarantees. Yet you say here that people can stop working three years earlier. In addition, the exemption from the fine will only apply for the next five years. So someone who's now 51 years old and works in that same butchery, it's no use at all. That is why I intervened for a moment, because I think that we should indeed have this debate fairly and that the promise that people can all stop three years earlier is really the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u36	You certainly shouldn't promise that anyone can quit three years earlier. We'd have had a whole different story. But the promise of the cabinet and the social partners is that people who need it will be able to make use of that early retirement scheme when an appointment is made with the employer. Look, the glass is always half empty or half full. You're presenting it with a little army, I'm presenting it with a little fuller. It is a breakthrough that there will finally be an early retirement scheme. Together, let's make sure that we force the cabinet to shape it so that it can be creative so that as many people as possible who need it can make use of it. You're absolutely right. There are loose ends in this. I share that concern with you. I'm going to hold the cabinet to it, hopefully with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u37	I'd like to take that glove. I believe that we should at least ensure that this scheme is not only available for the next five years or for a period of five years. But if we see this as a settlement and see it as a solution for the future, for example, for someone who is now 51 years old and who works in that slaughterhouse, will we together propose that this arrangement should not last for five years, but for an indefinite period? Is that where I can find the PvdA by my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u38	As far as I'm concerned, yes. The social partners have confidence in their own solution. They say: we have to go to a scheme where everyone can retire after 45 years of work. There's something right about that, too. We have not managed enough in the Netherlands when people have started working, but they are convinced that within those five years they will be able to find a solution that is even more beautiful than the one proposed by the cabinet. If that doesn't work, I agree with you 100%. By that time there will be another cabinet, but we will not say: bad luck, you may have had a hard job, but you cannot be eligible for this arrangement. In my opinion, we should put the goal first: people who need it, who are not honest and unreal to expect them to be able to work up to that higher AOW age, we have to offer something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u40	I think we have a deal. And I think it means that we are now saying that we stop working the RVU, the fine on earlier, for that first €19.000 not abolish for a period of five years, but for an indefinite period, pending other arrangements that may be shaped in the future on the basis of those 45 years. We are going to make a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u41	I'm fine with it. I don't know if we're gonna find a majority for that, but we're gonna see that. I think we can at least put the target first. I saw the VVD nodding enthusiastically. The scheme has been in place for five years, because the social partners have agreed to come up with a better, structural proposal. I hope that works. I know a lot of people who say: it is actually unjust; I start working at the age of 16 and someone who goes to study at the age of 23; can I also retire after 45 years? They are convinced of that. I very much agree with you that it would be very strange to say "lucky" after five years. If there is no better solution then, I think we should continue with this arrangement. I hope, in turn, that you will want to see the full side of that glass of water, even if it is only a quarter full. Because we're talking about an early retirement scheme now, and if it was so bad, you didn't want to keep it for more than five years. Mr. Chairman. Disability insurance for the self-employed is high time, because there is a new social problem. The risks of an accident or a serious illness are widely laid down by people who work as self-employed persons, but do not have the option of insuring themselves against them at all. That's too expensive, they're refused, they don't get the rates that make insurance possible. It is a real political breakthrough that we are going to do something about it. And it is quite clear that this must be done for everyone, in a collective, public way, with affordable rates, so that everyone can make use of them and have security. Just think about the photo digs that always capture us here or the camera people you meet. None of them are insured and they are all concerned about what happens to their families if they break their wrists or get something worse. It's a big break. Mr. Chairman. I discussed the contract in the interrupting debates. I welcome the fact that the social partners and the cabinet have agreed on a new contract, but it is essential that the promises about compensation, about solidarity, about properly arranging that transition are respected. That's also very exciting. I fully agree with those who have interrupted me, because it is a difficult time with low interest rates. This also means that we want the cabinet to come back step by step. They need to talk to that steering group, so that there is a new contract that is good for young and old and that will give people more certainty about their pension in a world that has become more uncertain over the next few decades. Finally, Mr President. I went to see Karel and asked him, "How do you feel about this?" You can keep someone in mind. He said: I'm glad there's an agreement, I'm glad I can stop working a little earlier. The AOW age also applies to him months earlier. But, did he say it's as if he had spoken to Mr. Van Kent about the early retirement scheme, is my employer going to deliver? Aren't I being screwed by Rutte again? I would never say that, but that's what he said. I know what he means. I would like to sincerely congratulate all those who have been involved in this agreement, all those who have played a part in it, and in particular the trade union movement; you will forgive me. But I think it is our job to ensure that it is a success for Karel and for all the other Dutch people for whom that desire for some certainty every day is a great concern. If we do that, then it's a really good deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u42	Thank you. Mr Azarkan is running a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u43	Something about raising the AOW age. Can Mr Asscher explain why he made hysterical policy when he was a minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u44	Yeah, sure. When we had this debate in November, I spoke to Mr Buma about it. We as Labour Party in the crisis period 2012 agreed to the accelerated increase in the AOW age including the link: a year longer life is a year longer work. I must tell you that there are a lot of things we have done that I am very proud of and that I will be proud to defend for years. This does not apply to this measure. This measure asked too many people who couldn't prepare for it, who had started working young and for which you saw the finish line disappear ever further. At that time the VVD thought it brilliant; at that time they didn't think it was hysterical. But that's no excuse. We shouldn't have done that. I also apologized for this in January 2017. I made an alternative plan in April last year with life expectancy working for six months every year. It didn't. I talked about that with people who got hit by it. I said I'm gonna do my best to make it better. I do so in a harsh environment with nine seats, which I am extremely proud of, and a political constellation with a lot of right-wing parties. But you'll see how far we'll get if we all do it together. That is why I went back to at least some people who were angry about that and I agreed with that. I am very happy that you can at least partially correct some of the mistakes in politics. Am I totally happy now? No. We must also be honest about the fact that such an agreement is a weighting of interests. Not everyone can be happy. Even now, whether the retirement age is 67 or 66, that's for a lot of people still working for a long time. Once again, we are living in a time when the level of coverage of the funds is no higher than that, where there is less increase or indexation than you would really like. But in those claws where an agreement has to be found, that is the reality we are living in.I like that I can't make things right for that group at once, but that people get AOW before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u45	The long and intense answer and, I must say, Mr Asscher's level of honesty do me good, namely that there was hysterical policy at the time. In the meantime, the Prime Minister admitted this on 7 June: two of them responsible for hysterical policy. It's a good thing we're going to turn that back. It strikes me that the PvdA has actually had better views since it left the government. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u46	Well, that's good to hear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u47	I've done that myself before. You compliment someone and almost at the end of your sentence a cat comes out. It's okay. It's okay. I memorized the first part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr President, thank you. The trade union movement was not afraid to say no last autumn, but was also not afraid to say yes this spring when there was an agreement. And that's brave, saying no at a time when all the pressure comes from outside and everyone says "you have to agree, it's not gonna be better than this" than following your gut and saying "we're not gonna do this" and at the same time not throwing the door shut and talking. I must also give that compliment to the cabinet. The Minister for Social Affairs has also continued to seek contact. This led to an agreement this spring that was better. That was not only the belief of the negotiators, but also of an overwhelming majority of the members of the trade union, and that is good news. It is therefore a real achievement, that there is now a pension agreement that GroenLinks can also support. It was in the previous debate about the age of AOW. Maybe I should take one more step. I see Dennis Wiersma sitting here. It's from FNV Jong. I have been with CNV Young people and there I was one of the drivers who said: that AOW age should be raised, it is unthinkable that we should not allow it to rise further because that is not possible for our generation to do. I also see now that we have made a mistake there, that we have put it too aggressively and too hard on it and that people cannot do this. The Prime Minister called that increase "hysterical." When we raised the AOW age, we made a promise not only to GroenLinks, the Labour Party or the trade unions, but to everyone here that people in heavy professions could stop working sooner. That is why I am so pleased that agreements have been reached in this agreement to make this possible. Is that what it's all about for everyone? Is there any certainty that this is gonna work out? No, because the real work is just beginning. The possibilities have now been created by the government, but it will have to be further developed by the social partners. The employers have negotiated and have said 'we are going to do this' must deliver for a while. We'll watch. This has to be done as soon as possible. I would like to say to the cabinet: we too are employers, the government is employers. When it comes to the police, to defence, to education or to care, we are there ourselves. In what way will the cabinet ensure that these police officers will actually be able to stop working sooner? It is therefore a good thing that this link, the one-to-one link, is released from the AOW and that there is finally a solution for the heavy professions. Another important commitment for GroenLinks is that it should be for all of us. Too many people in the Netherlands are not assured of a good old age. This applies to people who work in the temporary employment sector, who only start building up after six months of retirement. I hear that the social partners want to work on this and I would like to hear from the Minister how he makes sure that the difference between people with fixed contracts and people in the temporary employment sector is reduced. Now the difference is six versus two months. That difference has to be smaller. How does the Minister view this? It is also aboutzzp'ers, that there are more opportunities for them to build up pension. When we talk about this category, I think of another great risk that they run: that of incapacity for work. I really think it is a huge political victory that agreements are finally being made on this issue, that the social partners are now working out what this kind of disability scheme should look like. I've had a lot of messages fromzzp'ers who are worried. How am I supposed to pay for that insurance? I'd love to now, but I just can't. And if I can afford it, some insurance companies won't even let me in. That is precisely why we have organised this. It now lies with private parties, so that shopping can be done and risk selection can be done. "You're too old. Your business is too risky. You don't get insurance." We can only assure everyone that that is the core of social security if we are all insured. Then it's risky to bear. Then the price for such insurance is low. How does the Minister view this? For us, it is perfectly clear: this must become a collective, publicly implemented scheme, because the great concern of manyzzp'ers is that they will soon be handed over to the 'insurance farmers', as it was said, to the fast-paced boys who want to make money. How do we make sure that doesn't happen? The pension contract is a responsibility of the social partners, but we make the legislation. In the coming years, this may still have to be worked out the most. My group has had the longest doubt as to whether we could agree to this. What exactly do you agree to? In the end, we supported this for very clear reasons, namely because targets have been agreed. I would like to make these objectives clear here. These include collectivity, solidarity, security for all participants, adequate compensation for all generations, and a balanced distribution between employers and employees. We will be paying close attention to this in the coming period. We will look closely at how this works out, also in relation to the calculation rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u50	I understand that consideration, because it's very difficult: what are you saying yes to? There's a lot of insecurities in it. One of these is the redistribution price of 60 to 100 billion, which is mentioned. You just said it needs to be distributed fairly. What do you have in mind with "fair distribution"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u51	You are talking about abolishing the average systematism. That brings with it a price tag. We need to share that fairly so that everyone contributes equally, so that not one generation or another has to pay disproportionately for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u52	There is one generation, that of the 45-plussers 37.5 or so; then it starts already...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u53	About 35 to 55.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u54	Yeah, they're having a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u55	It was also those people in our group, by the way, who asked the most about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u56	Absolutely right. Quite rightly, but there is a generation that has paid a real premium throughout that period: first too much, later too little. Are they going to pay that price once again in your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u57	In my opinion, the following has been agreed. I'm trying to take you as honestly as possible in all the considerations we've made. This is something that will be worked out in the coming years. As I said, I believe that everyone should contribute equally and fairly. I do not know exactly how this distribution will turn out and what that means for pensioners and for the rest. We will see how this will be further developed by the social partners in the near future. If that's not fair, then it's not up to the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u59	I was at the editing. Perhaps the most important thing is that we will continue to ensure that the obligation is not compromised in any way. I do not have the impression that anyone here would like to put that obligation at risk, but we really need to stay on top of that. If there is a risk that something can happen to it, it is a clear no-go to move on. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the pension discounts. Together with 50PLUS, we have tabled a bill to prevent pension discounts. The Minister seems to take over a great deal of this. What exactly is this effect gonna look like? Is it true that pension funds with coverage above 100% will never have to cut back? What happens to the existing recovery periods? Can the Minister comment on the report of the Dijsselbloem Commission? How many additional discounts would this threaten? How many participants does this apply to? And how does the Minister intend to deal with this? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Once again, congratulations to the trade union movement, to employers and also to the cabinet for the way in which they have kept talking to each other. There's an agreement now. This offers all kinds of opportunities for the future. Whether this is really going to work or not depends on all of us here in the room, but also on the social partners. Actually, work is just beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's Monday morning, March 18th. Policemen from all over the country are moving to The Hague today to make it clear that they are entitled to a decent old age. They want to tell the Netherlands that they go to work every day with great love and guard the safety of the Netherlands every day with danger for their own lives. And they want to make it clear that it will be done by 66 years. We all know what happened that day. The day was different. The terrible news came in about the attack on the tram in Utrecht. With these agents, there was no doubt. They stopped their action and went straight to Utrecht or to their city or village, because they were needed there. The policemen and women were standing by when we needed them. Just like all the others: the teachers, the nurses, the paramedics and sisters and so on. But is politics also available when they need us? It is that question that we asked ourselves when we had to assess this pension deal. Can I look that policeman, that construction worker, that port worker and so on, whom I met in all these actions, in the eye and say "It's taken care of. You can stop working on time."? In studying these agreements, the answer was for us: no. That is why we did not support this agreement. Simply because this agreement is not the route to a just pension. I promised to work for a permanent AOW age at 66 years. The signs said "66, old enough!" And with all the conductors on the trains I saw a stop sign with "66." We walked shoulder to shoulder together with all those workers behind the signs in those parades and at those demonstrations. There were also parties represented here in the Chamber. I promised to work for the guarantee that pensions would finally rise to prices, not for what it has become: perhaps a greater chance of rising, but also a greater chance of falling pensions. This is referred to by us as a "casino pension": you don't know what you're up to. And I promised to commit myself to an arrangement whereby we get a guarantee that the port worker, the cop, the street maker and the teacher will be able to stop working with a decent income sooner. And not even in the interrupting debate that came up for a temporary arrangement where there are no hard agreements that employers are actually going to pay and where the people themselves are being pointed out: figure it out for yourself, save your leave days, go to your savings, get your pension forward. We'll just wait and see if that employer gets over it. I can tell you that in many cases this will not be the case, because competition on dimes of labour costs is taking place, especially for heavy professions in, for example, distribution centres or abattoirs. This employer is not going to say on his own: we're going to put 57,000 on the table. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I also note that the agreement is supported by many parties here and, even more importantly, by the trade union. I also hope that this cabinet and the parties here realise that the confidence in this agreement has to do with and is fed by the image that has emerged that there was no alternative. Again and again I heard the sentences "it's this" or "it's nothing" and the Prime Minister called it "there's no plan B." Again and again it was stressed that there are still a lot of loose ends, but that we really have to agree to this agreement, because otherwise we have nothing at all. I hope the Prime Minister and the Minister realize that the trust they have gained is to be lent. What, for example, is going to happen to the bomb that Jeroen Dijsselbloem put under our pensions last week? He adheres to the stifling accounting rules, which make pension funds even poorer now. The Minister immediately took over these accounting rules. My question to the Minister is how to bring this into line with the ruling of the trade union that these Dijsselbloem accounting rules are no longer important now that this pension agreement has been concluded. But also take the regulation for the heavy-duty professions. Anyone who wants to can stop working three years earlier was the promise. We just heard them coming by, too. But in the agreement, I don't see much of that promise. That $19,000 hasn't been agreed. I just heard Mr Klaver ask the right question whether it is settled for the people in the heavy professions who employ the government itself. I am happy to ask that question with Mr Klaver. Is it settled for all those people who are directly employed by the government that they can get the €19,000 per year if they cannot continue working? I also have a question about the people who are indirectly employed by the government, for example in health care and where applicable in education. Is that what it's done for? In addition, a question about the people who work on behalf of the government. Is the government prepared to look at the procurement rules in order to ensure that, for example, if we have a road set up or maintained, we ask the party that is going to do so to enable an early retirement scheme for employees? I also realize that this five-year period is far too short. We are working on a motion to work with the PvdA and I hope that we will all have a clear long-term perspective. Otherwise, it's very difficult to work with tenders if you want to make agreements like this. Otherwise, it is very difficult to reach a long-term agreement with an employer. Then you will only get an occasional solution where the perspective on this 45-year-old scheme is still very uncertain and will probably remain uncertain for a long time. After all, it has been looked at more often and it turns out to be very complicated. If you want to do so, and my party certainly sees something in that direction of thought...... will take a lot of time and we need to look carefully into whether the work history can be found. Then there is the question: who is going to pay the bill of abolishing the other way of contribution, the other way of building up the pension, the average system? It's been mentioned before. Does the Minister recognise that today's pensioners have nothing to do with this? They have paid the contribution they had to pay throughout their lives and, as pensioners, they have neither part nor part of the way in which workers build up their pensions at that time. Does the Minister also recognise that this means that pensioners will not have to contribute to abolishing this average system, which is 60 billion to 100 billion, because that would be unreasonable and unjust? I'd like a firm commitment for all those pensioners. Mr. Chairman. I'm not in politics to make deterioration a little less bad. I am in politics to force progress, to show people that there is an alternative, that there is a need for a plan B. That is precisely why it is so harsh that this agreement has not been approved because it is so good. No, it has been approved because something is better than nothing, because this cabinet has made people believe that this is really the maximum achievable. I have to admit, it's another victory for Mark Rutte and the employers. And that's handsome. It's nice to make other parties complicit in policies they say they don't want to. Nice to push through his ideological agenda again with the support of his ideological opposites. But in the end, that's not the way to recovery. It is not the way to a just pension system. That is why we will continue our efforts to reduce the age of AOW, to ensure that people with heavy professions can stop working on time. We will continue to fight until the pension discounts are off the table, so that pensions get back on top of the prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u62	I just mentioned the following words from Mr Van Kent: we are not in politics to make deteriorations a little less bad, we are fighting for improvements. The track record of the SP is extremely clear. Whatever happens, the SP votes against at the end of the day. A quota law for people with disabilities from Mrs. Klijnsma? The SP votes against. Now with a big difference in the future retirement age of people? The SP votes against. They are fine words, but isn't the practice that you stand angry on the side all the time and thus achieve nothing for the people you stand up for? I don't doubt your conviction, but with that screaming, you're not gonna get anything done, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u63	I really need to respond to this. First of all, you have allowed your Minister to sideline us. We sat at the table until the last minute. You know that, too. Then we were called in the morning with the message: you agree to a further increase in the AOW age or you do not need to come to a conversation. So we didn't stand on the sidelines. We were sidelined by your Minister at the very last moment, with your permission. That's first of all. Secondly, look at how my party votes in this Parliament. Then you will see that we vote for the vast majority of proposals coming from this government, but that we are critical and that we are opposed when we see that agreements are being made which, for example, will not help that 51-year-old construction worker. And those are the arrangements that are now under way. That 51-year-old construction worker has to go on until he's 68. He cannot avail himself of the exemption from that early retirement fine. That 800 million-dollar pot will be empty by then. I want to be able to look this man or woman right in the eye and say: it is settled for you. With this agreement, that is not the case. You'll take care of it, I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u64	It's always like that. I have been here for about seven years now, and then we are discussing pensions, people with disabilities, the approach to payroll and the approach to flex contracts. Big words every time, but every time you say no. And this time there is something special, because the trade union movement says, by a large majority, yes to this agreement. That's what you should think. You've said no all the time. You have fired in that campaign and yet 80% of the members of the CNV and three quarters of the members of the FNV say: we are pleased with that improvement. So you should stop tweeting that the AOW age goes up through this chord and just make sure that you become part of the solution instead of being a spectator along the side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u65	All crazy on a stick now. Again, we have fought shoulder to shoulder for the last two years for those 66 years, together with that trade union movement and together with the Labour Party, GroenLinks and 50PLUS, who also occasionally was there. We have also fought for indexing for every generation. We have fought for a pension for everyone, including forzzp'ers. That was our commitment. What we see is what is delivered by this cabinet, by your minister. We see, if we look at these three points, that the AOW age is not frozen at 66, that it remains for a short time at 66 years and 4 months and then continues to rise less quickly. That's why the construction worker has to go from 51 to 68, which he's never gonna make. Why don't you go into that? Two: indexing for each generation. That risk-free interest is simply taken over by this cabinet. Dijsselbloem's advice is also taken over by this cabinet, which means that the metal funds will most likely have to be cut and that they will not index pensions there after ten years, but will reduce them again even after previous discounts. Third, retirement for everyone. Nothing's been arranged for thezzp'ers. Yeah, access to pension funds. Ammehula! They must also pay the employer's share of that contribution. That means that such a person will have to pay about three times to the pension fund what you and I see on our pay slip what goes to the pension fund. Let's start by organizing these minimum rates. Then let's get that organized for thosezzp'ers. Retirement for everyone. Wait for the temp? The waiting period of six months remains. In other words, you are enthusiastic about what your Minister put as a ceiling on that negotiating table, but I am not enthusiastic about that. You'll understand. As far as I am concerned, we must ensure that we can indeed look at that 51-year-old construction worker and say that we have arranged it for you. I dare you to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u66	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u67	That is why we are finally going to invest in this agreement to ensure that you can also get a healthy pension. The AOW age is rising less. We will ensure that there is a contract that is more personal, but also more likely to be indexed. And the risk of discounts is not gone by January 1st, but significantly reduced. It's true, we're all getting older, the retirement age isn't frozen forever. That's easy to say, but priceless. It's true, we continue to charge risk-free interest, thankfully, but otherwise we'll transfer all the risks to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u68	You agreed to that among yourselves, that risk-free interest rate? It's pretty important that I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u69	This is stated in the opinion of the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u70	But I just heard that was seen differently. Is that a hard date?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u71	I did...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u72	Then indexing is farther away than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u74	I thought I had the floor, Mr. Chairman. We have made good agreements on this rate of calculation, which will ensure that there will still be enough money left for pensions in the future. What I see now is a pattern: where we are ultimately making real improvements through cooperation, broad in the polder, including the ESC and Mariëtte Hamer and the trade union movement and the employers and the Labour Party and GroenLinks and the coalition, where the flowers are only the anger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u75	We would have liked to have reached an agreement with you and all the others, of course. We have not for nothing been one and a half years or more involved in everything that happened there. It was my sincere intention that we should arrive at an outcome that would come close to the demands we had together. I regret to note that this has been blocked by your Minister and has not been made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u76	I would just like to ask Mr Van Kent whether he agrees with me that the 51-year-old construction worker does not have to work until 68 because of this agreement, but rather gets AOW. I just looked in the table. I really don't know how you're gonna work at 51 until you're 68. This is an improvement. Let's talk about the improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u77	Let's see. According to my calculations, a 60-year-old can stop three months early and a 51-year-old has to work until he's 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u78	I'm glad you didn't. Without the agreement, the 48-year-old will reach the 68-year-old border. In that table you can see exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u79	It depends on what happens to the age of 67. That was unclear for me in the Ministry's table. The age of 67 remains there for a period of time, because life expectancy has yet to be announced. It's announced five years in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u80	Let's ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u81	According to the table of life expectancy calculated, the age in that period does not remain 67 years, but increases to 68 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u82	The point I wanted to make is this. I respect your view that the improvements are too small. An obvious improvement is in any case that the AOW age is lower than without the agreement. I think we can agree on that. In the example of the 51-year-old just now, I have the impression that you're making that 51-year-old a little bit more worried than necessary. But we'll ask the Minister. As far as long working is concerned, it remains important that, if necessary, you can get out sooner. We're gonna work on that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u83	That's a discussion about numbers. I hope that we will be able to clarify this later. We have also asked written questions about this under the law that we are going to discuss tonight. It's about the AOW age. I shall then go into that further and give our views on it. We have asked this question. It is very strange that the AOW age hangs on 67 for a number of years, while in that period life expectancy increases and that link should be cut. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will be able to clarify this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After nearly ten years of talking, there is finally the long-awaited reform of the pension system. It started in 2010 with the Goldswaard Commission, which made recommendations for an improved strong pension system. I should also like to mention Mr Goudswaard in this debate. I think he deserves that. It was then MP Wouter Koolmees who asked the Central Planning Bureau to investigate the abolition of the average premium system. Mr. Chairman. Now there is an agreement that leads to pensions that become better, fairer and more personal. There are many important elements in this pension system. We're right to talk a lot about the AOW. Let us also pay attention to pensions, because there have been breakthroughs in supplementary pensions. We're going to abolish the average premium system. That's a horrible word, especially interesting for scribblers. In practice, it is not solidarity and it is not fair what is happening. Young workers actually pay too much premium and should actually get much more pension for their deposited euros, because these euros can last much longer. The practice is that people who make careers are currently subsidised by people who do not. That is reverse, perverse solidarity and therefore not solidarity. If you decide to become self-employed halfway through your career, you'll lose tens of percent of your retirement. This, of course, does not fit into a changing labour market at all. Mr. Chairman. That abolition is, in my view, a major gain. And yes, that is an extremely complicated and complex process. You have to make sure that the effects are bearable for all generations. This is going to be a lot of work, but I am confident that the steering committee will succeed, as I am confident that the steering committee will be able to draw up very balanced proposals for the two new pension contracts that are now in place. Because of the large amount of computational work and analysis required, I assume that scientists, supervisors and performers will also be very closely involved. Maybe the Minister can say something about that already. Mr. Chairman. The second major reform is that of what you put in place as a pension premium is much more clear what that will bring for yourself in pension building. Too often, workers feel that they pay too much for a pension that is uncertain, while pensioners are dissatisfied because good promises from the past are not being fulfilled. Soon pension funds will be able to choose between two types of contracts: one with full personal pension assets and one where you can spread profit and loss over ten years, which also means that about 90% of your investment is directly linked to your pension structure. That is much clearer, much more transparent, and leads to less grumpy and also better pensions. Mr. Chairman. The third reform, which also leads to better pensions, is to stop the current expensive false security that requires buffers to be built up. As a result, pension funds can index faster. And yes, it makes pensions more mobile and they can also go down a little faster. That is why I think it is particularly important that it has been chosen to continue to count on this risk-free calculation rate, the UFR. Well, then the odds of it not being so bad are greater than it is. That is very important when the contract becomes more mobile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u86	I was just chewing on what Mr Van Weyenberg put forward a bit earlier, namely that it all gets fairer and that there is still a rather difficult problem to eat: the average systematic indeed. Mr Van Kent has already pointed that out. I have also had a discussion on this with Mr Klaver. My question also to you is: if we want to be honest, how do you sell it to the pensioners who have paid a real premium throughout their lives? Indeed, in the beginning too much and in the end too little, but across the board they have just paid contributions. They've been out of index for ten years now. Are they going to be billed again for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u87	Firstly, agreements have been reached with a number of parties: the social partners and the trade union movement. In the end, I will check whether the results are balanced between generations. Then I don't light one thing out, but then I look at the total. You are talking about how everyone contributes to the compensation around the average premium, and certainly in the early years the profits for young people will also be used to compensate a group that would otherwise suffer. In addition, you could also look at buffers. At the same time, I see an increase in the likelihood of indexing. In the end, I will assess all the proposals as to whether they are balanced between all generations. I'll do that for the whole package. I'm not gonna cut any pieces there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u88	I would like to make one thing clear from Mr Van Weyenberg. If he says that it can also be removed from the buffer, I think that at the moment it is very difficult for a lot of pensions. It's gonna hit the pensioners again, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u89	This agreement has a greater chance of indexing. We will all have to ensure that compensation for the average premium is done fairly. I will make a total assessment of that and see if this is so for all generations that I can explain to them that this is a good deal for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about risk-free interest rates. A fourth improvement, as far as my group is concerned, is the fact that there will be more choice. The pension can be more in line with personal preferences. After all, people are different. The retirement ambition of someone who still has to pay the rent after retirement is different from the retirement ambition of someone who has a paid-up home. At the moment, it is still too much of a unitary sausage. I think it's an agreement that when you retire, you can take up 10% of your pension assets in one go, a step forward. For people who may not have a big piggy bank but want to get rid of a last piece of mortgage, or for people who want to travel with their husband or wife, depending on who the pension participant is, while they are still fit and healthy, we offer those opportunities. I think that's wise. Especially for people with less life expectancy, this is a real gain. That makes it fairer. In addition, the agreement will also consider whether other options can be added, for example the possibility of using the money for a number of years to pay a little less premium, but to pay off the mortgage. I would like to hear from the cabinet what the planning is for the development of this research. I see Mrs Van Brenk again; always a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u92	Yeah, I can see that too. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u93	That last remark about taking that amount all of a sudden, especially if you were sick and your perspective didn't go any further, I totally understand. But does Mr Van Weyenberg also see the effect of the money being withdrawn? Are we going to inform people about that very well? Because it will have a definite effect on the care allowance or the rent allowance. I assume that the necessary taxes will also be levied and this will not be tax-free. How does Mr Van Weyenberg see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u94	I fully agree with Mrs Van Brenn. If you decide to do this and bring that 10% forward, it will have an impact on the fact that you will get less supplementary pension in the rest of your pension period. Free money doesn't exist in pensions. So we need to be very clear about that. I think pension funds have an important role to play in explaining the consequences. And if you pay off your mortgage with it, that obviously has a different effect than if you make a few trips with it. I fully agree that we need to help people, and I also think that pension funds are very capable of doing so. People need to understand what something means to them, because you can only spend a euro once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u95	It does play at the beginning, if you record it, but also in that later period, when the pension money is paid. You'll get less. So it could also be that for the Netherlands, for example, this means that we need to give people more bonuses, because they have less income because they have already taken them out of the pot before. Is that also something that plays into the recitals at D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u96	That depends. For example, that doesn't play out when you use it to pay off your mortgage or when you spend the money on a trip. If you put it on a savings bank notebook, that could be true when it comes to assets. But we have to make people very clear what it means. The sum of its effect are neatly incorporated into the chord. My main point is that we would very much like to inform the people, whom I would like to give this freedom of choice to D66, about what it means to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the self-employed. We've made agreements about their retirement. There will be no retirement obligation, and my group will be pleased to do so. We were not in favour of that. In fact, 100 million will be added to support additional pension building for the self-employed. And yes, there is also an agreement in the agreement on an insurance obligation against incapacity for work for self-employed persons. And yes, that's not from my party's election program. That's how it goes when you make appointments, I tell Mr. Van Kent: it's always a little giving and taking. And yet I think the deal can be defended. I think he can be defended because I am concerned about the large group of self-employed people who cannot be insured at all. Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher mentioned the example of people who are now excluded. And yes, there are a number of framework conditions which, as far as my group is concerned, are very important for the implementation. It has to be affordable, of course. My group is actually expecting this to be a collective, public insurance policy, not one with all these fine prints where you pay five times more premiums or are not entitled to anything at all, because your left arm was excluded from insurance because you once suffered from it. We don't want that kind of insurance. In fact, that is why some parties want to change this. For me, it still fits in with the idea that for people who do not have employee insurance, we are actually talking about all those other workers at a time when all forms of work are becoming more diffused to see whether we can better connect the system. The Borstlap Committee will soon issue an interim opinion. The first report will even come tomorrow, I believe. But I'm not just looking at self-employed people. I look at all workers who are not covered by employee insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u99	A little sharp, though. Do I hear D66's colleague say that he only supports self-employed insurance if it is introduced collectively with an acceptance obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u100	In fact, the agreement states that this insurance must receive an affordable premium. And it also says that it is being looked at whether opt-outs are possible. I think that's important, too. We also said that self-employed organisations should be involved. That is crucial for my group. But now, if you ask me what I am thinking of, I say something collective. Of the parties supporting this, no one thought of insurance with grounds for exclusion, premium differentiation and the adversarial selection that Mr Klaver mentioned. So we're not gonna do that. I don't think anyone wants that either. But because of course we have asked whether the ESC and the self-employed organisations want to develop it, there is not yet a single variant. That leads to a great deal of confusion. I get that people sometimes think, "Oh, what's coming to me?" I think it is important to point out here that, as far as my group is concerned, that is not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u101	That was a lot of information for a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u102	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u103	I did not ask the D66 colleague what he was thinking, but whether the introduction and development of self-employed insurance is acceptable to him only if it is carried out collectively and with an acceptance obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u104	As far as the acceptance obligation is concerned, yes. For the execution I await the advice. But if you ask me now, I'll bet on collective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the AOW. It's been discussed a lot. My group has always attached great importance to the need for the AOW age to rise to life expectancy. That remains with this agreement. At the same time, it is fast, especially for those for whom little investment has been made to ensure that they can achieve that pension properly, by adapting the work or investing in training. We also see that many people, especially because of those gears, are difficult to reach that age. The fact that more time is now being taken to go to 67 is an important profit for the trade union movement. I'll just compliment him on that, too. They fought hard for that. It is part of the agreement that I can understand very well. It is crucial for my group that we combine this with a great deal of extra commitment to sustainable employability. Fortunately, this is also the case for the parties in the ESC. In five or ten years' time, we do not want to have groups of people for whom the work has been too heavy for too long and for whom too little investment has been made in training. That is precisely why I am so pleased with all these agreements on sustainable employability. I hope there too, because the work is indeed beginning to make sure that they are not dead letters, that they do not become funny again, but that they really become lifelong learning and that we also make sure that that work is adapted. When linking the AOW age to life expectancy, the choice was to continue linking it. Anyone who wants that different has a huge bill. So I think you have to be honest with me that you can't do a lot of things with that 12 billion. But that link is no longer the case that you have to work a year longer if you live a year longer, I think it's very good. That also fits with the Buma c.s. motion. I think that this is a very balanced result. That stays my aftertaste. Working together makes things happen. Political and polder, coalition and opposition, employers and trade unions, together we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u107	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The polder has succeeded in reaching an agreement. That's good news. Hopefully we will go back to a time when parties are working together instead of polarizing. The Labour Party and GroenLinks have shown that they want to work together to achieve a more modern pension. That is important, because the polder owns the pension funds. It is about the conditions of the pension and can come up with a fair and balanced proposal. It is up to the politicians to consider this proposal very carefully and positively. I'm just saying it right now, because anyone who thinks pension funds are better off in public hands can be given a lecture on how pensions are raised, then nationalized and then reduced. That's what happens in that order. The first part of the agreement is already in the Chamber. There is a less rapid increase in AOW age over the next five years. I still have to say that we would like to deal with this as soon as possible. That's why I've already brought my spokesperson AOW. If we finish this in time, we'll be done by midnight, because I think we're going to do that tonight. The slower link between the AOW and life expectancy is a very good effect of last autumn's Buma motion when the pension consultation collapsed. That is exactly what was asked for. With a year's increase in life expectancy, there is an increase in the AOW age, but not by one year. That is now being worked out by nine months. It's eight months. Sorry, I'm still with the last one. The introduction of disability insurance for self-employed workers is a positive thing as a CDA. We would like to point out that we would like to see a worker insurance scheme which is also a solution for people who are partly employed, partly self-employed. Then we come to the new pension contract or, rather, the two contracts that will be worked out in the steering committee. In all honesty, we must say that there is also a need for some work to be done here. The CDA Group would like to see some calculations. How would these two contracts have worked in a normal investment mix over the past 40 years? That could give a good picture. Does the Minister want to work this out and show it to the Chamber? Renewal is necessary, because at the moment nobody is actually taking the risk. This risk is more explicit in the new contracts with the participant. De facto, by the way, it is already with that participant. It is also good that the average build-up is abolished for people who, during their career, switch between, for example,zzp-ship and employeeship. The impact of this pension deal is crucial. The total pension assets of EUR 1,400 billion are converted into other contracts. This is a challenge in terms of governance, in terms of ICT and in terms of communication that its peer has not known in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u109	I hear Mr Omtzigt say that the way your pension is built up is being adapted and that that is a good thing. I also know Mr Omtzig as someone who is going to look very critically at how this is going to be worked out, but I can imagine that we can agree that this bill of between 60 billion and 100 billion should not be placed on people who are already retired and who are not part of the way pensions are built up in the future. Do you agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u110	I know Mr Van Kent as someone who thinks that there should never be an account placed anywhere, anywhere, anywhere. If I'm going to say here in advance that everyone individually shouldn't advance or go backwards because of the conversion, then I know one thing: then you have to keep the old pension contract. So I'm very careful here to say something. Moreover, I would like to point out that in all the test calculations I have seen, the current generation of pensioners is on average positive; perhaps the government can confirm this. I am rather concerned about the present generation of 40s and 50s, to which I myself belong, so everyone but myself, shall we say, rather than the generation of pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u111	I do think that we should distinguish between the period in which people work and the period in which they pay contributions, which is adjusted, and the period in which people are retired. I understand that Mr Omtzigt does not want to impose all kinds of conditions right now, but I can imagine that the CDA wants to say to those pensioners: yes, if those buffers of pension funds are to be addressed, that should not be the part brought together by the pensioners in the past; those who work at that time and pay contributions should start organizing this together. Otherwise you would get the situation that the buffers that are filled partly by pensioners, are used to compensate you and your peers, while that is the money of pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u112	The buffers are not allocated to a certain generation. I would like to be very careful with this. I would also like to mention the sums that have been made. They show in average terms that it is not really for every fund that pensioners get a little better off in this deal than the workers. If you want to put a few more conditions on top of that, then... How am I supposed to be careful in this? This pension deal is not made for the current group of 60- to 65-year-olds, which would seem to be the case if you look at the AOW deal. This pension deal wasn't made for the current 75-year-olds, which I'm about to say about. This pension deal has been made to keep the system stable for the next 50 years. I hope it can be done with it. And that is why I also say that we should be careful about saying: that generation this and that generation that. 'Cause next thing you know, we're back in the old contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u113	Finally, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u114	The way you build up your pension is something that works for workers, not for pensioners. I am disappointed that the CDA does not want to say clearly here that money which has been co-financed by pensioners should not be used to finance this cabinet's desire, namely that other way of building up pensions, but that it should be used to bring indexing closer to pensioners. I'm disappointed that the CDA doesn't want to say that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u115	The contracts proposed here will allow for some more indexing and, in all honesty, as Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out, in some cases also allow for some more discounts. As a result, more indexing is expected for the current generation of older people. What I am trying to say here is that if this pension contract involves everyone in a certain age group, we will not be entering into a new pension contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr. Chairman. A lot is still unknown. Will the contracts of 75-year-olds be converted into the new pension contract? And how does individual objection work? It's in the Pension Act now. Can you object individually to conversion to the new contract? That is why in September we would like to receive a kind of roadmap for the next two or three years, which contains the main questions and also when certain buttons are cut through. For now, I would like to make a number of comments. Large and small obligations are crucial to our pension system. So no matter how the pension contracts are further worked out, the European legal sustainability of the system is essential. Can the Minister guarantee that something will only change if this sustainability has been confirmed by the European Commission, and for each of the two contracts? When you retire, you want to know what you're up to. Pension benefits should never become too volatile. That's also in the terms and conditions. How will the Minister monitor this further? A good pension has good survivor's and disability coverage. Because these are risks that people can't carry themselves. A survivor's pension isn't something you just stick to. That needs to be considered from the start, because if you do not have a survivor's pension over the pension years that have already been built up, you have an entire generation that does not have a sufficient survivor's pension. How is the opinion that is still being drawn up properly taken into account in the new system? We have just seen at the ABP that it is so complicated that it is already not being properly implemented. With a new pension contract coming up with new rules, the time has come to establish new rules to protect members. I am referring in particular to the maximum costs that pension administrators are allowed to charge. Especially with the individual contract we see a considerable risk here. This is what we see when we look at, for example, the past few years in Australia. That is where a reform took place ten years ago and the cost has quadrupled. We think this can be tackled if you're on top of it from the beginning. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to do a study to see how the costs can be controlled in order to avoid Australian situations. Pension rates are one third lower than those of the pension rate, which is 20% to 30% of the pension rate due to excessive costs. In addition, we would like to ask whether you can set conditions or limits and what other countries have done in the context of reforms. Mr. Chairman. We think it is important, I say this to Mr Van Kent and Mrs Van Brenk, that the elderly should also be involved in the work. I think they deserve an explicit place, especially at the time we are going to talk about the transposition of the 75-year-old contracts I was just talking about. The fact that they have not signed this is still true, but in these matters they simply have an essential interest and should be an interlocutor. How are we gonna bail that out? I have two final comments to make. The first is about the calculation rate. Can the government explain whether or not the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission applies to the new system? I would like a clear answer to that. The second is about the European Central Bank. It has kept interest rates at 0% for 10 years and is now threatening to reduce them further. I would add that every capital-covered system will be in trouble. Does the government share that view? How are we going to deal with this if Draghi and his successor live up to the threat and we have a negative interest rate for years to come? To those of you who say that we should do a high rate of calculation ourselves, I would say that the problem is that it is not a fictitious interest rate, but the actual interest rate on the capital market. But it is being pushed down by the ECB. It puts our system, old or new, at risk. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u119	Finally! The pension agreement! The Minister must have thought that when there was at last an agreement in principle on the table. After years of negotiation and poldering, there is an agreement. Mr President, I see a satisfied Minister. That is right, because there are very nice and good things in the agreement. Those are things that make many really improve. There are also points that remove a lot of uncertainty among a lot of people. But it is also right, because this minister has had most cups of coffee with politicians from the Chamber in order to reach this agreement. That's a compliment, because he's also gonna keep coming when you don't need numbers anymore. I would like to express that appreciation publicly here. Even when the SGP was not needed numerically, he still came by to get this agreement to be worn as widely as possible. Mr. Chairman. I don't want to spoil the joy of celebrating, but of course a little nuance is in order. Shortly after the agreement was published, the interest rate was reduced. That has just been appointed. Many have the fear that this will lead to a further reduction in pensions next year. We must also conclude that some of the members of the trade unions voted against the agreement. I'm asking the Minister to also have an eye for that group of people. I'm sure he will. Mr. Chairman. The agreement in principle contains many separate issues. We will be discussing this separately in the coming months. We are even talking about some parts in the very short term. For the moment, I would like to highlight three issues which are very relevant to us at the moment: the regulation for the heavy-duty professions, the possible future compulsory disability insurance for selfemployed persons and, of course, the selfemployed. I guess you didn't expect anything different from me. Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, we had an AO on pension issues. At that time it was also about the heavy professions and the low-income group that often carries out these heavy professions. I asked the Minister at the time if he saw any possibility of imposing a much lower RVU levy on this group up to a certain amount. I'm really served at my beck and call, because it's actually even better. There will be no lower RVU tax for this group, but even a full exemption from the RVU tax up to a payment amount of about €19,000. As a SGP, we are very pleased that this point has also been included in the agreement. This offers real opportunities for heavy-duty professions to quit work earlier. But I see that it has also been argued by others that the cabinet wants to implement this scheme for a period of five years from 2021. My question to the Minister is: are we back to square one after five years? Is it really the Minister's intention to stop this arrangement after five years, or is there any prospect of it after that? I'd really like to have a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The second point is the mandatory aov forzzp'ers. Let me point out that the group ofzzp'ers is extremely diverse. There is a group that has low income and currently has no aov insurance. In the case of incapacity for work, this can lead to a fall in income, with all the consequences. But there is also a large group who, when they become disabled, experience much less problems. For example, they have built up own funds in case of failure, or they participate in a bread fund. For example, there may be more opportunities for thezzp'er to cover for incapacity for work. The measure now mentioned in the agreement almost completely ignores the options I have just identified. Allzzp'ers, and therefore all types ofzzp'ers, have to shut down an aov. But luckily, I do read one way out. This is in fact the case of 'better suited arrangements', as is the case in the agricultural sector. My question is: can the Minister explain what these more appropriate arrangements really mean? Is such a bread fund a better arrangement? Is sufficient equity to compensate for this disability a better arrangement? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is a strong supporter of free entrepreneurship, including the free entrepreneurship ofzzp'ers. This entrepreneurship appears to be severely constrained by the measure contained in the agreement. I call on the Minister to pay particular attention to this in his work. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to one group, namely those who have a mind. They're also amongzzp'ers. My question is whether the Minister will ensure that there is an exemption from insurance obligations for this group. I would like him to go into that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the single-earners. I have not been able to get it out of the agreement myself, and I do not think it is so, but both in the Reformatorisch Dagblad and in some people who are approaching us there was at least the feeling that it might be a lot less for the group of earners than it is today. I would like the Minister to take that up as well. If that is not possible today, as I can imagine, it can of course be done at a later date. I come to a conclusion, Mr President. As we have concluded, many points in the agreement are still unclear. They will be developed in the coming period. However, I would like to emphasise that as a SGP we welcome the agreement that is now in place and that removes a great deal of uncertainty from the people. We look forward to a further elaboration of all the plans in the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u120	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD. That is by way of derogation from the list of speakers, but it is with Mr Edgar Mulder's agreement. Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u121	Thanks to Mr Mulder. Mr. Chairman. There's an agreement, and the VVD thinks it's a solid agreement. It is a pension agreement with measures that are not typically liberal, not typically Christian-democratic or typically socialist, but simply a good pension agreement that wise people have invented together; fair, inclusive and sensible. These are measures that we all need now to be able to move forward for decades. It's a pension agreement that works for ordinary people who pay taxes and contributions, work hard for their money or have worked hard for their money, and who just want their pension to be properly arranged. The members' consultation of the unions shows that the majority of Dutch people see the importance of a good compromise. The money that is paid for your pension will also end up in your own pension fund, so you can see what's reserved for you and how that amount grows over the years, return on return; not that silly average premium. The abolition of mandatory buffers will enable us to use them for indexation and compensation. There is also the amount of 10% that you can suddenly withdraw to pay off your house, for a renovation or just to make that dream trip. Finally, there is the possibility forzzp'ers to participate voluntarily in the pension fund in their sector. I congratulate everyone who has stuck their necks out in the last month to make this agreement possible. This includes the trade unions, who have not made it easy for us to meet a number of tough demands. Mr. Chairman. This doesn't mean we're done. We still have concerns. This agreement is not a miracle cure. It does not look like interest rates are going to rise in the short term, and this means that more and more money needs to be invested to ensure a good pension. Some funds may need to be cut short. That affects 2 million people. How does the Minister see the future of these funds? And then, of course, we hear some worrying stories from everyone under 50, 55 years old, the group that has to be compensated for the abolition of the average premium. That's a huge puzzle for the steering committee, which has to look at how to put that compensation together per fund. And in the case of occupational pension funds with a CDC scheme, that seems even more complicated to me. I would ask the Minister once again to repeat what the amount is and what the funds they can use for this, if only because a lot of people are worried about it. And while we're at it, when does the steering committee start and who is in it? How do we stay informed as a room? We also have concerns about the package of measures that we agreed on in addition to this pension agreement and which, moreover, the VVD has supported. Sooner or later, that AOW age was gonna struggle with that one-on-one coupling, so we understand this step. But the thinking must not stop in the coming years. The VVD would like to explore how we can put more freedom of choice in that AOW, by letting people choose their AOW age in exchange for higher or lower benefits. Then there are the heavy-duty professions. For years, too, we have felt that something needs to be done. But the whole polder is struggling with the question of how to do that. How will we achieve effective measures this time? A relaxation of the RVU regime is explicitly temporary in nature, but how do we prevent us from effectively getting a new VTE again? The Council of State is already critical. How do we ensure that the 800 million we have now really leads to measurable sustainable employability? How will the Minister monitor this process and what conditions will he set? The VVD stands behind that disability insurance forzzp's, but the design is very close. Anyone who stands on the dock every day and is a breadwinner must of course be able to secure himself well, at a reasonable, affordable premium. That target is clear. And so we don't want to end up in a system with the same premiums as now but in an official jacket. That's one. Two is that we need customization. If you still work a little bit for fun, but don't need the money at all, or if you've already arranged something yourself in case of disability or for some other reason don't need an aov, you should be able to ignore that insurance. We need to solve the problem and not create a new problem. This means that the chosen solution must in any case be supported by thezzp organisations. It is well in the agreement, but I would like the Minister's confirmation on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u122	Let's just get back to the previous point. The last comment, about the organisations ofzzp, will make a lot more complicated in the coming period, but let me put that aside. I have a question about the heavy professions. VNO-NCW asked at any time whether we could not do what is happening in Austria in the Netherlands. Part of this is that you would no longer have to pay an AOW premium during an early retirement scheme. Did the VVD take note of that? What does the VVD think? Would the VVD like to add it to the very limited way in which we now give people the chance to stop working earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u123	I think we should include these ideas in the elaboration. It is not with me, because as you know everything is split at the VVD. In the debate below, you will have the opportunity to discuss this with Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u124	Yeah, it's gonna be night work, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u125	I can see a problem of coverage in advance when we say that we are going to delete the AOW premium. So if Mr. Van Kent provides cover for that, any conversation will be easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u126	You know us as a party that has a lot of ideas about it. Whether we agree on this is indeed a second. In my view, the problem of coverage lies mainly with those who wish to make use of the early retirement scheme. Suppose you found that employer who wants to pay you that €19,000 and you have enough supplementary pension that you can bring forward to supplement that €19,000 so that you can live properly. These are two reasonably exceptional situations, in my opinion, at least for many people in a heavy occupation with low incomes. During that period you will also have to pay AOW premium, so you will have to bring the pension forward much more to get the amount you would really like to get as a retired person. In my view, that is where the problem of cover lies, namely those who are unable to stop working earlier as a result. I look forward to the debate we will probably have tonight with Mr Wiersma on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u127	Yeah, that's what's coming. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u128	It fits in with what I just said, namely that there should be a little more flexibility in the AOW age. Mr. Chairman. There is now broad support for implementing this package of measures. This gives the Minister of SZW sufficient reason to use his legal powers and to avoid threatening discounts on funds with a coverage of at least 100%. The VVD considers it wise to bring peace to the system and not to confront funds and participants with unnecessary discounts during the transition to the new system. But let us realize that it is not done with this pension agreement. We are still working on legislation for at least two years and it will soon take about five years to roll it out. In those five years, we're gonna run into problems. We will meet people who are unintentionally affected by the changes. Let us do our best to then stand shoulder to shoulder, solve those implementation problems and tackle them in order to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands will have a good pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u129	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Before we go to Mr. Edgar Mulder, I will suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u130	I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr. Chairman. This pension proposal is no good. It's not a pension agreement, it's a bullshit deal. First of all... The level of the pension becomes more dependent on investment results, depending on the stock exchange and the economy. This removes the security on the amount of the pension. No matter how you look at it, our pension's getting less secure. Two. The AOW age continues to rise, no matter what they say: working until your 70th year will be the new normal. Third. This proposal creates a huge gap in the pension of anyone over 45 years of age. You've been working for 20 years and paying bounty, but everything you've been promised, everything you've even got on paper, they're gonna take away from you. The abolition of the average system provides a pension problem of over 60 billion. And Minister, who's gonna pay for that? Fourth. The discounts aren't off the track. Discounts just stay possible. In fact, the ink of this fucking chord wasn't dry yet or Dijsselbloem came up with an advice for a lower calculus rate. There's gonna be a cut. Hence the FNV leadership did not want to discuss this information with the members last week, members who could still vote at that time. It's outrageous. And this morning, Draghi kicked ass: interest goes to the lowest level ever. So this agreement means, on the one hand, that everyone has to work longer and, on the other hand, that there is an increase in the chances of reductions. Fifth. This agreement does not give any certainty, none at all, in the case of heavy-duty professions. It is not even defined what a heavy occupation is and it is completely unclear whether this is a cigar from its own box. Can the Minister tell us what this means for people who earn more than €19,000? In summary. The Netherlands must continue to work until its 70th year and pensions are not indexed. In fact, the chance of discounts increases. Mr. Chairman. This breakdown of our pensions is completely unnecessary. The Netherlands has one of the best pension systems in the world. The Dutchman has almost twice spared our national income for old age. Who's doing that to us? In 2016, our pension fund alone accounted for 60% of all pension funds built up in Europe. So what's the problem? There is only one real problem, and that is the EU. The Netherlands has lost control of its own monetary policy and the European Central Bank artificially causes low interest rates, otherwise countries like Greece and Italy will go bankrupt. As a result, our pension funds have to charge too low an accounting rate, and as a result we have been talking for years about reductions in pensions. Can the Minister explain why you can retire in Romania at 63 years and since the age in 2030 is only 65 and why you can retire in France at 62 years? Those are countries where they don't have 1,500 billion. I don't understand. Mr. Chairman. Someone who is now around 50 began to work and pay contributions with a view to a pension of 70% of the final wage, which was reduced to 70% of the middle wage, and that now threatens to become an uncertain premium scheme. By the way, that citizen paid for the VRS. Talk about a trustworthy government. It's so sad. Poverty now also occurs in people who just work. An ever-growing group of Dutch people can no longer survive because of the rising costs, the care bill, the exploding energy bill and the expensive groceries. It's sad, but it's also furious. You work your whole life, but nice things aren't around anymore. Working poverty. And when you finally, finally, retire, all those promises made earlier are worth nothing and there is a risk of even more poverty. Mr. Chairman. Our welfare state is disappearing. First the WW was stripped to the bone, then the right of dismissal and now the pensions are up. End of welfare state, consciously and premeditatedly murdered by the elite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u132	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u133	Mr. Chairman. How will we look back on this agreement later? "The Battle of Koolmies"? [[Sentence could not be parsed: "Het wonder van Wouter"?]] "The miracle of the brave center"? Whatever words you say, it's an historic agreement. An important moment in our polder and a good result of political cooperation between coalition and opposition. It shows that cooperation pays off. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and in particular Minister Koolmees on the result achieved and would like to express my appreciation from this point forward for all the parties involved. The Christian Union Group is pleased to see that the agreement now before us is very much in line with our electoral programme. It warms the heart. Mr. Chairman. This agreement is good: good for the credibility of the polder, good for the credibility of the political centre and good for the credibility of our pension system. My group has been concerned about the polder lately. We saw mostly polarization. That is why it is good to see that the polder has taken responsibility here and concluded this pension agreement with the cabinet. At a time of growing gaps between rich and poor, old and young, employer and employee, I believe this agreement was one of the last opportunities for the reasonable and courageous middle. Mr. Chairman. The agreement is also good for the credibility of our pension system. The trust in our pension was waning. With a changing labour market, uncertainty about the economic future and increasing life expectancy, adjustments to the pension system were necessary. The abolition of the average system does, however, create a gap in pension building for certain age groups. A previous speaker mentioned that as well. My question to the Minister is: what role does the cabinet see for itself in this? Or does it leave this issue to the social partners and individual pension funds? In doing so, the Christian Union wishes to pay particular attention to the position of young people. Retirement is often a far-from-your-bed show for them. They are hardly represented at the consultation tables, while the impact is great. It is particularly important for young people that the pension is clear, clear and personal. Good information is essential. What is even more important is that young people should have a pension at all. We have seen in recent years that the number of employees who do not participate in a pension scheme, the so-called white spot, is only growing. This is particularly the case for young people. This must be dealt with as a matter of urgency. For the Christian Union, involvement of young people and youth organisations in the pension debate is essential. It's about them. I have a motion on this point in preparation. Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the Minister how he intends to ensure that the future effect of the survivor's pension is actually well regulated. We discussed this in detail recently when we discussed Mr Omtzigt's own-initiative paper and I. There is now too much uncertainty about the survivor's pension and there are considerable differences between funds. This can easily lead to distressing situations as we often see in practice. I would like to hear how this important subject will be placed in the future. It is positive that the increase in AOW age is reduced. This ensures that older workers have a prior view of retirement and that the increase in the AOW age is also acceptable for future generations. But this is a huge amount of money. The slower increase in AOW age costs more than 3 billion a year. I would just like to emphasise this in order to show how substantial the package that the cabinet has put on the table here is. I think it is quite a lot, knowing that letting go of the one-to-one link will take more account of younger generations than of the one-to-one link. Mr. Chairman. With the agreements on the new pension system, there is also an agreement to improve the protection of employees in the event of incapacity for work: a long-cherished wish of the Christian Union. This narrows the gap between employees andzzp'ers. My question to the Minister is: how are we going to make this an affordable and accessible product for everyone? For my group it is important that this becomes a firm collective insurance with an acceptance obligation. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Let me turn now to the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Committee. It was already recalled that the timing was spicy, but the content is like a house. The Christian Union considers it wise that the Committee recommends that a low risk-free interest rate be charged in the current system when calculating future liabilities. Given the situation in the financial markets and the years of Draghi's cheap money policy, we cannot be too careful about this. If pension funds now pay out too generous pensions, then yes, once again, for young people, the dog will be in the pot. The Minister indicated in the media that there is still plenty of time to look at the consequences of the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission. He said, among other things, "The advice to apply a lower calculation rate will have an impact in 2021. So we still have time for adjustments." What did he mean by that? Changes in the interest rate or adjustments in the agreements with the social partners? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u134	I hear Mr Bruins say that the timing of the outcome of the Dijsselbloem Committee was spicy. I imagine everyone has a slightly different view of the word spicy. What does Mr Bruins mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u135	By this I mean that it was extremely unfortunate that, just in the middle of the referendum, there was actually an additional piece of information that people had to take into account in their considerations and that it was not known at the beginning of that referendum time, so the time when the referendum was open. It's just really annoying that that came in the middle of that period, because it gave you all kinds of dynamics. That's what I mean by the word spicy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u136	Have there been any parties who knew the concept of that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u137	I don't know; I don't anyway, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u138	Then why do you find it spicy in that sense, I say through you, Mr. Chairman? Would that have made a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u139	When you open a referendum like the FNV in a certain time, I think you want all the information at the beginning of such a period to be there and that there is not suddenly such an important detail or aspect coming in during such a period, because that gives all kinds of dynamics. That's what we saw in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u140	A question for Mr Bruins. Is it wrong or unlucky timed? Are there any actors involved or did it go on its own? Did that suddenly come out like some kind of natural law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u141	I have no idea. I'm not in charge of that. I've only read it in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u142	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u143	One final comment on recent research into the tax and contribution burden for pensioners. Due to the complex patchwork of premiums, surcharges and discounts, the marginal pressure on middle-income pensioners is sometimes already over 60%. If we want future generations to have a good pension, my opinion is that the increasingly complex tax system must also be substantially reformed, otherwise we will have a nice gross savings fund, but we will have virtually nothing left. Does the Minister recognise that a thorough reform of the tax system can contribute to a better and more just old age? Finally, Mr President. There are still quite a few questions and much remains to be worked out in connection with this agreement. GroenLinks said: it's actually starting now. My group would like to take particular account of the groups I mentioned, i.e. young people,zzp'ers and vulnerable groups such as next of kin. But my group is confident that, thanks to this historic agreement, our pension system will also be the best in the world for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mr. Chairman. There's a pension agreement. I congratulate the negotiators. An agreement has been reached on the problems, but no agreement has yet been reached on the solutions. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, there is no great victory, quite the contrary. 50PLUS is angry, because the panic of 2012, when the AOW age was raised hysterically, was based on hysterical calculations. Last week it turned out to be 4 billion. Hysterical, that's for sure. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the typification, which helps me in my speech. But it was a politically-created hysteria. Only with a crisis atmosphere will everything become liquid. And it was. One after the other draconian measure saw the light of day in 2012. At the bottom of the economic cycle, instead of dampening the crisis, the AOW age rose, taxes increased, mortgage interest on the slope, care homes closed. Quickly, or we'll go bankrupt. All of a sudden, everybody's admitting it now. Rutte speaks of hysteria and the mathematicians of the Central Planning Bureau suddenly give back 4 billion in space. This confirms our position on the feasibility of a lower AOW age. But it is of course very bad if the main budgetary advisors of the cabinet always give pro-cyclical advice at times when this is convenient for the government. The power of the sustainability balance and the calculation rate are huge in the Netherlands, but also incomparable. It is not possible to make decent purchasing power figures for the following year, but if the Central Planning Bureau predicts public finances to the nearest decimal place in 2080, then we are making policies for a number of billions. That's how we deal with the calculation rate. Let's pretend we don't have anything. We don't have a big pile of money. Let's just assume that we're barely going to make any returns in the next 60 years, because then it might not be that bad. Mr. Chairman. We want to deal very carefully with one of the best pension systems in the world. But in that prudent Netherlands there is a huge battle going on between the prodigious and the precise. I get this choice of words from the Volkskrant. That's right, of course. It is at the heart of the pension debate. Because what is considered to be easy in the Netherlands is very precise in the rest of the world. The pension values in the Netherlands are true puritans that you have to look for with a glance in the rest of the world. Mr. Chairman. Apparently, Jeroen Dijsselbloem has such a magnificence. On June 11th we received his interest rate advice, in which he indicated that he had obtained many foreign advice. How does it exist? Which foreign experts did he speak to? What exactly did he ask you? Something is not right here, because in all the other countries on this planet, interest rates are higher. Has Dijsselbloem asked for advice, or has he sought only those in favour of his own position? 50PLUS proposes to put aside the opinion or to do it all over again. Not only does Jeroen Dijsselbloem make an attempt to get the bottom of the pension agreement. Mario Draghi is also ready to repeat his trick. The money press goes back on to manipulate interest rates even further down. When do we wake up? In Europe, we have chosen the lowest interest rates ourselves. There's no one to impose that on us. I have just mentioned the EU average. That's 2.1%. We are now heading towards 0%. Who's crazy now? Who makes millions of people turn to discounts while we ask them to have faith in a new system? Can I assume that our rejected motion not to cut above 100% will now be carried out? Can and will the Minister also take measures not to allow all the reductions foreseen in the next two years to continue? I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. I'm resuming. The gain of the agreement is that Rutte has called his own choice for the rapid increase in the AOW age hysterical. Furthermore, the proposed regulation forzzp'ers can certainly bear our appreciation. They will have easier access to pension funds and collective disability insurance for all, including for the 60-year-olds who are now systematically thrown out of insurance. The indexation system in the new pension contract is not poorly chosen. No more filling endless buffers. We are pleased with a cost-covering premium, but of course this should have been done through an increase in the accounting rate on the liabilities side. Now the contributors are faced with the same low interest rate that pensioners have been bleeding for ten years now. Huge pension premium increases seem inevitable. And redistributing 60 to 100 billion euros of pension money is more than an open end. The Minister's letter states that such compensation must be achieved directly at the time of the transfer of the new contract. We believe that the group of 45 years of age and older should not be led by this. Can the Minister guarantee this? But it is also unfair that a large group, the pensioners who have paid the correct premium throughout their lives, should now be allowed to pay again. For years, they didn't get an index, and now they're getting hit again. Can the Minister explain why this is called a purchasing power pension? We fear that the indexation will not be near purchasing power for many years to come. Can the Minister clarify exactly what is at the bottom of page 8 of his letter: investing in lifecycle or redistributing returns? We're trying to understand this. Young and old pay the same amount of premium. In the new system, young people get a higher level of education than older people, but as a blow to the flame, a fund can also choose to give older people less return. 50PLUS really hopes that this is a mistake, because it sounds like age discrimination. It is therefore highly unlikely that there will be any excess returns for pensioners. Have we looked at a different, simpler solution to the average problem? If the employer takes care of the full pension contribution and converts it into a gross net trajectory of wages, you will achieve the same without that bill of 60 billion. It's called a non-contributory pension. Can the Minister comment on the risk that the Netherlands will be in danger of putting the large obligation on the market which has just been mentioned? We assume the deal will not go through if this is the case. Finally, Mr. Chairman. If the interest rate on both sides of the balance sheet had been set at least at the European average, my party's reaction to this agreement would have been very different. Self-mutilation has now been chosen. We're deliberately counting ourselves poor. In the long term, that will certainly bring windfalls, but that has been done for millions of people at the expense of an old age to enjoy or look forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u146	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u147	Mr. Chairman. Agreements that you must most distrust, are agreements on which political opponents are going to beat each other on the shoulders; agreements that the VVD is just as happy with as the FNV. We have experienced it with the climate agreement, and we are now going through it again with the pension agreement. Another agreement is that it is difficult to assess the content of the agreements, because the matter is complex and in more than 50 shades of grey, without the essence becoming clear. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, the essence is that we double-gamble. We have made our pension system dependent on uncertain economic growth, which is also at the expense of the climate. It's like we have to throw six in a row twice to keep the plane in the air and not crash. With those odds, you don't usually step in. In relation to our gross national product, we have built up the largest pension assets in the world: nearly 1,600 billion dollars. In that money warehouse, built on that old-fashioned VOC mentality as Prime Minister Balkenende pointed out the ethos of our ancestors, Minister Koolmees was allowed to dive into our collective savings facility. That mysterious money warehouse makes virtually every hardworking Dutchman a speculator on the stock market, without even knowing or at least without realizing it. Arithmetic, average-systematic and a generation-neutral valuation measure: all concepts that few insured people can explain, which captivate few citizens and whose expectations are based on past results, when many of us still believed in the fairy tale that trees could grow to the sky. The special thing that is very special is that the polderers do not see the economy as a problem for many lives on earth, but as the solution to our problems. That economic growth is not the solution but the problem, we recently know when we look at the Monitor Brede Prosperity. With a pension system based on infinite economic growth, we are transferring huge ecological debt to the future. The cabinet and the polder have chosen to turn the small buttons and no one has apparently come up with the idea of turning the big button. What good is a pension on an unliving planet? The fact that our children will be the first generation most likely to get less than ours is a sign on the wall, also in terms of retirement. With a poker face, a poker pension is presented to us as the best of various worlds. And it is welcomed by the union, who may also want to succeed. What the union did not report to its members is that it seems that we have moved on to a more risky pension with this proposal. First question: is it true that there has been a shift in risk towards workers? That would surprise the Animal Party, because last week we were talking in the Finance Committee about the WRR report Money and Debt and the fact that many people do not know that the money they put in the bank is not, in principle, risk-free. And it's just a question of whether people want to take any chances with the money they put safely in the bank. Why, then, should we assume in this polder agreement that people would want to be at risk with their pensions? Mr. Chairman. The money is deposited on the roulette table of growth and on the retirement date it has to show which pension it will yield. Who knows Wouter Koolmees and Mark Rutte by the time the jackpot should be paid out, but that may not happen? Wouter Koolmies? Promised purely best case. And Mark Rutte? Wasn't that the ex-premier who faked on behalf of the VVD that big business should be tied in and that workers would earn substantial wage increases, which they probably didn't get? Mr. President, I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u148	Wouter Koolmees is Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u149	I'm trying to understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u150	Yeah, you forgot, didn't you? I'll tell the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u151	We'll keep the cabinet sharp, Mr. Chairman. Very good. I do not quite understand what the conclusion of this speech is. I hear a disgust about taking risks. Does the Animal Party now claim that we should not run any risk with our pension money and that we should all invest the money safely in government bonds from the Netherlands and Germany? And do we have to say to the people that they have to bite on an apple, or on a stick? That's not the Party's plea for the Animals, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u152	I understand the question and I shall return to it in the course of my speech. At the end, the question was answered. But I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg whether he shares the conclusion that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u153	No, he's asking you something right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u154	Fair enough. Then my answer is to ask for patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u155	I always want to give it to you. But my in-between conclusion is that you say you can't take any chances, because people don't want that. Of course, we all want to take little risk, but I would like to tell my colleague that this is an illusion in the case of pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u156	Well, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u157	Just a little longer. My experience is that what you put in is just a small part of people's pensions. Perhaps the Minister can confirm that. The vast majority of the pension, I believe, is a four-fold factor, coming from the returns of that joint money. So if you are here to argue that there is no risk of this, I think you are at least halving pensions. I hope that the follow-up to your speech will show that there will be a comma after this interim conclusion of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u158	I think that Mr Van Weyenberg will draw the wrong conclusion from what I have said so far. The essence of it is that we gamble twice. As the pension agreement now states, we are gambling once with the fact that pensions are needed to have economic growth. I think we can agree on that. But the way we have set it up with that economic growth at the moment is not sustainable. Your party knows that, too. The second guess we take is the bet with the climate. That bet isn't sustainable either. So we're gonna take a guess twice. That is the essence of our criticism of this pension agreement. It is a pity that Mr Van Weyenberg has missed that essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u159	I did indeed miss it; I am going to acknowledge it immediately. I fully agree with Mr Van Raan that it is important that pension funds invest our money more in green innovations, where we can make money in the future. That's good for the climate and I think it's good for the wallet. That is not at all a contradiction; I think we will soon agree on that. But I also tasted in your plea that taking risks was wrong at all. And as much as I'd like to tell people that they have a good pension without risk, I'm afraid that's not in it. This is not related to the climate concerns of Mr Van Raan, whom, of course, I share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u160	Perhaps for the sake of illustration, the current plans require a doubling of GDP in 35 years. That's not sustainable. I would like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg that, when we talk about pensions, that is the big button that we should all have played together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u161	As far as I am concerned, this was not so much a requirement for pensions, although I look forward to dealing with my initiative law to give participants more influence on the type of investment. I think that's where we'll find each other. That's the difference between D66 and the Party for Animals. We both have a warm heart for the climate, but you say that this is why it should all be reduced economically and I think that we are going to solve the climate, because we all have such good-looking heads and today we have windmills and solar panels that can do much more than before. I think we can become greener and richer at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u162	Proceed, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u163	It's possible. Who am I to claim that Mr Van Weyenberg is wrong? But nothing, nothing, indicates that for the time being. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. Let's see where I left off. The money we are putting away for the future, or investing away, I must say, has hardly any regard for that future. It is even invested in a way that could seriously undermine the future of our children. The fate of the elderly is equally uncertain. Perhaps this agreement will prevent them from being cut back on their pensions, but perhaps it will not. Having a high pension capital should not in any way be a reason to shatter it, or at least expose it to major risks. Because the house of cards is going to collapse, and we are already prepared for the next crisis, and that seems to be the concern of the workers in particular. A little further away from the material prospect of the future, which, by means of this pension agreement, stands on a barren slope, there is no consideration of the intangible prospects of the future, of our nature, of our climate, of the animals, which, with this agreement, are even more fed by the perverse incentive of high material return needed to pay pensions. We actually have the unique opportunity to invest our huge pension fund in what makes the earth viable in the future, so that we not only have to talk about a sustainable pension system, but we can also assume that we have a sustainable planet. The next question is perhaps close to Mr Van Weyenberg. Why does this agreement not provide for more freedom for employees to invest their pension green instead of the forced shopping and the lack of green investment and pension funds at present? Take, for example, the investments of ABP in palm oil producers. The ABP didn't get rid of this until last summer, but only after journalists, ABP participants and the Party for Animals rebelled against it. Or take the investments in the beached assets, investments in the fossil industry that everyone knows will lose value in foreseeable time. Not a participant who has anything to say about this. I would like to know from the Minister and the Prime Minister whether they think that pension funds are not there for the money, but especially for our future, a future that is perseverable, where our children find a broad concept of prosperity? Is the government prepared to promote green pensions that will not only bring money, but also, above all, happiness? I'd like a response. We're considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The parties have reached an agreement in which, in particular, the young generations become more uncertain about their future, both material and intangible. We are far from retired and are waiting patiently for the answers in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u164	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has the best pension system in the world. That's been mentioned a few times today. Nowhere in the world are the funded pension pots as full as we are: nearly 1,500 billion, twice as much as we all make in a whole year. But for whom does the Netherlands have the best pension system in the world? Is that for the pension funds themselves? For the government? For the shelf life balance? In any case, it is not for pensioners. They have not been added for ten years and politicians here are saying: we have the best pension system in the world. But in the last ten years they have not received a penny, while costs have increased by almost 20%. Less shopping, because VAT has been increased and pensioners are not compensated: the best pension system in the world. What exactly is the purpose of this best pension system? In my opinion, that is the payment of a fixed-value pension. In this sense, we do not have the best pension system in the world at all. And it's a shame we haven't indexed for ten years. It is therefore a good thing that an agreement has been reached. I hear a number of other parties calling this an agreement, and I know that the cabinet needs to showcase success, because it is rather difficult and there are also setbacks. Mr. Chairman. Then to the content. Is that glass half full or half empty? Or are we with a number of parties filling that glass from a slippery can that have to hold a lot of hands? Those retirement jars are getting bigger and bigger. Before the crisis, in 2007, there was only 700 billion left in the pot. Now that's more than doubled. And despite these huge amounts, there has been no indexing for ten years. There's plenty of money, but it can't go to the people. That's because of the historical... Sorry, hysterically low arithmetic rate of about 1%. This means that pension funds must necessarily assume that every euro deposited delivers a return of 1%, the risk-free return on government bonds. The reality is that the largest pension fund in the Netherlands, the ABP, has achieved an average of 6.6% return over the last 15 years. People don't understand that. People don't understand why they're not indexed for ten years, while 6,6% return is achieved and while those retirement pots are completely filled, like some kind of money warehouse by Dagobert Duck. DENK is a huge supporter of financial robustness and caution, but this has really gone crazy. This rule of caution greatly affects the income of pensioners. The opinion of the Dijsselbloem Committee makes it even worse. As a result, the coverage rates will decrease by 2.5%. Is it true, I ask the Minister, that this calculation advice will also apply to the new pension contract? Why do the unions say they're not? Is the Minister prepared to seek a new opinion from the Commission Parameters? As far as DENK is concerned, the reform of the interest rate should have been at the heart of this pension reform, but it is precisely this that we do not want to change. A missed opportunity. All kinds of buttons have been turned, but not the most important ones as far as we are concerned. That is the reality of the Hague, which is far removed from reality. The DENK Group is pleased that at least a degree of agreement has been reached, but the pension agreement is still full of loose ends. Apart from the hard agreements on the AOW age, it is mainly a large declaration of intent. There's still a lot to talk about in the polder before there really is an agreement. In that context, I have the following questions to the Minister. Is it true that all participants, including trade unions, have some kind of veto right, a hand brake? If not, how is the control divided? And in what way, apart from the legislative proposals, will the Chamber be involved? Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, the group of DENK is pleased that the AOW disaster that caused Rutte and Asscher is now somewhat softened. Rutte rightly called his own AOW policy hysterical, yes, insight sometimes comes late, but it can be better as far as we are concerned. I have a list of European countries here and the Netherlands is almost at the top, with 66 years. I am therefore considering tabling an amendment to keep 66 years at 66 years. That was, by the way, the commitment of the trade unions. Mr. Chairman. One of the most important challenges is the transitional problem of 60 billion. It's not fixed. The group of 40 to 55-year-olds loses this amount of pension when the new contract is introduced and nothing has yet been arranged to compensate for this. Does the Minister share the view that there should be no new pension contract until this is settled? On this point, too, I am considering a motion. In terms of transparency, complexity and confidence of young people, the question is whether anything has been won. The loss of the nominal security of 75% replaces a small amount of uncertainty with a likely greater uncertainty, by an inimitable system of purchasing pension arrangements based on investment results for outsiders. The measures for the heavy-duty professions are, for the time being, merely a declaration of intent. Employers have not yet made any money available for this and the 52% RVU fine simply remains in place. It's just waiting to see what's actually going to happen. For Zpp'ers there is no pension yet. The compulsory disability insurance forzzp's is a step forward, but deserves support only if the premium becomes affordable. This should preferably be carried out publicly with an acceptance obligation. Mr. Chairman. All things considered, the position of DENK is as follows. We support the less fast AOW increase, because this one was really too hysterical. Actually, the AOW age should just stay at 66 years. The calculation rate should increase, not only based on the interest rate on government bonds, but more taking into account real elements minus a piece of uncertainty. In principle, we support the measures for the heavy professions, but here we really have'see first and then believe'. At the moment, nothing has been arranged there at all. We support compulsory disability insurance for employees, but only if the premium is indeed affordable and is carried out collectively. Mr. Chairman. Is that glass half full or half empty? Honesty requires that it may depend more on Trump's behaviour, Brexit's and the ECB's behaviour than on the negotiating skills of employers, trade unions and government. Forgive me for any cynicism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u166	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u167	Madam President. A few weeks ago, thousands of people went out on the streets to fight for a better retirement. I was there to support them and talk to them. They were all hardworking Dutch people who have been put in the cold by this cabinet for years. Questions were asked to me, such as "How much longer do I have to work before I can retire?', "Should I sell my house later because I'm not indexed?', "Do I have to trade my house for a cheaper home?" And "Can I pay my health insurance later?" These are legitimate concerns, because pensions can no longer be guaranteed in our current pension system, not even with this new draft pension agreement. The AOW age is eventually increased to 70 years. Increased premiums and discounts threaten. And there has been no indexing for ten years, while the heavy professions are also neglected. We are in this situation because of one simple reason: the dramatic euro coin. Because the European Central Bank's policy is to keep the bankrupt economies of southern Europe alive, especially Greece, Italy and France. In order to pay their debts, interest rates are artificially kept low. An interest rate which, announced yesterday, is going to be further reduced in order to continue cloaking debts in southern Europe. This low interest rate is translated into the calculation rate for pensions. In the event of artificially low interest rates from the ECB, there must also be artificially low interest rates for our pension funds, for example, the obedient cartel politicians who would never lose European politics. Disselboom and Rutte consider it more important to serve their European colleagues than to pay our pensioners the pension they are entitled to, for which they have been spared and for which the reserves are also present. As a result of this low artificial calculation rate, the level of coverage of pensions has evaporated and has not been indexed since 2009. That means that today you get exactly the same amount as ten years ago, without any inflation correction. But you need €1,000 today to buy the same stuff that you needed in 2009 but €800. So our pensions are becoming de facto less and less valuable. Our pensioners, people who have built this country and have often spared for decades and worked hard for these pension funds, have less and less to spend. And all this is not necessary, because the pension funds, despite artificially low calculation rates, made huge returns on their investments. The interest rate remained artificially low, but the savings pool grew from less than 700 billion in 2009 to more than double, 1,500 billion now. So all we need is the guts to disobey the ECB and not to keep the interest rate artificially low, but to raise it. If you increase the calculation rate by even 1%, we can index, we do not have to cut pensions and the premium does not have to rise. There's only one risk. If the economy collapses in the coming years, we would have a problem. Then it could be that the coverage rate could no longer be guaranteed in the future. Apparently, economic development is expected to be less favourable than expected. I understand that, because this cabinet and this Chamber choose to spend 1,000 billion on pointless climate policy, 1,000 billion. That's almost as much as the whole present value of all AOW benefits. And why? For possibly 0.00007°C less warming. This cabinet also continues to drive mass immigration or at least tolerate it, which costs us billions and billions every year. So the dramatic euro coin has created the acute situation of our pensions, and we cannot solve it, and we are afraid to solve it, because we are opting for two huge costs that are putting our future economy at great risk, climate policy and unbridled immigration. The Democracy Forum wants to increase the calculation rate to at least 2%, so that pension funds have enough coverage to pay pensions and not have to cut them. That is possible if you also stop with the bizarre climate policy, so that you do not run major economic risks in the future. The funds made an average return of more than 6% over the past decades. That is quite sufficient for the 2% interest rate. So it's just an absolutely acceptable risk. It is a perfectly acceptable policy. The money is there, and we can guarantee that economic growth will continue in the future. One more point, the compulsory disability insurance for our self-employed. Quite apart from the question of what this measure is going to do in a pension agreement, there is nothing at all, namely that it is a huge restriction of the freedom that many entrepreneurs are so consciously choosing. We recognise the problems in certain sectors, such as construction, and the problem of self-employed people who can currently only be insured at enormous cost for incapacity for work. But is the solution for this to be applied to all self-employed persons and to require them to take out disability insurance? We don't think so. Much better would be to not force them to take out disability insurance, but to give them a free choice through a range of options with acceptable rates. And again, that doesn't belong in a pension agreement. So no matter how you feel about it, this has to come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall now suspend the sitting until 7:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u169	We will continue with the debate on the pension agreement and we have arrived at the government's responses. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr. Chairman. I would almost be tempted to say'may I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs', because I have not been asked any questions. However, I do appreciate being here for all kinds of reasons. The catering is excellent, but also the subject is so big that I think it is appropriate that I am here. The Chamber had asked me to be there as well. Then let me make my brief contribution. I was reminded of a debate that took place at the beginning of the previous cabinet, in which both I and the Deputy Prime Minister had to be present and a few more people. There the vice prime minister had little text and said: all I do now is hit the triangle. He meant it differently back then. I don't know exactly how he said it anymore. I have the same feeling right now, with the difference that I get to start. Well, that's nice. While I am standing here, I would like to say very briefly that, of course, I am not going to be standing here congratulating the cabinet for what has been achieved by Wouter Koolmees, opposition parties, the coalition and, of course, especially employers and, yes, employees, the trade union movement which had to say no to what was going on last November. In the end, we've come to something. It's a typical Dutch compromise. No one has anything he wants, but there's something that's very defensive. It will have a lot of effect, but I am sure that we will be preparing a nice pension system, as someone said this evening, for the next 50 years. So that's good. Mr. Chairman. That's what I'm done talking about and I'd like to give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u171	...to Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u172	In my view, I had asked the Prime Minister to what extent the government is prepared to allow early retirement schemes for those who are directly or indirectly engaged in a heavy occupation and in the service of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mr Koolmees will answer all the questions, because if I start now on parts to which he will answer, it will not work. We decide who does what, and I don't really do anything and he does everything. That's the division of roles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u174	I see that happening, Chairman... I can see that happening. But I think it might be useful if the Prime Minister says something about it, because it's about several ministries. As far as I am concerned, this is about the police, but it is also about public procurement, about people working in health care, and so on, and so on. So I think the portfolio is transcendent, I'd almost like to say. For that reason, it might be interesting to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u175	The Minister for Social Affairs is speaking here tonight, just as I am speaking on behalf of the entire cabinet. So it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u176	Finally. I don't know if this is gonna work, Mr. Van Kent, but you can try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u177	Well, finally, I'm very curious. 'Cause I'm assuming it's coordinated...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u178	We never tune anything, but it always goes well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u179	... and that there will be an answer to my question from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Then on another point, if I may, Mr. Chairman. This evening we are discussing another point, namely the freezing of the AOW age. Like us, the Prime Minister will have seen the film come across everywhere with the illustrious promise to the street maker in Venlo: you can get out at 65; vote VVD. The question is why the Prime Minister did not use this agreement to honour this promise after all the promises that this Prime Minister has failed to honour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u180	The most important promise I made in 2010 and 2012 was coming out of the crisis stronger. I think that's what happened with the Netherlands. In the previous period, of course, we had to take a number of measures, where the AOW was the increase to 67 years and then the link to life expectancy. I think we went too far back there. I have put the word 'hysterical' on that; that term has been quoted a few times this evening. Why did I do that? Because I think if you look at it now, on balance, it's wise that we move from a one-on-one link to an eight-month-to-12-month link. I think that's also better in proportion to how many years you're in school and then working versus the number of years you can still enjoy a pension. This is a more logical distribution, which can also be financially adjusted, as you have seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u181	Finally, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u182	But take that 48-year-old street maker who needs to get out of 68 now. Isn't that a different deal from the Prime Minister's promise in the past to that street maker that he could get out at 65? So again the question: why do you not keep your promise that the street maker, who does heavy and important work, can get out at 65?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u183	What we are now making possible is that it is possible, on the basis of individual customization, to make arrangements for people with heavy professions to stop working earlier. I think that's a big profit, including for the street maker you mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u184	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Two weeks ago, together with the presidents of the employers' and employees' organisations and the chairman of the ESC, I warmly welcomed the broad lines of the agreement in principle on the renewal of the pension system. As far as I'm concerned, a historic and also major step after nine years of talking. After all these years, we have now agreed on a fundamental adjustment of the system. This is of great importance to and in the interest of all Dutch. The Cabinet and the social partners are now working together on a good retirement provision for all, for present and future generations. In the meantime, it has also been shown that the agreement has broad support from the grassroots. That is very important. We are going to make the pension system future-proof for the coming decades, as Mr Van der Linde said. This requires broad social and political support. I am also very pleased that the Labour Party and the Green Left, prior to the presentation of the agreement, indicated in a press conference that they were pleased with the agreement and would welcome it politically. I liked that news. Today I also welcome the warm words of the SGP, both to my address and to the agreement. In this debate I hope to convince other parties too of this agreement. An agreement that has such broad social support, from the whole polder, also deserves broad political support. This agreement has not come about without a fight. There have been nine years of research and negotiation before, with traps and standing up we can say. During the last year and a half of this process, I myself have experienced intensively as a responsible ruler. November last year I also stood here to explain why it was not possible to reach an agreement at the time. I am standing here again, fortunately with an agreement, a good and balanced agreement. Compared to November, there is a better and more complete agreement, including the agreement to reduce the long-term increase in the AOW age. There is also an agreement with which we can continue in the future, an agreement with perspective for both old and young. Retirement workers, often after years without indexing, regain vision of pensions rising. Younger workers will be building up more pensions for equal contributions. The outdated average system is replaced by a fairer system. Everyone, young and old, is about to receive the pension that fits with the contributions deposited. Participants will be given the opportunity to take up a maximum of 10% of the pension at one time when they retire. Older workers with heavy work are given more opportunities to take up other, less heavy work or retire earlier. The AOW age is increasing more slowly for everyone. Younger generations also see the AOW age rise less rapidly in the future. We put a line through the legal rule that a year longer life also means AOW a year later. With pleasure and pleasure, I will explain the agreement to your Chamber tonight. That's what I'm gonna do in the next block, so just write with me, for the record. I start with the pension contract and the average, then pension other than the calculation rate/Commission-Dijsselbloem, then the self-employed, then the AOW and then the follow-up process, the steering committee. These are the blocks I'm about to walk by. A lot of questions have been asked, so I'm gonna go through it as fast as I can. Finally, my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u186	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u187	There's something else I want to say. I have already done it during the presentation of the agreement in the SER building, but I would also like to emphasise it in Parliament this evening. This agreement could only be concluded because the presidents and vice-presidents of the trade unions and employers' organizations have assumed their responsibilities and have stuck their necks out. I appreciate that very much. Certainly in this place I would like to express my appreciation for that. The same applies, of course, to Mrs Hamer, the President of the Economic and Social Council, and to all other people who have contributed to this result over the last nine years. So much for my introduction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u188	I wanted to ask Mr. Koolmee how the cake and the champagne tasted yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u189	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u190	Yeah, that's right. I did drink champagne yesterday and eat cake at 10:30 in the morning, and I'm never gonna do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u191	At least I hope it tastes good for Mr Koolmees, because that champagne obviously has a disgusting aftertaste...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u192	Well, I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u193	... because he's been drinking on the backs of pensioners. Because this fucking agreement doesn't say anything about an improvement, doesn't say anything about indexation and stronger, there will be discounts. So again the question: how did the cake and the champagne taste yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u194	I've already answered that question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u195	Yeah, this is such a shame. Drinking champagne at the expense of others while nothing has improved. While abolishing the average systematique creates a hole of 60 billion, which has to be paid. While Dutch people have to work longer and there will be cuts, probably already last year. You continue to drink champagne cheerfully, perhaps not in the morning, but later in the day. But it is and remains scandalous, about the backs of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u196	Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer all the questions raised in the first term. All the issues that Mr Mulder now raises are in those questions and also in my answers. I'd like to walk through that step by step if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u197	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u198	I shall begin with the renewal of the second pillar, the pension. As has already been said, the pension system is in urgent need of renewal. Over the past decade, the system's vulnerabilities have been exposed by increased life expectancy, by the changing labour market and also by developments in financial markets. I am pleased that the Economic and Social Council has issued an important draft opinion and that, on this basis, the Cabinet and the social partners have jointly agreed on the renewal of the pension system. It is about a system, a package of agreements, at its core, aimed at three objectives. It aims at a more purchasing power pension that fits the modern labour market and leads to a more personal and transparent pension. In the modernisation process, it is essential to maintain the strong elements, while maintaining the AOW as a solid and solidarity basis for all Dutch people, while maintaining compulsory participation and collective implementation, which also allows for low costs, and maintaining collective risk sharing, which protects against financial shocks and guarantees that the pension is and will remain a lifelong benefit, no matter how long you live, and the survivor's and invalidity pensions, which provide protection and form an important part of the pension system, I say to Mr Bruins and Mr Omtzigt. In view of the time I am not going to go through the agreement entirely, but important elements are indeed the abolition of the average system, the targeted compensation for this, the handling of the white spots, people who are now not building up pensions, the two new pension contracts, which need to be worked out in the steering committee, the agreement on the less rapid reduction and also the withdrawal of the sum at once. Those are all things that have been asked questions about. I'm going into that more specifically now. I shall begin with Mr Omtzig's question on the comparison of the new contracts. Mr Omtzigt's question was how the contracts would have worked over the last 40 years if you looked back. He asked: can the Minister work this out? The Central Planning Bureau published a report early this month which provides insight into the effects of the transition to a new pension system. In the coming period, the CPB will continue this analysis. It will also include a comparison between the new pension contracts. In that report, the CPB looks at a lot of scenarios. It's 2,000, I say out of my head. There are very good scenarios, but also very bad scenarios. In doing so, we are going to see how that contract is held in a situation where it is going badly for a long year. The shock resistance of the new contract is thus tested. I would like to share that analysis with your Chamber if those sums are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u199	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u200	It's all loose questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u201	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u202	I look forward to that study with great interest, but I would really like to see that analysis separately. I don't need 400 scenarios with all kinds of connections, but just how it would have been with the pretty extreme shocks we had in the system in 2002 and 2008. Can we see that part of the analysis separately? Can the Minister ask the CPB to work that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u203	Yes. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u204	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u205	Mr Van Kent asked a question about the transition and compensation. He asked: how do you ensure that capital compensation is not at the expense of the indexing perspective of pensioners? Indeed, a CPB note was published on the website last week. Sums have also been made by the pension federation, which has been mapped out in different ways how to shape the compensation of the abolition of the average system and what effect that has. As Mr Omtzigt said, these figures show that pensioners come out well when it comes to the replacement rate, the level of pension. I also agree with Mr Omtzigt that all participants in a pension fund can contribute to the compensation of the group affected by the abolition of the average system. I'm not going to say in advance that it couldn't come out of the buffers. Mr Omtzigt was right to point out that the buffers are, of course, undivided assets for all members of the pension fund. It must therefore be balanced, for all generations, for all members of a pension fund, and so different buttons must be considered: the buffers, the pension contributions, the switch to a new contract, the double transition, as it is called. All these buttons are part of the analysis of how we can shape this compensation generationally balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u206	With the possible result that this would be to the detriment of the level of cover and the financial position of a pension fund, which would result in the increase in pensions being further out of the picture with prices?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u207	You need to make a comparison between the current contract and the new contract. If we were to remain in the current contract, there would be no or no indexing in the next ten, fifteen or twenty years. Indeed, we have agreed that only partially indexed from a coverage rate of 110% and fully from a coverage rate of 130%. In the new contract we actually do two things at the same time: the elimination of the average system, but also the lowering of the buffers, which actually brings indexing closer. At the same time, Mr Van Kent is right that compensation for the abolition of the average system must come from all participants. We can get that out of the buffer. Again, the buffer is for all participants, not just for pensioners but for all participants. But it can also come from premium or from a longer investment horizon. These are all elements that need to be discussed at the pension table and in which generation-balanced choices have to be made. That's different for every fund, unfortunately. If only it were so simple that there was one tailor-made fund that would apply to the whole of the Netherlands. That's not true. There are funds with young employees and funds with much older employees. So that's different every time, and we need to make that customization possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u208	If we have to believe the cabinet, we have to see it first and then believe, because it all has to be worked out, because the new contract means the level of cover, so the financial position of a pension fund is slightly ahead. On the other hand, the abolition of the way in which pensions are built can lead to a deterioration in the financial position. In other words, on balance, the increase in pensions will not come nearer to prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u209	No. Mr Van Kent always forgets one thing. The biggest change is the abolition of mandatory buffers. Again, in the current contract, full indexing can only be achieved with a coverage of 130. You know that a lot of funds are around 100. There are also funds with a better coverage, but a few large ones are around 100. That's the biggest element that brings the indexing closer. In the future, we're not gonna build those buffers anymore. That's the indexing perspective. On the other hand, there is in fact still a distribution account for the abolition of the average systematiek. Over the next few years, we will have to calculate in the steering committee how to shape that combination in a balanced way. For this, finger exercises have been done by the CPB and also by the Pension Federation. They show that you can shape that with a mix of measures, for example part of the buffer and part of the premium. But that will have to be different at every fund level. Customisation must also be made possible in order to achieve this in a balanced, generation-neutral way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u210	Finally. There are pension funds that already have no buffer at all, because they are already on a scheme where certain employers and employees have to contribute, but where they do not know what will eventually come out of it. There is no buffer there. More importantly, the cabinet's desire to adapt the way in which contributions are built up, to abolish the average systematique, is going to lead to a huge bill. The estimates vary. I heard 40 billion, I heard 100 billion, and the last I heard was 60 billion. On the left or right, this account is paid by employees or pensioners, with employees also contributing to employers. In short, it will be at the expense of the pension fund's financial position, which means that it will get farther away from prices than ever before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u211	Two things. The latter is not true. I just said that we are going to a new system where we are not building mandatory buffers. Try to let go of that frame and take it apart analytically, I say to Mr Van Kent. We're talking about about 60 billion. That's actually a grant that people my age, between 35 and 55, paid in the first phase of their working career to the older workers. If we abolish that now, that group will not get that subsidy back. We don't want that, because we want it to be compensated for by that group. That is why it has to be compensated from the collective. That may be out of the buffer if there is or it may be out of the transition to a new contract with a longer investment horizon, the so-called double transition. There are several buttons in the system that we can do that with. The first condition is that it should be balanced, careful and transparent. But again, each fund will be different. The ABP has a different composition than the Horeca Fund. We need to take that into account, and we need to make that possible. That is why all these calculations need to be made. I also refer to the websites of the Pension Federation and the CPB, where such indicative figures have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u212	Mr Koolmees always says that it must be very balanced. He says that the buffer is everyone's, but there is still a group that has contributed the most, namely those who are at the very end of their career. They've been pouring into it all these years. But now it seems like you're saying, because there's another system, we're just gonna put a hold on all those people who saved it. How are you going to guarantee that it is balanced and that all these people are going to be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u213	I just said that. It's also in the letter. The cabinet is going to create a legal framework for the transition abolition average. It will contain a number of conditions that are the same for all funds. We're gonna do it nicely. The principles are care, balance and transparency. And that legal framework is therefore applicable to all funds. Subsequently, the implementation per fund will be different, specific. Mrs Van Brenk says that pensioners are being hit because it comes out of the buffer. But Mr Omtzigt said in his first term that it is precisely the indexing perspective that ensures that pensions for pensioners are higher than in the current contract. This is evident from all the sums we have seen over the last few weeks. And since young people and pensioners both benefit from the new contract, I think it is fair that they pay a little part in compensating for that middle group. We do not want the middle group to be the child of the account. We have to be careful that we constantly talk about fear by saying that pensioners are the winner or the loser or the middle group is. No, it must be balanced and transparent. That is why such a transition framework lays down a legal framework for how this should be done. And we're gonna work it out nicely. But it's really gonna take a while before it's all shivered out, because it's complicated matter. But it is the starting point of both me and the social partners in the agreement we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u214	I understand that the Minister keeps shouting "but the indexing perspective!" I understand that we no longer need to go to the 104% and the 110%, but to get a little indexed. Everything above 100% will be paid out. It is a fact that Mr Van Kent has just said: it really seems that anyone who is 100% might not make it at all. Then there are no buffers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u215	I understand Mrs Van Brenn's question, given the figures for a few large funds such as the ABP and the PME, which indeed came out yesterday. But I would also like to put some sense of reality into this. We're talking about a transition that's probably starting in 2022. Then the first step, which is likely to last between five and ten years, is to carefully shape the abolition of the average. I have also always said that you will have to deal with my successor and the successor afterwards. If we make today's daily rates and coverage levels leading to something that should happen in 2022, then we're not getting anywhere. Mrs. Van Brenk is right in her own right. If the coverage levels are low, it is more difficult to shape the transition. That's true. But we still have a time to get things right. And no one has been held to the impossible. Now, if you look at the sums that have been made, it's 4 percentage points of coverage, so that 60 billion that you could solve in ten years. Then you're talking about 0.4% a year that you could partially solve out of the buffer and partly out of the new contract in order to do it in a balanced way. We shouldn't push bears on the road that can be hugged, I'll just say, with which the problem can be removed. Nice metaphor, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u216	Mrs. Van Brenk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u217	I was distracted by the hugging of bears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u218	Yeah, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u219	I get that. But it says in your letter that the compensation must be there on the first day of the conversion of the pension contract, or do I understand that much longer can be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u220	The letter states that direct compensation will take place, if possible. I myself would like that very much, because that means that you no longer have any labour market effects, no hassles, and that it is rightly clear, but honesty commands me to say that I do not think it is very realistic for a lot of funds. They need time to take that step and to do it in a balanced way. You also need time to use, for example, the longer investment horizon of young people to pay part of that account. Part of the buffer, that 0.2% or 0.4% I was just talking about, you can also spread nicely in time. I think that's more practical and executable than at once, but it would be nice if it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u221	We are talking very much about what is going to happen under the hood at the pension funds. And I honestly understand the unrest about this. I mean, you're somewhere between 45 and 55 and you're just in a mood wondering, what does this mean to me? I'm in that age group, I'll tell you what. Can the Minister indicate what I'm going to see? I have my UPO now. It says at the end of the year that if things go a little well, I can expect about this. Am I gonna see anything at all? Or are the pension funds going to arrange this invisible for me and come up with just a letter saying: well, we've got it pretty much this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u222	We don't know all the details yet. Let's be honest. My image is that we're going to make a transition framework. We're going to prescribe what such a transition plan has to comply with. It's all about communication. That includes what we're actually doing, and on what basis. That includes what period we're taking for that. That includes why we do it this way. That is because of a balanced generational balance. That's how I see it. This can indeed be done through communication to the participants. The most important thing is that this is transparent and that the participants understand what is happening and why it is happening. Then you can talk about it as a accountability body or as participants. Exactly how we're going to do this is part of the elaboration. Moreover, the pension funds themselves have asked for this. They say, "Bring us guidance; give us guidance so that we may carry it out." This must provide the confidence that this is done carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u223	Let me tell the Minister that I hope that we can arrange for the ordinary pension participant to hardly see this, and that we can really make this a technical exercise of the pension fund itself. I understand very well that the Minister says that we all do not know it yet, but that saves a lot of unrest in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u224	I very much agree with Mr Van der Linde. The important thing is that it should be clear that there is no cohort left behind as a loser of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u225	What we just saw here, doesn't it indicate what's completely wrong with this agreement? There's going to be a serious question, even from our own coalition, who wants to help you. He says, "Make it clear to the people of the country what happens when you're 45 or 55." What happens then? Because there's 60 billion disappearing. What do these people see? Besides all the woolly language, the only answer is actually: we don't know and we're gonna work it out. Those are literally your words: we do not know yet and we have to wait and see. And that agreement was then signed by among others the PvdA and GroenLinks. "We don't know yet and we have to wait and see," while it hits millions of Dutch people and it comes to everything they've saved up for. Any other proposal here must always be accompanied by ten plans on how people are compensated. And today it's just said here: we'll figure it out afterwards, but we'll kill the current system. What you just saw here is the essence of why this is a fucking chord.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u226	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u227	I don't think I'm going to convince Mr Mulder tonight. Let me break things up. We're gonna work this out with each other before we switch to a new agreement. Then I will also come to your Chamber with legislation and I can discuss it with you, both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. That's one. Two: even before Mr Van der Linde asked his question and after Mrs Van Brenk, I mentioned in my reply the sums made by, for example, the Pension Federation and the CPB. I would advise Mr Mulder to look at these figures in order to get a sense of what we are talking about here. I also recommend that he read the letter stating that we are going to legally ensure and develop this transition framework. That's because this will be different for each fund. Funds differ in their composition. You have funds with many young employees, with many older employees or with many pensioners. Mr Van der Linde mentioned DC arrangements, or defined contribution schemes, which are different. That makes it technically complicated. But all those sums have been made, Mr. Mulder. You can just read it on the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u228	That champagne really didn't go well. The level here is to pretend that the people who are preparing this debate do not read the texts. At the bottom of the line, an agreement has been signed with only loose ends, with an amount of 60 billion that still has to be covered somewhere and that has not been worked out. The only thing that's said is, wait and see, it's gonna be okay. I've heard that a lot, and it often doesn't work out. About these figures and the figures: you are in a cabinet that is not even able to calculate the purchasing power figures for the following year. So don't come up with the maths for 40 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u229	No. I didn't. I have heard a number of groups make a serious contribution today. They said they're keeping their finger on the pulse, that they want to be involved in the elaboration and that they're going to test whether it's going to be properly transferred to a new system. Before we do that, we still need legislation. This is going to be an extensive parliamentary debate. I believe that Mr Mulder is making a caricature of the contributions of the political groups, but also of my cabinet letter and all the work that has already been done in the ESC and by the Central Planning Bureau and the Pension Federation. But I think Mr Mulder had a position in advance. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt asked how individual objections worked during the transition. Both the Economic and Social Council and the Cabinet consider it important that existing pension entitlements, pension rights and new pension building can be kept together. The conversion of accrued pension entitlements and pension rights requires a collective transfer of value. One of the conditions for a collective transfer of value is an individual right of objection for members and beneficiaries. In order to facilitate the conversion of existing pension entitlements and pension rights, we will consider whether and, if so, how to adapt the individual right of objection. That must be done very carefully. In the near future, the possibilities for legislative adjustment will be identified so that the Steering Committee can consider them. This is really an important point of attention for the transition, in order to be able to shape it in a good way. Mr Omtzig also asked: can the Minister guarantee that something will only change if the EU legal sustainability of the obligation for both contracts can be confirmed? Mrs Van Brenk also asked. The cabinet, like Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Van Brenk, considers it very important that the new pension system should remain European law-abiding and not at the expense of compulsory retirement. I share and understand the concerns of the Chamber on this point. I will make every effort to obtain as much certainty as possible in advance as possible about the European legal sustainability and the maintenance of obligations. In this context, for example, we are talking to the European Commission; these talks are already taking place. The content of these talks is, of course, confidential and I cannot share them with you, but the Council of State will also, in due course, review the European legal sustainability of the proposals for amending the laws and regulations. I note, however, that I cannot give any guarantees on this point, not even after a discussion with the European Commission. The final assessment is a legal argument which lies with the European Court of Justice. But of course we can find comfort with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u230	I added one more question. That was like it's being tested separately for both contracts. It is important that they are tested one by one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u231	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u232	However, I would like to challenge the government to indicate in the road map that we hope to get, a moment when the government will return to the European legal sustainability, and to what extent it can be tested. You don't have to do that today. I would prefer to receive a letter from the Commission. An opinion from the European Court would also be very welcome. You can get advice from the state's attorney, too. There are several roads. But I'd like to be a little more comfortable than waiting for a bill to be submitted to the Council of State. If we're gonna have another discussion, I think we're gonna be late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u233	I understand. A number of years ago, the Council of State delivered an opinion on this issue. This concerned in particular the elimination of the average systems and their effects. We are already talking to the European Commission, precisely to ensure this point. From a purely formalistic point of view, the European Court of Justice is concerned, but I understand Mr Omtzig's question very well. I will also take this with me in the legal framework in the road map.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u234	Thank you for taking this into the roadmap that's coming. A new contract not only abolishes the average premium. Better: the average structure, because the average premium is maintained in the forms we see. But are there any other elements that the European Court could regard as a solidarity element? I look towards Mrs Van Brenk and think about the buffers; they also come into play. The old opinion of the Council of State is therefore not applicable to the contract proposed here. I'm very fond of a new advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u235	Once with Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u236	A brief question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u237	I had a supplementary question to that. Is the deal off if the obligation is compromised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u238	Yeah, I think we can conclude that with each other. This Chamber attaches great importance to the maintenance of the obligation. That is a condition, not only for your Chamber, but also for the social partners and the cabinet. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u239	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u240	Mr Omtzigt also asked: how will the Minister monitor the volatility of pension benefits? The new contract offers more opportunities for rapid indexing, but that also means that reduction in bad times is seen more quickly. Those are two sides of the same coin when you start working with fewer buffers. In doing so, pensions move faster with the development of the economy. In the elaboration of the new contract within the steering group, reducing the volatility of benefits will be an important focus, both for the social partners and for me. There are several ways or possibilities to reduce volatility, for example by spreading shocks over a period of five or ten years. That's a possibility. But there can also be customisation in investment policy, for example by covering the risks of investment policy. On this subject of life cycle investment there was also a question. When you're young, you take more risks and invest more in shares, but when you're older, you invest more in bonds, because you want to take less risk because you want to have a more stable benefit. But there are several technical effects for how to limit that volatility. It is also one of the objectives set out in Mrs Hamer's draft opinion. Mr Omtzigt also raised the question of whether retirement benefits of 75 years of age are now being converted. The ESC has expressed a preference for converting existing claims into a new contract. The cabinet is willing to facilitate that "collective entry." We are already working on the valuation framework, which is being worked out and dealt with in the steering committee. The question of whether the pension entitlements of members and thus the pension benefits of pensioners will be converted into the new contract is ultimately for the social partners in the sectors of industry and in enterprises. For example, if it appears that the 75-year-old participants and pensioners will benefit from a switch to one of the two contracts, the social partners may decide to do so, within the framework of the valuation framework that will ensure the balance for all participants in the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u241	I'd like you to finish your sentence, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u242	I'm done with this subject. I can answer a few other questions on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u243	That's what I'd do first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u244	Mrs. Van Brenk asked why it is called a "buyable pension." Actually, I've already answered that question. The mandatory buffers will be abolished and this will bring indexing or an increase in benefits closer. In the current rules, partial and full indexation can only be applied from a coverage rate of 110% and 130%. Since we're going to be steering at 100% coverage, that increase is getting closer. On the other hand, there is a faster reduction in a setback. That's the exchange. It's two sides of a medal. Mr Bruins and Mrs Van Brenn had asked a question about the abolition of the average systematiek. Can I guarantee that 65-plussers won't suffer? I think I just answered that question in an interruption. It must be carefully and balanced. Mr Azarkan asked: does the Minister agree that the new contract cannot be accepted if there is no solution to the average system? The answer to that is that I am confident that we can solve this together, given all the calculations made by the Pension Federation and the CPB. But would it not be possible, unexpectedly and unexpectedly, to make the transition in a responsible and balanced way, then we cannot go through with it, because then we cannot achieve that compensation. That just wouldn't be justified. But again, a lot of calculations have been made and there is a lot of confidence that it can be done. Mr Van Raan asked: is it right that the pension agreement shifts risks to the employees? In the current pension system, investment risks, life expectancy risks and other financial risks are primarily absorbed by pension funds. This is reflected in the level of coverage. If the level of cover falls below a certain level, pensions and accrued entitlements are not indexed or, if necessary, even reduced. The financial risks are thus already borne by the participants and pensioners in a fund. The premiums have been reduced. The possibility to increase the level of cover with the premium is gone. In the new system, the system at its core remains the same. There's no additional risk shift in it. It is clearly a premium system. I have just answered Mrs Van Brenk's question about life cycle investment. You take risks in the composition of the fund that are related to your age. When you're young and have a longer investment horizon, you want to take more risks to get more returns, while when you're a little older you might want to invest a little more in bonds to have more security in the benefit phase. If you look at the total, it will lead to prosperity gains, including higher pensions for everyone in the system. It was therefore included as part of the draft opinion of the ESC. These were the questions about the contract and the average.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u245	I would like to address two points. One of them is the purchasing power pension. For us, purchasing power is at least inflation, so around 2%. Looks like it's gonna take us a long time to get to that level. Then you'd have to have about 120% coverage for that tenth part, so that's gonna take a while. I would like to say the following for the people who are watching. You're acting like it's gonna go really well from tomorrow as soon as it goes in. In my opinion, it will take a very long time for real purchasing power to be guaranteed from the pension fund at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u246	The answer is yes. Anyway, we're in the elaboration phase first. We can't take the step to the new contract yet. I have just indicated that it is earlier 2022 than next year. That's step one. Secondly, Mrs Van Brenk is right that you cannot switch in one go, unless you have a fund that already has a substantial buffer in the current situation, for example the pension fund for construction which has a coverage rate of 117%. That is, of course, already partly indexing. Then it also depends on how many years you take to spread returns positive and negative. Do you do that in ten years or five years? Those are all parts that are related to the question of how much you can increase pensions at that stage. The transition to a new system does not mean that there is suddenly more money, certainly not. But the fact that you're abolishing the mandatory buffers makes sure that indexing gets closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u247	I certainly recognise that indexation is getting closer, but inflation compensation is still a long way away. I would like to address the issue that older people prefer not to take risks. I think the opposite is true, because it has been proven that they understand that the returns can be better if you invest. I had specifically zoomed in on the following. It also stated that pension funds could choose to allocate the returns more to young people and less to older people. That sounds like you're paying the same premium, but the young people are getting more build-up and can also get a higher return. That sounds really weird, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u248	I don't think so. When you invest lifecycle, you actually say to young people: you are at greater risk, because for example you invest more in shares with the expected result that your pension is higher, but also with a risk that it will be lower due to blows on the stock market. This is easier for young people than for the elderly, who depend on benefits. Young people still have a very long period of time in which they can cope with and repair those blows, which differ in the stock market. There are all kinds of theories and figures on how to do that. However, this means that the various participants in the fund are at different risks. You must appreciate that. I think you can explain them just fine. That's one. Mrs Van Brenn is right on the second point. I have spoken to older people's organisations and they indicate that they do want to continue to be at risk, precisely because they are expected to be able to achieve a higher pension. Then they're willing to risk it going down. So I am not saying that everything should be invested in bonds, but that you should think about how much volatility you want at the benefit stage. You just have to make a thorough assessment, including at fund level, how much risk you're taking in that benefit phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u249	I would just like to make sure that I have understood correctly that the Minister says that there is no risk in the new system that there will be no more risk among the workers. Do I understand correctly that this is unchanged? Did I hear him say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u250	What we are doing is that we are moving from a benefit agreement to a contribution scheme, but I note that over the past ten or fifteen years, the old-fashioned sponsor risk, which the employer would add to if the level of cover were to be compromised, does not actually exist anymore. Indeed, we have saved EUR 1,500 billion together and we have EUR 30 billion per year in premium payments, so that the premium does not actually allow you to control the level of cover. That is, in fact, the actual situation, which we are now making formal. 'Cause we haven't seen that sponsor risk in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u251	I understand that the Minister says: in the new system more risk will be transferred to the workers. That's what I wanted to hear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u252	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u253	Well, I don't think I just said that. In my view, de facto, the agreements at the moment are based on the fact that all the participants, i.e. workers and pensioners, bear the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u254	I am also trying to understand what the result is the difference between adjusting the calculation rate and lowering the buffers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u255	Point one. If you adjust the calculation rate, the size of your assets will not change. The only thing you're adjusting is the distribution of that ability between the participants in time. Yeah? That's one. Two is: that actually means that you have a higher level of coverage and start indexing and cashing faster, but then you run the risk of being left behind with a deficit. That is the effect of increasing the arithmetic rate. The buffers are something else. In addition, you say: you can only pay out, allocate returns, once you have reached a certain buffer in the fund. Both elements have to do with certainty, with prudence and with the protection of the participants, but they do differ in the distribution across the generations. The second point is: if you hand out the returns you've achieved, you've actually realized them. When you start math, you act like they're already inside. That is the difference between the two approaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u256	But why are we doing one thing and not the other? The Minister says that we are going to go to a system where we are going to lower the buffers and take more risks, and so we can act faster and more volatilely in the event of setbacks. And we do not do the other thing, which is to bring the rate of calculation to a realistic level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u257	I do not agree with Mr Azarkan that this is realistic. I shall come back to that in a moment, because I have had a lot of questions about the Dijsselbloem Committee and the interest rates. That's a separate folder. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u258	I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u259	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u260	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u261	No, okay, so we'll do the calculus rate like this. That was my point, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u262	Yeah, we'll do it in a minute. Next folder. Mr Klaver and Mrs Van Brenn had questions about the discounts. How are we going to prevent discounts in the new system? I think it is important that there is peace in the system, and also in the transition to the new system, as long as the precise impact and financial details have not yet been vibrated. Therefore, in anticipation of the new pension system, I intend to give pension funds additional time to meet the financial requirements, and not to be short of coverage above 100% for the time being. Now we're sending at 104.3%; that's the minimum required equity. We're going to send at a coverage rate of 100%, and in the meantime we won't cut to a coverage rate above 100%. That is in fact also borne in mind the initiative law of Mr Smeulders and Mrs Van Brenk van GroenLinks and 50PLUS to avoid discounts. This measure is only a little more specific, because it is not about the recovery periods and extending them from five to seven years, and we also do not allow coverage below 100%. In my view, the initiative law would not reduce below 100%. I do not think that is wise, but I am prepared to say to GroenLinks and 50PLUS that in the autumn I myself will come up with an arrangement to prevent the discounts through Article 142 of the Pension Act. This also achieves the objective of the legislative proposal. Mrs Van Brenk asked challengingly: is the rejected motion of 50PLUS still being carried out about not shortening above 100%? The answer is yes. Mr Van Rooijen was also here tonight; I hope he is watching. Mr Klaver also asked how I would reduce the waiting time gap between temporary workers and other workers. At the moment, there is indeed a legal exception for a maximum waiting period for the six-month temporary employment sector. Social partners also use this space. As a result, a large number of employees in the temporary employment sector do not build up a pension. The social partners in the temporary agency sector have decided to carry out a study on the effects of a reduction in the waiting period, i.e. not six months but shorter periods for employees, employers and the pension fund StiPP. This concerns the effects on pension building, costs and administration. That's also in the letter I sent you about the attack plan white stains. The social partners cooperate in the research with StiPP and have the research carried out by an external party. They aim to ensure that the results are available just after the summer and that they form the basis for negotiations on the arrangement between the social partners and the temporary agency industry. I'll be in touch with the parties involved about the progress. I will inform your Chamber of the results of this. That is also in the letter I sent you on cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u263	I thought, "Where do I know this from?" But indeed, it is in the letter. The question I asked was a little more specific and concerned the following. Now we see a big difference in the waiting time. How does the Minister view this? In my view, the social partners are not deaf and they also hear what is being exchanged here. I would like to hear from the Minister for Social Affairs how he looks at the desirability of that waiting period now being six months while it is two months for other workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u264	I have three answers to this. The first point is that, in the transition to the new system, it becomes more relevant that younger workers in particular start to build up their pensions more quickly, because it simply means much more for the pension result later in life. The second point is that in November I was surprised by a study by the CBS on the extent of the white spots. We always assumed that about 4% of the employees in the Netherlands did not build up a pension, but that turned out to be 13.5%. That is also why I asked the social partners to think with me about how we are going to reduce the white spots. Once again, in the new system this becomes even more relevant. One part of this is indeed the waiting time in the broadcasting sector. At the negotiating table, therefore, I understood from the social partners themselves that they are now working on this, that they have carried out this research, precisely with a view to combating the white spots. I think it is appropriate to leave the social partners in their role and to allow the negotiations to take place and to inform the Chamber after the examination and negotiations have been concluded. But the goal is clear: we want the white spots to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u265	I agree. The Minister convinced me to leave that with the social partners. But I do want it to be very clear to the social partners that something must be done there, that the white spots must be dealt with, that the waiting period really cannot stay that way and that they now have the chance to do so. But if that doesn't happen, it will eventually come back here in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u266	Sure. But the fact that the social partners, both employers and trade unions, have addressed this point for their own collective bargaining already indicates that this issue is alive. But it's definitely coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u267	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u268	Mr Van Weyenberg asked what is the planning of the examination of options. We now have 10% in one go. I will be coming very soon with a letter to the Chamber on how that could be designed. Another point is indeed about more options in terms of mortgage during the rush hour of life. I will take this issue into account in the planning in the road map that I am about to commit to Mr Omtzigt. Mr Bruins and Mr Omtzigt had asked how we would ensure that the survivor's pension and invalidity pension are properly regulated in the new scheme. We've been talking about that recently. We know that the Labour Foundation is in the process of giving an opinion on this. The tax framework will in any case allow for the coverage of survivors' pensions and invalidity pensions under the new scheme. The default, the starting point must be that the survivor's pension is well regulated by default. On the contrary, the revision of the scheme offers an excellent opportunity to make the survivor's pension more standardized and more comprehensible. The financial risks that people now face must be reduced as much as possible, bearing in mind Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins' own-initiative paper. The STAR, the Foundation of Labour, is currently preparing an opinion on how to design it. The opinion will be ready in the early autumn, so that it can be part of the elaboration of the new contract. Mr Omtzigt asked questions about the hidden costs, also in the light of developments in Australia and the report published there. I recognize that question, because Mr Omtzigt has asked written questions on this point twice. The answer is ready and will soon be coming his way. The Authority for Financial Markets has investigated the Improved Premium Scheme Act in the Netherlands. There have been some signals that I take very seriously and that touch this point. In my letter of 1 February, I stressed the importance of transparency and cost control of these products. I am therefore going to see if I can have an investigation into the possibilities of addressing unnecessary financial disadvantages for participants in premium schemes in the Netherlands. We do want to learn from experience in other countries. Part of it may be that we are thinking about transparency. I find Maximing complicated, because then you might put a bottom in the market. You should be careful of that, too. But that it should be better and clear, I agree with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u269	Do you have any further questions from Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u270	No. I'll be back later, but not on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u271	Good. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you for doing something there. I look forward to answering those parliamentary questions. With the survivor's pension, I had asked one additional question. I asked whether, in the case of conversion, the collective entry which the Minister mentioned earlier, it is being applied in such a way that, at least by default, coverage over the years behind is properly regulated. Otherwise, you'll have 40 or 50 years of transition problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u273	Mr Slootweg tabled a motion on this matter in the course of the examination of the own-initiative paper. Yeah, sure, we're gonna do that. I am going to read it out: "When drawing up the new contract, I will ensure that special attention is paid to the way in which the already accumulated survivor's pension can be transferred."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u274	Yeah, but a little more precise. In certain schemes, there was nothing built up, but there was risk cover. It is intended that, however it is arranged, those people will not be covered by half a survivor's pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u275	This is part of the standardisation in the Foundation of the Labour Pathway. It could be risk-based. It could be on a capital-building basis. That needs to be taken into account in that transition. I don't know exactly what advice that's gonna get. I know that different variants are being looked at by the employers, the employees and the foundation. We have, of course, also taken note of your note on this matter. Depending on the advice, we will take this into account in the elaboration of the contract. So it has our attention. At the same time, it is quite complicated, because of course some funds are risk-based and others... That's gonna be more complicated, I'll say. The whole subject is pretty complicated. Mr Van Raan had asked whether I think that pension funds are mainly there for our future or for our people. Mr Van Raan rightly pointed out that more attention should be paid to the importance of sustainability. That was one of the reasons why in December, just before an FNV protest event, I signed a covenant here in Nieuwspoort with the large 80 pension funds about more socially responsible investments. It's really going the right way. Impressive results have been achieved. I have also indicated in my letter that I am also saying in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg, that it is being considered whether it is possible for people to opt for a greener pension. I know that Mr Van Weyenberg's initiative is still there. Mr Van Raan can therefore be reassured: attention is paid to this point. Then I come to the block of calculus Dijsselbloem, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u276	Oh, is that a separate block, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u277	No, it's part of each other. I shall begin with the Commission's Parameters. Mr Dijsselbloem was President of the Commission Parameters. An independent committee is set up every five years to advise on the parameters of the pension system. So it's about equity return, the scenario set and the approach to longer-term interest rates. That's about the UFR, the Ultimate Forward Rate. That happens once every five years. This is input for pension funds for the coming years. It's about the parameters they can count with. In January I asked for advice from that committee, consisting of Mr Dijsselbloem plus six professors of econometrics, economics and 'pension deskundology'. That was his own two separate trajectories. This is just regular work, which happens once every five years. We also had a discussion about modernising the pension system. It's an independent committee. I have had no influence on the planning and preparation of the advice. It's just an independent committee that gives scientific advice on that. The committee has fulfilled its mandate to reflect the current and future economic reality as well as possible. This economic reality does not change by agreeing another contract or adjusting the distribution rules. That is what Mr Dijsselbloem himself writes in his letter to the opinion of the Commission Parameters. I believe that Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg were also talking about this: interest rates are very low. We'll just see that outside, I'll say. For the new contract, the advice is also relevant, but to a lesser extent than for the current contract. Reduction of premiums, recovery plans, rules for indexation then play less or no role. You should also distinguish between the two contracts included in the draft ESC opinion. In one contract, the individual contract, there is actually no calculation rate, because it is a projection efficiency in the construction phase. There is only an interest rate at the benefit stage when the money goes to a collectivity. In the other contract, the new contract, the more collective contract, a distribution rule is needed to distribute the pot of money among the participants. On the other hand, there are fewer buffers in that new contract and therefore no minimum required power. This makes the opinion less relevant to that contract. In the ESC opinion and in the pension agreement with the Cabinet, it was agreed that pension liabilities would continue to be valued on the basis of risk-free market interest rates, including the UFR method. It is established by DNB on the basis of the opinion of the Independent Commission Parameters. In this way it remains solidarity between young and old, as Mr Asscher pointed out in his first term. I see Mr Baudet at the interrupting microphone, but shall I finish this first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u278	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u279	Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Kent and Mr Azarkan asked whether the Commission's opinion on Parameters applied or not to the new system. Pension liabilities under the new SER contract, the new contract, the more collective contract, are also valued on the basis of risk-free market interest rates, including the UFR method. That is what we agreed on in the draft SER opinion and in the cabinet letter. The UFR method has been specifically developed to approach risk-free long-term interest rates as close as possible, as there is no reliable market information for this maturity. In other words, there is no market information on the interest rate between 30 and 60 years. The Parameters Committee advises on the UFR method. That makes it relevant to the new contract. The starting point of the new contract remains that uncertain returns can only be used to increase pension benefits once these returns have actually been realised. That's from the point of view of prudence. Mr Azarkan or Mrs Van Brenk just asked about the buffer versus the calculation rate. The buffer lapses and the arithmetic interest rate is prudent from the point of view of Mr Van Weyenberg said it was more windfall than disappointments. What we did agree with each other, you have heard Mr Busker, Mr Elzinga and everyone repeat his goals last week. These are objectives that need to be met when it comes to indexing, when it comes to connecting to the modern labour market and compensation for the abolition of the average system. We have agreed on that steering committee. As you have already noticed this evening, there are so many variables that affect the design of new contracts that we are also going to involve the supervisor, independent scientists and the big pension executives. How are you supposed to do that in a sensible way to achieve the goals? Specifically, this is about the stability of the system. This also has to do with the volatility of the liabilities arising from the accounting rate. Maybe we can catch and shape that in a different way. I would like to emphasise that economic reality does not change if we change pension contracts. This is also stated in the letter of the President of the Commission's Parameters attached to the opinion. But we have to achieve the goals together. So we're going to involve a lot of independent external scientists and pension practitioners in the elaboration of the contracts to bring the goals together. All the questions are open there, but we have made agreements with each other. In this connection, Mr Klaver asked: how much additional discount is being discussed because of the opinion of the Commission Parameters? How many participants is it and how does the Minister deal with this? The opinion of the Commission Parameters has been taken over by myself, as regards the expected equity returns and scenario set, as well as by DNB, when it comes to the UFR. We have said, of course, that the new UFR does not go into 1-1-2021, and that the new parameters on my side, so to speak, go into 1-1200, because next year's premiums can still be counted on the proposal of the old Commission Parameters. In an impact study, the Committee calculated an average impact of its overall advice, i.e. the combination of parameters, the scenario set and the UFR, of 2.5 percentage points of coverage. She also calculated the critical levels of coverage for others as a result of the advice. The effects of specific funds are not known. These depend on the current level of coverage, the composition of the pool of participants, young versus old.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But it doesn't go in until 1-1-2021. Mr Eppo Bruins asked me if there is still time for adjustments. I meant that it doesn't start until 1-1-2021 and that the impact on coverage rates or premiums will not be relevant for another year and a half. The social partners at the retirement table, in that reality, still have time to deal with it. That's what I meant by that. Mr Omtzigt said that if interest rates remain at 0% or lower, any capital-covered system is in difficulty. He asked the government to share that view. Yeah, I'll share that. We have, of course, agreed on a very nice system, namely a part of the pay-as-you-go system, the AOW, and a part of the capital-as-you-go system in the second pillar, precisely in order to cope with different risks, such as demographic risks and inflation risks. One is easier to cope with by means of a pay-as-you-go system and the other is easier to cope with by means of a funded system. But if the interest rate stays zero for a very long time, we all have a problem in a capital-covered system. I agree with Mr Omtzigt. At the same time, there is the question: how do you deal with the 1,500 billion we have built together? Of course, this question remains relevant for the distribution of the 1,500 billion among all participants. I have answered Mr Bruins' questions. Mrs Van Brenk asked: have international experts been involved in the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission? Yes. I'm referring to the report. The annex contains a justification, questionnaires and an overview of who has been spoken to. This is set out in the annex to the Commission's report Parameters, which is on the website. This was what I had to say about the interest rate and the Dijsselbloem Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u280	You were before, Mr. Baudet. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u281	The tax administration assumes a fictitious return of 5.6% for investors with a capital of more than 1 million. This means that the tax authorities assume that people who invest an amount greater than EUR 1 million will always earn a return of 5.6%, while you and the pension funds now want to rely on the fictitious low accounting rate of 1% and even lower. That's what Draghi says, and so on. Who's right? Surely it cannot be the case that the government says on the one hand that pension funds should be based on a maximum of 1% return, and on the other hand that they tax all private investors in the Netherlands at 5.6%? Who's right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u282	I think it's two separate issues. One's next. For example, in the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission on parameters, an opinion is also given on the expected return on shares. That's 5.8%, in my mind. That is also the Commission's input Parameters for pension funds. They can count on that in the years to come. That's the part we just talked about. Something else is the valuation of the liability on the pension balance sheet. In 2003, we agreed that the left and right sides of the pension balance sheet would be valued in the same way, namely at market interest rates. The value of the assets of the pension funds is thus valued at market value. It is simply read from the stock exchange prices, from the valuations that you can objectively observe. On the other hand, the liabilities are also based on market value. That also has a substantive relationship, see what happened yesterday. Mr Draghi had said something which reduced interest rates, but at the same time the assets of the pension funds, the stock exchanges went up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u283	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u284	But that does not mean that pension funds have suddenly become richer. They have more possessions, but they also have more obligations, because that interest rate has fallen. Therefore, it is good to value both sides of the balance sheet at market value. This is completely separate from the debate on actual returns. This again depends on the question of how quickly you can pay out returns to your participants as a pension fund. That is why we said in the pension agreement that we no longer want to work with those buffers, but that we want to distribute the returns that are achieved more quickly to the participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u285	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u286	I like it so much, Mr. Chairman, I can talk about it for hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u287	Yeah, I see it. That's why I started squeaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u288	So it is three separate discussions that are mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u289	Yes. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u290	However, on this point. You have to strike out obligations and returns and so on: all true. Of course, you have to count honestly, and so on. But the point is that we have an interest rate that is very low. If you look at our surrounding countries, but also if you look at what has been a real return over all these years, it is just much higher. It can't be that it's just sitting so low, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u291	But there's a big difference between the interest rate that makes you appreciate the liabilities and the returns that are achieved. Those are just two separate discussions. According to Mercer's comparison, the Netherlands and Denmark have the best pension systems in the world; I have recently sent an overview to the Chamber. What do the Netherlands and Denmark count on? With a very low discount rate. Of course, that's not for nothing. That's because we just have a very good pension system, because we're prudent, because we're careful. That's why we've been number one or number two in that equation for years. I agree, that is also part of the pension agreement, that if returns are realised in a pension fund, we really want to make it possible for those returns to be paid out to the participants more quickly. That goes to the pensioners but also to the workers. That's why we're abolishing the buffers. The downside is that if it's worse, you short faster. That is simply the reality. But it does mean that you have fewer buffers in the system than we have in the current contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u292	One more thing, then. Pieter Ommzigt asked for the long stay close to the zero line when it comes to interest. Do you agree that in the long term this will be detrimental to any capital-driven pension system? If you don't have a pay-as-you-go system, it's actually untenable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u293	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u294	Does this mean that you are also daring to say that if the ECB's current monetary policy continues and the Netherlands continues to follow it, pension funds are likely to evaporate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u295	Here's what I'm gonna do for you. If you look at the evolution of interest rates over the past 30 years, you actually see a kind of systematic decline in interest rates. This has to do with global savings surpluses. But it also has to do with demographic developments; there are more and more people who are older and who have saved more. So there's a savings surplus worldwide. If you look at what has happened recently in QE, quantitative easing, not only by the European Central Bank but also by the Bank of Japan, the Bank of England, the Federal Reserve, you will see what effect it has had on the level of interest. But if you look back a little longer, you'll see a structural decline in interest rates as a result of those demographic developments and savings surpluses. So it goes far too far to say that thanks to the ECB interest rates are so low. If you look back a little longer, it's just not the situation. What is true is that, of course, QE has given it a boost, not only in Europe, but throughout the world. On the other hand, this is exactly why I am using this balance sheet of pension funds, which has also had a positive effect on stock prices and bond prices. This is part of the return that pension funds have made. This has nothing to do with real returns, but this has to do with artificial returns that are realised on the financial markets by the fall in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u296	But I would just like to make one point. 'Cause I really don't agree with this. Of course, it is true that the Fed also has a certain QE policy, so there are very low interest rates there. That's true. But you cannot say: oh, but that is a global trend and so the euro is negligible. It is true that the euro is an artificial constellation of northern and southern economies, where in the south there is simply a completely different relationship between private debt and public debt and so on, and that this includes a different monetary policy. What the ECB is doing now is monetary policy that belongs to economies such as in southern Europe and is not well equipped, not equipped to economies such as in northern Europe. You can't deny that. You can say: look, in Japan they do things too. We may or may not agree with that. But if we had just had the guilder, Germany the D-mark and so on, there is no way that we would have had the kind of monetary policy that Draghi is now running from Frankfurt. You'll have to agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u297	No, I disagree. Let me say in fact that before the ECB had policy for monetary expansion, which was already done by the Federal Reserve, by the Bank of England, by the Bank of Japan...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u298	That doesn't mean anything. You can't say: oh, because it happened in Japan, it would have happened in Germany and in the Netherlands. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u299	Mr President, this is the debate on pensions and not on monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u300	Exactly. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u301	No, but it is relevant in that sense that some of the problems have arisen because the interest rate is so very low because Draghi is trying to save Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u302	But it's about the pension agreement. Everything has to do with everything, but I really want to limit it to the subject we're talking about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u303	My point would be that interest rates have been falling structurally for 30 years. You are right: the other day a little bit has been added as a result of monetary policy. But he's been systematically down over the past 30 years, so the low-interest environment is a fact. This has to do with demographic factors, savings surpluses and other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u304	Okay. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u305	This low interest rate also has to do with the ECB's buy-back policy, which in turn has to do with maintaining the euro, so in that respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u306	Oh, now you start again, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u307	Well, if the two gentlemen with a glass of cognac and a cigar are somewhere in a room, then I think they can come a nice long way together. They'll both have a lot of fun with that. But it is true that the interest rates these pension funds have to count on have been manipulated. My question concerns the following: the Dijsselbloem Committee. It's been a while since that's been discussed. Do I understand that what the Dijsselbloem Commission has advised and what you have taken over directly will apply to the new contract, on the understanding that the level of cover, i.e. the financial position of pension funds, will be reduced by about 2.5% on average and that the limit at which indexation is possible will increase by about 6.5%? Does this advice indeed affect what was agreed in the pension agreement on that new contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u308	We need to distinguish between the current contract and the new contract. Of course, the Dijsselbloem Commission has an impact on the current contract, on the recovery periods, on the critical levels of coverage, on all those parts and parameters. In the new contract, that advice is less relevant. I just tried to break up why. In one contract, i.e. the Improved Premium Scheme Contract, there is no longer a collective pot. We're talking about individual construction. Then you don't charge a calculus rate anymore, but then you're talking about projection efficiency, I'll say. It remains relevant for the benefit phase, because that is where you have to divide the obligations of the beneficiaries. In the new contract it also remains relevant, because you have to calculate the liabilities or contingent claims between the participants. What I have said, which is also part of the agreements we have made with social partners, is: yes, in the draft opinion SER and also in the cabinet letter we have assumed an RTS plus UFR, but we have agreed with each other that we will look in the steering committee to see how we are going to achieve those goals. Let me take an example. The stability of the structure is, of course, a very relevant point. We should look into that in the steering committee: how are you going to do that? Ingrowth cost-covering premiums, the lifecycle investment policy, all those buttons I just mentioned; how are you gonna set it up? The point remains that the Dijsselbloem Committee advises on the economic reality and on the parameters of pension funds. Of course, they will also continue to exist. The impact of this will be different in the new pension contract. That is also part of the work to be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u309	I understand all that, but that means that the statement that the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Committee has no effect on the schemes as agreed in the pension agreement is incorrect. Does that also mean that with Mr Asscher I had at the beginning an interruption debate on the steering committee which will soon be able to say 'we want to be able to appreciate our assets in another way, so we want to count on a different way, we want these accounting rules to look different', which means that we need to get a new opinion or that there are other accounting rules against which they can appreciate the assets?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u310	We're gonna have to take some things apart. Yes, the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Committee has an effect on the levels of coverage; that is true. At the same time, we should not exaggerate. What happened in May I have said a few times in interviews on the financial markets as a result of the trade war between Trump and China has had a greater effect on the levels of coverage than the whole advice of the Dijsselbloem Commission. That's one. Two: I have just tried to outline that in the new contracts there is still a calculation rate to be applied on components, but not on other parts, or that it is less relevant there. We no longer have such a critical level of coverage in the new system, nor in the new contract, because we no longer work with those mandatory buffers. That part of the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission is no longer relevant to the new system. What the parameters of the system are is relevant. This concerns expected equity returns and the determination of the cost security of the premium. Well, that's relevant. What is more important to me is that I also heard the trade unions and employers say in their response last week that in the new system we have agreed targets for both contracts. Underneath, there are a lot of instruments. We are going to use all these instruments to map how we can achieve those goals. Then we are talking about bringing indexing closer to the modern labour market, compensation for the abolition of the average systematic and a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u311	I'm trying to ask short questions, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u312	But yes, it's complicated matter. The Prime Minister's been gone a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u313	I thought, no one...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u314	You'll find out now. His presence was appreciated, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u315	Good. A short question and a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u316	I can conclude, therefore: yes, the Dijsselbloem Committee has an effect on the agreements made in the pension agreement and the results of the calculations that will be made, especially in that new contract, and yes, also in that new contract assets will have to be valued, and that will have to be done in accordance with the Dijsselbloem Committee. Or can the steering group say that we are not doing so and we want to do so in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u317	In the draft SER opinion, as well as in my cabinet letter, we agreed that we should use the RTS and the UFR when we value commitments. The UFR is established once every five years by an independent scientific committee. We've established that with each other. At the same time, we have established that we want to achieve our goals, the goals we have agreed with each other, and that we are trying to identify the goals with the supervisor, with the external experts and with the pension practitioners. Again, I think it is wise to reason from the economic reality and not to shift money between generations. But I do think that in the new system we should also achieve the goals together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u318	Then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u319	I would like an answer to my question: can the steering committee deviate from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u320	That was the question. The answer to that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u321	The steering committee has yet to be installed. The steering committee has yet to meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u322	But does the steering committee have the room to deviate from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u323	That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u324	The Steering Committee will work together to develop the contract. If the steering committee doesn't come out, they're gonna report to me in cooperation with the presidents of the unions and the employers. But we're gonna start with this in the next few days. I am not going to anticipate that; we have to do this neatly and calmly with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u325	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u326	But in the chord we read...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u327	No, Mr. Van Kent!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u328	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I'd still like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u329	But he gave it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u330	For in the agreement we read that only that absolutely risk-free interest rate can be counted. Mr Asscher indicated that there is room there. And the minister says, "I can't say anything about it yet." What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u331	I did not hear Mr Asscher say that in his first term, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u332	But the steering committee would be there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u333	Mr. Van Kent!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u334	The Steering Committee can, with independent experts, pension administrators and supervisors, consider the tools we can use to achieve the goals. That's what we agreed on in the contract. This is also stated in Mrs Hamer's draft opinion. We're gonna start working on it soon. I'm looking forward to it, because I really like it. Then we'll work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u335	I am actually in the same confusion as Mr Van Kent. Fortunately, the Minister says very clearly and clearly: yes, that risk-free market interest rate, and yes, the parameters of the Dijsselbloem Commission. But I actually heard Mr.Tuur Elzinga of the FNV say: no, this has no effect on construction. So now I'm confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u336	Construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u337	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u338	I can't quite see that. In my opinion, the pension fund for construction has a coverage rate of 117%...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u339	No, at Pauw's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u340	Oh, by Pauw!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u341	It sounds almost the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u342	I thought, "The construction"? What do we have with the construction? Sorry, at Pauw's. I don't think I've seen that. But what did he say at Pauw?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u343	He said this would have no effect on the pension agreement. And now I hear from you: "No, it certainly does. We're gonna do the math. It means 2.5 point on the coverage level. It also affects the premium." So...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u344	The impact on the level of coverage relates to the current system. This concerns the current nftk agreements. If we go to a new contract, we have a different situation. I've just explained on several parts why that's different. At the same time, I still think that this is what we have agreed with each other, namely that we should assume a risk-free interest rate. This is stated in the draft opinion of the ESC and in my cabinet letter. I also said that we should meet the goals together. I understand one of the concerns of the trade union movement: how stable is the new contract in the construction phase? That's what we're gonna discuss with each other in the steering committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u345	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u346	Perhaps then the Minister could comment on the effects that this has on the pension premium that will be paid in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u347	It's a matter of fact. At present, a lot of funds have to do with a premium coverage rate below 100%. In other words, the premium is actually too low. That can't be long. The premiums must be adapted to reality. That could mean different things. It may be that the premium should be raised and it may also be that the ambition should be changed. This is at the collective agreement parties at the pension tables of employers and employees. The re-evaluation of the parameters of the Dijsselbloem Commission also influences these kinds of discussions at the collective bargaining tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u348	It sounds very simple: either the premium up or the ambition down. It just means there's been a deterioration of the contract, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u349	That's what Mr Van Rooijen used to say to me. I note that for the past two or three years there have been levels of contribution coverage of 70%, 75% or 80%, in other words that the contribution is too low for the corresponding pension structure. This is at the expense of the level of coverage and the indexing perspective of pensioners. Mr Van Rooijen was always very angry about that. I said that I thought Mr Van Rooijen was right about that, because that was not a generation-balance either. It will have to adapt to reality. Some funds have already done so by increasing premiums in recent years. I remember that ABP already calculates within the new parameters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u350	If the interest rate stays zero for a long time, we'll all have a problem. The Minister admits that the system is actually unsustainable. That is a very strong statement on a system of 1,400 billion to 1,500 billion. It has everything to do with the ECB's "long-low" policy. On what point is the government going to take a position on the ECB's policy because it is so exhausting our pension system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u351	The European Central Bank is an independent organisation. We have given a mandate to operate independently, given the inflation target. Mr Klaas Knot, President of DNB, is there in the governing council. It would be very unwise for politics to interfere with monetary policy. That's what I think. Fortunately, we have a separation of powers, a separation of responsibilities in this matter. Apart from that, you can see that if you are in a long-term low-interest environment, you certainly have a problem with a funded pension system. This is without prejudice to the fact that we have saved 1,500 billion together and that we need rules to distribute it neatly among all participants. But the ECB is independent and I am committed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u352	The ECB is independent and that independence was meant to fix interest rates and not for politicians who think at the last minute: hey, I want low interest rates, a little extra growth and stuff like that. This independence was never really meant by the Maastricht Treaty to set up a programme to buy up thousands of billions of Italian and other sovereign debt and to make other countries jointly responsible for it. That was explicitly excluded. Monetary funding was excluded, but we were given it de facto anyway. So the question is: is there any point in the Dutch Government's view that something can be said about the European Central Bank? Or can the European Central Bank, so to speak, buy up 100% of the sovereign debt of all countries and still not like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u353	I just need to remember my previous role as financial spokesman on this point. A number of times, the European Court of Justice has looked at whether the ECB remains within the mandate. So far, it has always been concluded that the ECB remains within the mandate. It does not suit me as a member of the Dutch cabinet to have an opinion on such an important independent body as the European Central Bank. It is not for nothing that we have put monetary policy not in the hands of politicians, but in the hands of central bankers. And I'm attached to that division of roles. We have to deal with the consequences for both the housing market and pensions, but that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u354	So if the ECB decided to buy, instead of a maximum of one third of the sovereign debt, Italy's entire sovereign debt, then that is monetary policy, and yet the Dutch government does not officially like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u355	One: the Dutch government doesn't like that, but I think it is, but I really should ask the Minister of Finance, that there is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u356	This debate is about the pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u357	... limits are at what monetary financing or buying up from the secondary market. But you're asking over my technical knowledge now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u358	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt. You were already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u359	If you give me another opportunity, I am happy to take advantage of it and I am going to make a comment on what you were doing. We are going to the heart of the pension system here. No funded pension system is available at a long-term interest rate of 0%. Then we can reform what we want here, but then we have a total erosion of the value of the pension. A ten-year state loan is now to be invested in the Netherlands. So I'm asking the government to tackle that point in the road map once, so somewhere in the road map, put a point where we can see what happens when we're ten years... Then we can disagree whether you can intervene or not, but it does have a meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u360	Let me summarize the consequences of a long-term low interest rate on a funded pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u361	Yes, and at least how it is taken into account in the new and old systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u362	I'm just trying to figure out how to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u363	Otherwise, you will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u364	Still, about that artificially keeping interest low. Of course, the buy-back programme, the QE programme, plays a very important role in creating the surplus of money. And that of course has a lot of positive consequences for the Dutch economy and for a part of the Dutch, especially for the group that has capital in the form of its own home and has therefore taken out a loan on it. For that group, it's very interesting the way things are going. We have historically low interest rates and therefore low costs. But there is a group of pensioners who do not benefit from it. And we're organizing some of that ourselves. We organize that benefits a part and not another part of our society. Doesn't the Minister think that's unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u365	I have just said something about this at a question from Mr Van der Linden, I think. Low interest rates have a positive effect on equity and bond prices, for example. This has also made pension funds richer in recent years. The low interest rates also have a positive effect on house prices. They have increased considerably in recent years, especially in the Netherlands. In our pension system, we have a combination of a pay-as-you-go part, the AOW, and a covered part, the second pillar for a reason. This will enable us to cope with different risks: demographic risks and inflation risks. What has indeed been done in recent years by not only this cabinet, but also the previous cabinet is that the non-indexation was partly offset by the increase in the AOW, which was indexed, but also by the purchasing power decision in August by, for example, increasing the elderly discount, also in the past Tax Plan. So, yes, there are effects. They are also included in the purchasing power picture in the August decision-making process. In recent years there has also been regular attention to the fact that pensions have not been indexed. That's why they were compensated, for example through the elderly discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u366	But we can't explain this to people, can we? Once again, they see that over the past 15 years, ABP has achieved 6.6% in return, but their purchasing power has decreased by almost 18% to 20%. Then you cannot say: yes, but you are compensated elsewhere because you still have your own home and because you are guilty? This certainly does not apply to all pensioners. Somehow that doesn't go well this way, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u367	No. I have tried to explain that there are two sides to the pension balance, the assets and the liabilities. Yes, the returns have been high in recent years, but that is partly due to the fact that interest rates have fallen. As a result, the liabilities of pension funds have increased significantly. This results in a level of coverage that doesn't rise much. Those are two separate discussions, I'll say. What we are making possible with the new pension agreement is that returns realised by pension funds can be distributed to members more quickly. That is not only the pensioners, but also the workers. That is precisely because we want to do justice to the discontent on this point. We want to move faster with economic reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u368	Good. There's been a lot of interruptions. I know that there are a lot of answers to be given in the event of interruptions. I actually want to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u369	I still have a block about self-employed people. I have a very short block of AOW. Then there will be sustainable employability and the follow-up process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u370	We also have a debate tonight on the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u371	Yeah, we're gonna go on for a long time. So we're gonna work a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u372	Good. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u373	In the agreement we made an agreement about self-employed people. The cabinet considers it important that more self-employed people start to build up pensions. For this reason, several measures have been introduced which make it easier forzzp's to build up supplementary pensions voluntarily. The cabinet expects that various measures, such as extra fiscal space, Mr Van Weyenberg said that even though the possibility of starting a second pillar product, will lead to more retirement for the self-employed. In addition, the social partners and the cabinet agreed that there would be a statutory insurance obligation for self-employed persons against the risk of incapacity for work. The purpose of this insurance obligation is to protect, in addition to existing employee insurance, other workers against the consequences of incapacity for work and to ensure that everyone can insure themselves. That was also a point made by Mr Van Weyenberg: many people cannot be assured now. This also fits in with the wider desire of the cabinet to work towards a situation in which the form of work and work are not determined by institutions and costs, but rather by the nature of the work that needs to be done. Compulsory insurance also reduces the transfer of costs and risks to society. It has often not been mentioned, but I would like to emphasise it here: the government is asking the social partners, in consultation with thezzp organisations, to draw up and explain, at the beginning of 2020, a feasible and EMU balance-neutral proposal that is affordable and accessible to all. This must therefore include affordable premiums and acceptance, with a view to a cabinet proposal for the summer of 2020. In doing so, the Cabinet also asks whether it is reasonable and practicable to apply an exception to this obligation if, for example, there are more appropriate arrangements. I think Mr Stoffer asked a question about that. I'll answer that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u374	I do want you to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u375	I'll finish the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u376	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u377	Mr Klaver asked how I look at the zzp-aov-elaboration. aov stands for disability insurance. There will be a statutory insurance obligation against the risk of incapacity for work. So we have really invested in the social partners in consultation withzzp-organisations, with a number of framework conditions. We want to give the partners the opportunity to come up with an opinion on this. Mr Van der Linde asked whether there was any support from self-employed organisations for statutory insurance obligations and how I would do that. So we have agreements that, in addition to employers' and employees' organisations, organisations such aszzp are also involved in the elaboration. On the basis of the proposal, I will come to your Chamber with a cabinet proposal. I've got two more points in this block. Mr Stoffer asked for the more appropriate arrangements for which there would be an exception to statutory insurance obligations. In the agreement, as an example of the exception, we mentioned that there are 'better appropriate arrangements', such as in the agricultural sector. It is, for example, about the fact that agricultural entrepreneurs have a kind of insurance whereby a person who becomes disabled or ill gets a manager who continues the business. That's often a capital-intensive company, with stables, et cetera. Someone is then flown in to carry out the work. That's a very good fit for a sector like this. You also have other examples, such as bread funds. These are generally funds that cover the risk of illness, and often not the risk of disability for a longer period of time. It's only about the first two or four years. AO insurance covers the whole period up to the retirement age. There really is a distinction in that. Just as formalistic, I am not going to sit in the chair of the social partners and thezzp organisations. We've asked for advice, and they've taken it. At the beginning of 2020, the proposal must be presented. I'm waiting for that with a lot of interest. Mr Stoffer has also asked me whether I take into account mood stimulants. Yes, we are going to take that into account in the tradition of Dutch social security legislation. That will seem familiar to Mr Stoffer. This is it, Mr. Chairman, as far as this block is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u378	The Minister will recognize that the aov forzzp'ers is an important point for my party and that its implementation is closely listened to. I understand very well that we are not going to talk today about exactly what we are going to ensure and how we are going to shape it. But I still want it sharp. Thezzp organisations are involved. My question was whether I can explain this in such a way that there is support and the solution is supported by these organisations. That is the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u379	I hope so, of course. But that's the same thing as saying in advance: you have to advise me and you're coming out. I hope that the social partners will come forward with a good proposal at the beginning of 2020 in consultation and in cooperation with thezzp organisations. I just can't force the parties. I hope that there will be broad support and some compromise between the parties that are going to table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u380	Then we'll get to the follow-up. There's a sensitivity in it. I just said that we have no misunderstandings about someone who is on a scaffolding and who is a breadwinner at home: he has to be able to insure himself and want to insure himself. But what do you do with people who are employed three days a week and who have actually arranged everything? The pension agreement states: for example, if there are more appropriate arrangements. May I explain that in such a way that there may also be other grounds on which you can ignore the insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u381	Yes. But you're actually asking two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u382	Yeah, that's enough. That's the right answer for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u383	There are people who are employed and who are insured there and who also work as zzp'ers. There are people who occasionally take an assignment as a zzp'er. I tend to go ahead and fill that out, but I don't want to do that. I want to give the partners the room to work that out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u384	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u385	It's obvious that you're looking at that closely. That is why these more appropriate arrangements are also explicitly included in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u386	Finally, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u387	What you have just said, I will list for myself, because those are texts that help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u388	For my group, this is also something we can see in the light of a broader debate on the position of workers. I also saw a petition from the Work Association. I read in the documents that part of this can also be about people who are not yet covered by employee insurance. So it's a broader group than justzzp'ers. Affordability is very important, as is the obligation to accept. In the current system there are a number of weaknesses, such as excluding people who, for example, once had a spot somewhere. Unless they suddenly have to pay a lot more premium. Does the Minister agree with me that that is not what is now being considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u389	I have to make a disclaimer about this, because I have asked for advice from the social partners and thezzp organisations. But it is obvious that, when it comes to compulsory insurance, this also entails an acceptance obligation. Otherwise, you can't have compulsory insurance. The question then is how do you do that, but I will be advised on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u390	Sure. But in such a system, where the idea is that by doing it together the premium can stay low, it does not fit that you are going to differentiate in premium and Mr Van Weyenberg therefore has to pay twice as much premium because he has ever had RSI. I do not think that would fit into a system with an acceptance obligation and affordable premiums. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u391	Insurance technically, I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg, especially when you talk about compulsory insurance. This is also one of the problems we are facing today: some people want to be insured, but cannot be insured or only at very high costs. I have had a regular debate on this with your Chamber. But I'm being properly advised by the social partners and thezzp organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u392	With this document in the agreement, we were pleased: the document in which the Minister states that he is responsible for having a legislative proposal before the summer next year. Of course, this is a consultative obligation, but that is something other than an agreement that needs to be concluded. There's gonna be an opinion, and the minister's gonna weigh it. He then comes to the Chamber with a proposal that we will then weigh again. Can the Minister confirm that route has been agreed as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u393	In the cabinet letter I wrote that I would come forward with a cabinet proposal before the summer. I am indeed trying to draw up a legislative proposal as soon as possible. The point is that at the beginning of 2020 there should be an opinion from social partners andzzp organisations. I hope, of course, that this is a broad advice and that we can proceed very quickly. It may not be and then we should continue to move forward, but with a view to a cabinet proposal for the summer, or as soon as possible, that we can transpose into legislation. You want to be able to debate the choices with your Chamber. Then we'll have a consultative bill soon afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u394	I understand that point. I think it is important to stress that this is an opinion and not an agreement on this issue. Those are really two different things. Just now, in an interrupting debate, it was a matter of 'agreement' for all parties. But no, it is the responsibility of the cabinet, and advice is requested from all relevant parties. My question is also about implementation. In the end, the Minister will be advised on this. As far as we are concerned, this is going to be a public performance. Can the Minister go into the way he looks at that? What opportunities does he see for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u395	On Mr Klaver's first point, it is true that it is an opinion request. Mr Van der Linde has just said quite explicitly: I hope there will be support for it inzzp organisations. I hope so too, because we'll hit two birds with one stone. On the second point: I do not think it is appropriate to say something about implementation at the moment. I hear all kinds of rumors and stories in the media. I also read an interview with someone from the Insurance Association who said something about this. It's obvious that I'm gonna take my beak off and wait for the advice, and in the meantime think about how I can do all this in a good way with an acceptance obligation and compulsory insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u396	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u397	I come to sustainable employability and heavy professions. That is an important part of the agreement. Too many people do not get their pensions in good health and we all know the examples of the street maker, the construction worker and the people in health care and the police. It has been discussed for years and has been tried for years to distinguish between what is or is not a heavy occupation. We haven't been able to do that twice. With this pension agreement, we have finally been able to make good agreements. In any case, we are going to invest heavily in sustainable employability. For four years, we are making EUR 200 million available, including for the social partners. This gives us a kick-off, or a kick-off, for a multi-annual integrated investment programme, together with employers and employees. It will be a very strong kick-off, so that employers and employees, assisted by the government, can really get started with the commitment to sustainable employability. This can mean, for example, that employers will invest more in workers' health, but also that they will adapt the work or that workers will learn new skills and develop for a lifetime. We want to work together as a government with employers and employees so that we can learn from each other, share good examples and take this discussion a step further. Because there is no single approach to sustainable employability. Different industries and different companies require different approaches. In the end, I think it is important for employers and workers to find it the most normal thing in the world to think in good time about how they achieve their retirement age. How can they continue to work well and with pleasure? In order to ensure the return of the kickstart, the Council of State has drawn attention to this, including in the opinion on the AOW which we are going to deal with below, and to maintain the focus on sustainable employability, we have made available a structural set of funds to ensure these things in the longer term. Of course, we are also working on a lifetime of development and the STEP budget, together with the Minister of OCW. Now I come to a few questions about the arrangement that has now been agreed. First of all, we are going to make better use of existing opportunities. Think of part-time pensions and generational pacts. But we're also gonna make two years of leave savings possible. In fiscal terms, this has been, for example, a focus on the police. For example, social partners can agree that you will be given extra leave if you are working on shiftwork or working on fully continuous shifts. You can save your leave to get out early. You can save 100 weeks together. We will also investigate whether it is possible to stop working after a certain number of years of service. The 45-year agreement is in the agreement. We're gonna investigate that. In addition, we have, of course, agreed for the short term that we are actually making a triple. Individual employers, employees and the public authorities all contribute to the discussion on heavy-duty professions. Employers are enabled to pay up to €19.000, i.e. gross AOW, three years before the AOW date. They will then be exempted from the RVU tax. Employees can raise their pensions. This must be agreed in collective agreements between employers and employees, so that it is indeed possible to stop working three years earlier. In addition, the social partners themselves have indicated that they want to develop the structural arrangements, namely those 45 years of service, in the coming years. Mr Van Kent's question was whether it was temporary. My letter on the agreements with the social partners also states that they want this structural solution worked out before this RVU arrangement expires. We discussed this at length at the table. Social partners would like to have the 45 years of service worked out before the five-year period for which we are making this agreement expires. I also hope that they will be able to do so together, because I would find that a very reasonable step, because it takes into account when someone started working and how many years he worked. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u398	That's it. That's it. That's it. How many questions do you have left? Mr. Van Kent, you will be given the opportunity to ask one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u399	The SGP had asked this question and Mr Van Kent had also asked this question. In the meantime, we've got that RVU. This is a temporary arrangement, but we hope to develop a structural measure with 45 years of service. Mr Klaver had an explicit question: how do we ensure that police officers and other employees in the government are also enabled to quit earlier? Employers and employees in the public sector have the same opportunity as the market sector. There is a tax facility, early retirement tax, RVU tax. They're paying for the police and the DOD right now. They can also make use of the 800 million available. This is explicit for sustainable employability. Police and health care are also eligible to make use of this. I am sure that the police unions, for example Gerrit van de Kamp van de ACP, one of the presidents of the police unions, will certainly do their best to settle this properly at the collective bargaining table. Period. How do we prevent us from getting a new E.T.A.? That was a question from Mr Van der Linde. I agree with that. It is important that in this agreement individual employers and employees all have a financial incentive to work longer. Thus it is a generic scheme, but not a generic scheme to leave earlier, because an employer pays part of it, namely the gross AOW, and the employee also pays part of it to bring his pension share forward. That is really different from the old Vulnerable Scheme where people were paid, as it were, to leave. This is a fundamentally different incentive from the old VRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u400	Yes. The questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u401	The last question. Mr Van Kent asked what the level of the VRU threshold of €19.000 means. €19,000 was chosen after it had occurred in an AO a few months ago. I thank Mr Stoffer, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber, for the suggestion. There's Mr. Stoffer. We call the arrangement in the department the Stoffer Scheme. The €19.000 was chosen for the following reason. At €19.000, after deduction of tax and AOW premiums, net remains the amount equal to the AOW receiving a single person from the AOW age. In other words, the employer pays, as it were, up to three years for the AOW-age, the net AOW, which also makes it easier for an employee to draw the pension forward, without exceedingly compromising his future pension benefits. That's the arrangement. A common question is: what if you have a higher income? So that AOW also applies after the AOW-date. Then you have a supplementary pension that you can also pull forward for the AOW-date. Higher incomes can then also benefit from this if they have a heavy occupation. This applies, for example, to people in the harbour. A lot of people have a hard job there, but also a good income. That was the block of "heavy professions."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u402	Then I'm going to see Mr. Van Ken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u403	You just said the last question. But there are three issues that have passed. The first is about the leave days. I think they're meant to get your body repaired after night shifts and so on. Now the minister says you're gonna have to save it. That's easy. That actually means that the minister simply says to these people: figure it out for yourself; turn in your recovery days to cope with the extremely fast rising AOW age. Secondly, I have heard the Minister say something about the five-year period that is coming to an end. That's easy, because for those five years there's a very small amount of financial coverage to make that minimum scheme possible to get the €19,000 exemption from that fine. After that, I don't see any money. I see the minister now "huh?" But then I don't see any money, at least not in the letters and statements I received from this minister. So let us at least agree that the little bit that is there will continue to go on waiting for a new arrangement that will or will not come and for which there is no money yet. That is the second point I would like to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u404	How many points do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u405	Three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u406	Three, chairman, I've already announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u407	Okay, okay. I missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u408	The last point concerns the 800 million that the Minister just mentioned. It's divided over four years, so 200 million a year. It is not credible to say that you have arranged something for the public sector, not even at all. Because if you share that 200 million by the number of people who would like to make use of it, I have to say, because you continue to raise the AOW age, you will need a multiple of it. We can talk about that for a long time. Of 200 million, you can't send tens of thousands of police officers and nurses and so on with early retirement. But let's take him somewhere else. That 800 million is for four years. What do you have to offer these police officers after that, if that shitty little jar, which in no way meets what's needed, is empty? And what's going to do if that $19,000 is actually going to be paid by the police? I don't believe anything about that, because the 200 million isn't even close to what's needed. Then you say again: figure it out yourself. The policeman must say himself: I am going to bring forward my pension and I accept a lower pension for the rest of my life. In short, it is flimsy, worthless and totally non-regulating for heavy-duty professions. It is at most a scheme for people with a very high income from whom the employer wishes to dispose in an individual case. The employer says, "I'll give you that $19,000 three times."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u409	Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u410	Such a person has a high income, therefore, a high supplementary pension, which can be brought forward. But for the common man or woman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u411	Mr. Van Kent!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u412	...it's not a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u413	This is just a whole argument, isn't it? You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u414	The Minister has said a great deal and I would like to respond and ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u415	Yes, and you have said a great deal, and you also have an extensive speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u416	I can respond very briefly. Point one. Leave is at the request of social partners themselves. Two. Over the five years I have written in the letter that a structural arrangement is being drawn up by the social partners for those 45 years of service, and that it must be ready before this temporary arrangement expires. Three. "Find out for yourself" I really do not like the agreements made by employers and employees and the willingness of employers. Last week I saw Maxime Verhagen on TV, the chairman of Bouwend Nederland, who also sees that we have a social problem here. They resolve this jointly at the collective bargaining table with employers and employees. The same applies to the police, and so does many other sectors. If you don't agree or don't think it's enough, I understand all that politically, but we've made a breakthrough here with all of us...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u417	A breakthrough!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u418	A breakthrough, yes, to make this possible. I just think that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u419	You can say a lot about this, but it's really anything but a breakthrough. It is a small scheme for five years, of which only a very small group, who can pay it themselves, can use it, if they already have an employer who wants to pay it €19,000. I see the Minister shaking no now. There was also an interrupting debate about someone who works in a slaughterhouse, heavy work, with a flex contract. Will the employer, the owner of the slaughterhouse, pay three times €19,000 while competing on dimes on wage costs? Will that employee have the opportunity to bring forward his shitty pension for a few years, so he won't have enough to live on for the rest of his life?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u420	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u421	This is not a solution for the heavy-duty professions, Minister Koolmees. This is just a scam. If you tell these people "you can get out three years early," you're kidding these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u422	These are some of Mr Van Kent's hard words, and I'm used to them. It is indeed very much shouting on the sidelines. All that is allowed; I like all that. Central employers' organisations and central trade unions have agreed that they will now agree on this arrangement and fill it out at collective agreement level. For example, employers are given the opportunity to pay the net AOW without penalty. Especially for people with a lower income, that is really a big concession for that period. I think it is fair that all three parties, i.e. the government, the employer and the employee, jointly pay to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u423	I'm going to see Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u424	I don't think I'm going to convince Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u425	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u426	And neither do the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u427	I'll be very brief. I had challenged the Minister a little bit to think a little further and consider a flexible AOW age. And then, of course, I hope that people who use them to keep working a little longer and then get a slightly higher AOW benefit. Personally, I think my own parents would have loved that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u428	I've had SEO investigate that. Just before I took office, that investigation was sent to the House of Representatives by my predecessor. The analysis clearly shows that it is not really a solution for a large group of people in the Netherlands, that it is very complex in its implementation and that it brings with it strange incentives. However, I do think that people should be able to draw up a second pillar pension more easily. That is why we have devised this scheme for the heavy-duty professions. I can still advise you to read the SEO report. You can then see that there are a lot of risks involved in doing so. So I am not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u429	I'll take it back, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u430	I will go to Mr Omtzigt, but I really want to see if we can get to a conclusion on the side of the Members of Parliament, because I think the Minister is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u431	Let's talk about the steering committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u432	Maybe you'll do that first. Then I will go to Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Van Brenk and we will have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u433	Mr President, I would like to ask this question because it is not at all about the steering committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u434	Is it about the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u435	Yeah, it's about the previous point. The Minister says that this €19.000 was chosen in such a way that you can pay the net AOW. It is now stated in Article 22a (3) (a) that you may pay for 104 weeks and retain the employment discount. That saves $3,000. We are currently having a big discussion with the prison staff about this. Isn't that article just applicable here, so that people get €250 to €300 per month? I would like to do that, but I think that is the explanation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u436	I'm going to come back to this in second place, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u437	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u438	I also have something I hope the Minister can promise. 'Cause I'm really worried. It is fantastic if the social partners agree that employees can save 100 weeks together, but you also know what effects that would have if a company went bankrupt. You'll lose all your vacation days. Can the Minister offer a guarantee? If people have that large number together, it must at least be guaranteed that they will keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u439	I can't quite see that, I'm telling you the truth. When a company goes bankrupt, the employees of course become just creditors. You can think of late wages and holidays that are still open. I can't see exactly how this is in such an intervention right. I will try to get back to the follow-up process in the second term. I'm going to finish, Madam President. There are a few things left. If it's okay, when we're done on time, we're still talking about slowing down the age of AOW in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u440	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u441	As of 1 January 2021, the threshold amount for the RVU taxes for the heavy professions will be allowed to enter into force fiscally. These four times EUR 200 million will then also be made available for the heavy-duty professions. Finally, I have the ambition to have the legal framework for the overall pension review as of 1 January 2022 ready. Mr Omtzigt asked about the road map for the coming time. I'm gonna offer it. I'm gonna make arrangements with the steering committee on how to set up the process. Mr Omtzigt also asked me to say something in the roadmap about the low-interest environment and its significance for a funded pension system such as ours. I know that in the past the CPB has said something about pensions in the low-interest environment. I'm gonna look at this and I'm gonna come back to that in the road map. Mr Omtzigt asked me whether we should involve older people's organisations. Yes, I have very regular contact with representatives of youth and elderly organisations. I think that is important and I would like to keep it that way. I want to involve them in something like a sounding board. We need to talk to each other on a regular basis. I will also inform them about progress. The same applies to young people and the elderly. Finally. Mr Azarkan asked whether it was true that the members of the steering committee had a veto and could pull the emergency brake. We have agreed on a good and balanced agreement with which we can count on broad support. Indeed, there are still many questions of impact. A steering group is set up consisting of social partners and the cabinet to work out the goals, i.e.: more personal, more transparent, better match the labour market and a fair perspective on indexed pensions. Emergency brakes are already in place in the agreement. It has been agreed that the cabinet, together with the Foundation of Labour, will make a good assessment of the goals. Can the results be achieved? Before the law is passed, we'll go to the steering committee. If the steering committee does not come out, it will end up at the administrative table of myself with the presidents of the trade unions and the employers' organizations. I'm really excited to pick this up soon. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u442	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give Mr Asscher...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u443	Already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u444	Yeah, it's fast. Well, soon? I can see the AOW team sitting on the benches, so we need to make a bit of pace. Mr. Asscher, would you mind walking through? I call Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u445	Mr President, three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people are struggling to reach retirement age in good health;]] [[believes that construction workers, policemen, nurses and many others who are now doing heavy work deserve to retire earlier;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure, when developing the scheme for heavy-duty professions, that workers can also use the scheme as individuals by agreement with the employer to pay up to three years before retirement age up to at least AOW level;]] [[also calls on the government to open up the EUR 800 million for sustainable employability, through sectoral agreements, to solving bottlenecks in the realisation of schemes exempted from RVU tax three years for AOW age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that all workers deserve protection against incapacity for work because it can happen to everyone;]] [[noting that there will be a cabinet proposal by the summer of 2020 to protect all workers from incapacity for work;]] [[noting that there are many concerns among self-employed people about the affordability of the premium, in particular for low-paid self-employed persons, the accessibility of insurance and the way in which it is implemented;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the social partners and self-employed organisations to pay explicit attention to this in the development of disability insurance and to include it in the preparation of the cabinet proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the achievement of the objectives and results to be achieved in the design of pension contracts is more important than the precise means;]] [[noting that these include a generation-balanced effect, as stable a system as possible and a more favourable perspective on an indexed pension;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is to set up a steering committee to further develop the proposed pension contracts;]] [[Whereas, in order to enable the transition to a new system, it is important to achieve the objectives and the results to be achieved, while keeping room for the steering committee to achieve this in a different way;]] [[invites the government to regularly inform the Lower House of the progress and choices made by the Steering Committee in the preparation of the pension contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-458]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-459]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-460]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u446	A quick question. I want to understand the last motion very clearly, because I want to avoid giving the steering committee a sort of blank cheque to depart from the pension agreement. Can I understand the motion in such a way that you say that the steering committee remains within the lines of the pension agreement, but that if anything else happens, the Chamber will be involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u447	A brief reply from Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u448	This steering group has been given the task of monitoring these objectives within the lines of the pension agreement. We just had an extensive discussion in the first term about what they can and can do. My appeal in this motion is: give them room, because we are concerned with the goals, but involve the House of Representatives. In that sense, it is not a blank cheque, because we must be able to follow it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u449	Mr. Van der Linde, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u450	In particular, I would like to make sure that this steering group does not come up with an idea, for example, to let go of the interest rate, because then we will be back to square one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u451	Suppose the minister puts all those people in that steering group who say: interest, we don't do that, that doesn't mean anything to us. Even so, the Minister has to send it to the Chamber. So they're gonna have to agree first. The most important thing of this call is to make sure that they are not kept to the resources that we see now, but that you put the targets first, so that indexation comes into sight and you have a stable and solidarity system. So I am not saying that they can just do something, because it is about the money of all Dutch people. So it has to be done in a sensible way. But I'm saying don't let how we used to it limit you, because you're going to a new contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u452	Mr President, I know how important it is for you to conclude quickly, but this is listening closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u453	No, we're not gonna argue anymore. This is a motion the cabinet is going to respond to. In this second term, I'm going to be very strict. I'm going to see Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u454	I'm just totally assuming we're gonna stay inside the corner poles of the game, so I don't have to worry about that. I have a question about the previous motion. I heard a number of conditions for the self-employed scheme and perhaps for all workers. There are some broader texts in it; I find that an interesting thought myself. I did not hear one thing, but I have the impression that Mr Asscher agrees with me on this. Whatever would not be in the spirit of this agreement for me is if there were agreements such as: you once had a problem, so you will get a double premium, and otherwise you will not be allowed to participate. There should be no fine print with the meaning: we may not turn out. I think these are things that neither of us are thinking about. I'd like to ask you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u455	A brief answer, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u456	Very much so. That's why this is necessary. People have that experience with small print: not covered, just when you need it the most. It is precisely by sharing the risks with everyone, with all the self-employed, that you can simply get an acceptance obligation, so that people who happen to what happens are not protected for themselves. That's why I want a collective, public scheme for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u457	Thank you. Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u458	Mr. Chairman. It was a pleasure to see how happy the Minister of Social Affairs answered all the questions. I was also impressed by the Prime Minister. He was nice and short. From the Minister of Social Affairs we sometimes say: he teaches. But this started to look like a filibuster earlier, but we got through it anyway. Mr President, I have three motions to which I am right. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government finds the current size of the white spot worrying and therefore wants to find solutions to this problem with the help of the social partners prior to the introduction of a new pension system;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for temporary workers to have to wait six months to build up their pension while regular workers have a waiting period of up to two months;]] [[Whereas a study is currently being carried out by the social partners to determine the impact of shortening the waiting time in the broadcasting sector;]] [[calls on the Government to send a response to the House of Representatives after this examination and to make a proposal on the waiting period in the broadcasting sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the ESC and the Cabinet indicated that a new pension system should remain European law-abiding, including compulsory provision;]] [[whereas the ESC advises the Cabinet to provide adequate assurance for this, for example at the European Commission and the Advocate General of the Court of Justice;]] [[whereas the Cabinet is in consultation with the European Commission on this matter;]] [[considers that there should be no doubt about the maintenance of the obligation when examining the legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power, including asking for independent legal advice on the sustainability of the obligation and the continuation of talks with the European Commission, in order to make it clear that the obligation is not at risk, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau (SCP) carried out useful research into a good pension in 2017;]] [[Whereas much remains to be done for the two pension contracts in the near future;]] [[considers that collectivity, solidarity, security for participants and adequate compensation for all generations are essential elements of a good pension contract;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Social and Cultural Planning Agency (SCP) for a qualitative analysis of these pension contracts for the first time for the legal treatment of the new pension contracts, taking into account the above essential elements of a good pension contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-461]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-462]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-463]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u459	Mr. Chairman. We too are impressed by the visionary and enthusiastic speech of the Prime Minister on this subject. We are less enthusiastic about the Minister's interpretation of the accounting rules, but certainly also about the regulation on the heavy professions, which is really very thin, temporary and not accessible to many people for whom it should be intended. Mr. Chairman. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue the temporary limitation of the RVU tax until a structural scheme for early retirement is in place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is a direct and indirect employer of people with a heavy occupation;]] [[calls on the Government to release sufficient funds to enable public sector employees to agree early retirement schemes in accordance with the provisions of the pension agreement, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the latest before the General Political Reviews,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Labour Foundation will come up with a plan to increase the number of people in retirement;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Labour Foundation to set out concrete objectives in this plan and to invite them to present this by the end of this year at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-464]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-465]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u460	Then the finest motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to freeze the AOW age at 66 for at least five years, to adapt the accounting rules in order to allow indexing for each generation, to remove the RVU tax for an indefinite period of time and to come forward with a proposal which will givezzp'ers the right to a good pension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u461	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u462	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer, one somewhat more extensive than the other. Above all, I am left with the fact that it is a good thing if we succeed in working together: working together in politics and working with social partners; employers with employees. The ESC has played an important role in this. I am not always a fan, but at the moment I can only say that the ESC has made a very important contribution to making this work. That's what I wanted to say here again. We have managed to work together towards a better, fairer and more personal pension. There is still a lot of work to be done, but as far as I am concerned, very clear corner posts have been placed on the playing field, with clear agreements, which of course is the devil in the detail! We have to be very precise about what has to be done. For example, it is necessary to develop contracts and to compensate for the average premium. But I continue to find the big breakthroughs: more personal pension, the average premium, more choices, and indeed some neighbouring agreements around the AOW. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion because of the great importance I attach to sustainable employability. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the pension agreement included a transitional arrangement for older workers, temporarily making it easier to stop working for up to three years for the AOW age;]] [[Whereas this is done on the basis that some of the older workers have not been able to anticipate the increase in the AOW age with investments in sustainable employability and training;]] [[Whereas, at the same time, budget is made available to ensure that, in the long term, workers invest in lifelong development and sustainable employability in order to reach the AOW age working in this way;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor and assess the impact of measures to mitigate the transition from work to retirement and to develop additional investments in sustainable employability and lifelong labour market effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van der Linde, Mr Bruins and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u464	Finally, I would like to say to the Minister: job well done, and now to the next phase. Because I think there's still a lot of work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u465	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u466	Mr. Chairman. I can only underline the latter: a job well done. But this is actually just the beginning. Sorry to wake you up with that champagne and that cake. I'm very curious about the road map. This is still a pretty long road. Tonight is going to be a quick one, let's just say, that is the easy and clear part of the agreement. The pension contract is a bit... I do not know what Mr Van Weyenberg is thinking, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the road map will address the issue of European legal sustainability. It's essential. Without guarantees, we can't move on. The survivor's pension is well paid, so that this standard is properly regulated. And we go into what happens when we get 0% interest for a long time. The CDA Group is not yet convinced that individual objections must be removed from the law, but wait carefully for the proposals. We are in a moment very curious about the Pay Tax Act. That's what long-term parliamentary questions are all about. I hope to hear from the CPB what would have happened if we had the new system for the last 40 years. That gives a very nice insight into how volatile it would have been, how quickly it would have gone up and down and how it had worked out between generations. So that's not a fictional thing, it's something that actually happened. I hope that this coffee with older people and young people will not only be drank by the Minister, but also by the steering committee, so that they will also have something to say in the steering committee about, for example, boarding and the interests of those groups. I am indeed waiting for the answer to be given to the question of ECB policy, how far we can go. That may be a little later, but it can be really devastating if it continues. Mr. Chairman. You know I've started talking about the cost of the system. It is incredibly important that they remain under control. In Australia, costs quadrupled to 30 billion a year. We really need to avoid that. So: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that some pension reforms, such as in Australia, have unintentionally increased the costs of the reform;]] [[considers that the costs of investing, managing and paying the pension should be as low as possible as this leads to higher pension benefits;]] [[Calls on the Government to conduct an independent external investigation into the implementation costs of the old and new systems and to ensure low costs in the new system, including foreign experience;]] [[calls on the Government to submit this inquiry to the Chamber before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van der Linde, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-469]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u467	That is a new kind of coalition in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u468	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u469	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u470	I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u471	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his presence and to the Minister for all the answers. It resulted in two motions for me. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the agreement in principle on the renewal of the pension system indicates that there will be a statutory insurance obligation for self-employed persons against the risk of incapacity for work;]] [[Whereas this also obliges those with a mind to take out disability insurance;]] [[Whereas various insurances are currently subject to a system for the exercise of the right to self-determination, i.e. the possibility of exempting from insurance obligations and paying a substitute tax;]] [[calls on the government to apply the exception for those who are already motivated by other insurance policies when drawing up the proposal of the compulsory social security scheme;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u472	Then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the agreement in principle on the renewal of the pension system indicates that there will be a statutory insurance obligation for self-employed persons against the risk of incapacity for work;]] [[Whereas, at present, a large proportion of workers have made alternative arrangements to cope with the consequences of possible incapacity for work;]] [[Whereas the Commission is currently investigating the functioning of the current labour market;]] [[calls on the Government, in preparing the legislative proposal, to examine the possibility of alternative obligations other than requiring disability insurance to ensure the protection of employees;]] [[Invites the Government to ask the Commission to include in its opinion the proposed obligation on employees and possible alternative obligations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-471]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u473	Mr. Chairman. Because of the Minister's answers or the lack of them, it is even more obvious that this is a terrible, terrible agreement. Bad for the Netherlands, more chance of discounts, no indexes, no start of a solution for the people with heavy professions. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the AOW age continues to rise in the concluded pension agreement and that working until the 70th becomes the new normal;]] [[Whereas the risk of reducing pensions has only increased;]] [[calls on the government to pass the pension agreement through the shredder,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-472]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u474	Mr President, one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it is of great importance to work in good health and/or to enable retraining to other jobs in the case of heavy occupations in time;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet, together with social partners, is investing in sustainable employability;]] [[Whereas facilitating longer work and ways of retraining are crucial elements for the successful and healthy use of people;]] [[considers that sectoral plans should therefore be effective for the intended purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly set out further conditions for the EUR 800 million for sustainable employability to be effective in increasing sustainable employability and to set measurable targets with social partners for the effective use of funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-473]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u475	Mr. Chairman. One of the party cory fairies of the VVD, Els Veder-Smit, handed over her library to the party last year. In that library we found the report of the VVD's Committee on Valuable Pensions from 1963. One of the starting points was that it was essential for a free society that the individual had to make his own choice. The other consideration was that social justice should make it possible to maintain as much value as possible for the provisions of the future. Well, this is a fantastic report. It's as topical as I know what. Even more so, the actuaries who contributed to this report were called Van Rooijen, but I have never encountered the word 'calculation rate'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u476	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. He was there today. I call Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u477	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I was talking about Koolmees' piece, but it seemed more like Koolmees' college tonight. I thank him very much for that. He has clearly led us along all kinds of complex issues with an improvised exhibition on monetary policy. It couldn't be tonight. Thank you very much. A bit of a joke is made that the mp would have done less, but he worked very hard last week. Because then he got Coalition-Y visiting, the youth organisations, who told him about their concerns about housing market, labour market and education. I think the Prime Minister is really inspired by those young people and they're inspired by him. My motion is therefore about young people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of employees who do not have an occupational pension has increased further in recent years;]] [[Whereas this is particularly the case for young people, and this is all the more worrying at a time when the focus of retirement is more at the beginning of the career;]] [[Whereas young people often do not sit at the table when it comes to retirement, while the subject is of particular concern to them and decisions now have an impact on their future;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the Foundation of Labour, to come up with solutions to reduce the size of the white stain;]] [[calls on the Government to involve youth organisations in this issue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-474]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u478	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the softer pension commitment of the new pension contract does not necessarily require a risk-free calculation rate for pension fund liabilities;]] [[invites the Government to submit to an independent broad scientific test the applicability of the risk-free calculation rate for pension funds for the new pension contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-475]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u479	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the consultation of experts by the Commission Parameters still reeks of a cozy conversation with a number of selected masters of the universe of big business. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission proposes Parameters to further reduce the calculation rate for pension funds, in the country with the lowest calculation rate and the highest pension reserves per capita in the world;]] [[Whereas foreign opinions leading to the conclusion that a reduction in the calculation rate in the Netherlands is desirable or necessary cannot be objectively selected;]] [[Whereas there is a draft pension agreement with proposals for a new pension contract without buffers and without guarantees;]] [[calls on the Government to have the Parameters Commission deliver a new opinion on the basis of the proposed new pension contract, including position papers affecting the Chamber, from several renowned international macro economists as well as from the International Monetary Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-476]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u480	I know Mrs Van Brenk as quite correct, even at times when she disagrees with others. The fact that she does not support the opinion of the Parameters Committee is more than clear to me, but I think she called those people "servants of big business'. These are just professors who have been asked by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u481	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u482	I would therefore like to ask you a question. I understand you're very critical of that. That's your right. But I don't think that personal accusation is of the level I'm used to from Mrs. Van Brenk. I would like to give her a chance to rephrase that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u483	Mr Van Weyenberg is confusing something. It is not about the people who sit on the Parameters Committee; it is about those of international allure whom they have consulted. That's a really selective club. We would like to have an influence on that, because there are others other than the Blackstones and the big capital where the big banks are and so on. So as far as we are concerned, there should indeed be a rematch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u484	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u485	I would like to thank Mrs Van Brenn for that explanation. I really don't agree with the analysis, I think, but I had the impression that there really was a man playing here, which I don't know about you. But thank you for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u486	You're welcome. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for wanting peace and not making discounts above 100%. I therefore thank him for carrying out Mr Van Rooijen's motion. His mind is still here. But I ask him if that is entirely in line with the new contract. Can the discounts be spread in line with this new contract in ten years' time? And does that mean that you only have to take a tenth share and that if you're back at 100% in the years after that, that discount is off the table? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with the following words. If for years you do not raise a cost-covering premium and there is no indexing for years, but people are going to be hit for 60 billion, we think that is really unimaginable and too crazy for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u487	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now turn to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u488	Thank you, Mr President. As far as we are concerned, we have made it clear that the essence of the new system is twice gambling: uncertain economic growth and its impact on the climate. The fact that this uncertain economic growth is really problematic is supported by several parties. There's a road map for that too, I understand. Furthermore, the Minister said that the risk for employees will not increase. We take note of that. We're gonna see that. I thank the Minister for the answers. There's just one question left. That is the question of whether or not people want to be at risk when they bring the money to the bank, as is the case at the moment, and whether or not pensions could be more likely to be at risk. I don't think so. That was also the outcome of one of the round tables we had on the future of our money system. Maybe there'll be another reaction to that. I have one motion and it is about promoting greener pensions. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension funds have a huge investment potential of EUR 1,500 billion;]] [[calls on the government to identify how this investment potential can be much better, and if necessary mandatory, used for investments that are ethical, green and sustainable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-477]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u490	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I've got two parts to worry about. The first is about the abolition of the average systematiek. That's why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the average system is abolished;]] [[Whereas the group of 40- to 55-year-olds loses an amount of 60 billion or more on the introduction of the new pension contract;]] [[whereas compensation for this is not yet settled and compensation per pension fund is not always possible if there are insufficient buffers;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow a new pension contract before the compensation for all pensioners is settled in a final manner;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-478]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u492	Mr. Chairman. The second motion concerns the unrealisticly low calculation rate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the size of Dutch pension assets has grown from around 700 billion in 2007 to around 1,450 billion in 2019;]] [[noting that many pensions have not been indexed during the same period and that there is a risk of non-indexation in the coming years;]] [[Whereas this is due to the fact that future pension liabilities are taken into account at an unrealisticly low accounting rate, which is much lower than that achieved over the past 30 years;]] [[Whereas this unrealisticly low calculation rate makes pension funds artificially poor, which systematically undermines the security of pensions for members;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate an alternative, more realistic way of determining the calculation rate, taking into account the actual investment portfolio of pension funds;]] [[Calls on the Government to report to the Chamber on this matter before 1 April 2020, and to forward a press release to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-479]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u493	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u494	Mr. Chairman. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb vijf moties in te dienen.]] The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the calculation rate has been around 1% for years;]] [[Whereas this means that pensions cannot be indexed;]] [[Whereas, given the actual returns of pension funds, higher interest rates can be real and safe;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in consultation with the social partners, workers' and employers' organisations, how to increase the rate of calculation and to what level, and to involve a comparison with the countries around us,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pensions have not been indexed since 2009;]] [[Whereas this has a very negative impact on the purchasing power of pensioners;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how pensions can be indexed again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the pension agreement, the AOW age will continue to rise to 70 years;]] [[Whereas it is unfair to expect hardworking Dutch people to continue to work up to their 70th year of life;]] [[calls on the Government to fix the AOW age at 66,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-480]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-481]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-482]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u495	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that heavy professions can lead to severe wear and tear of the body;]] [[Whereas heavy-duty workers should not be expected to continue to work until their bodies become heavily overburdened;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal that entitles anyone who has been in a heavy occupation for 40 years to AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pension agreement includes the agreement to require self-employed persons to take out disability insurance;]] [[Whereas it may oblige self-employed persons to pay excessively high contributions for their disability insurance;]] [[Whereas self-employed persons must and will remain free to decide for themselves whether they wish to take out such disability insurance;]] [[whereas such an arrangement does not fall within the scope of a pension agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from requiring self-employed persons to take out disability insurance in this pension agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-483]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u496	Mr Baudet leaves me with some despair. Now I've had that a lot, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u497	That is not mutual at all, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u498	We have seen before that the opinion of the Forum changed a bit, for example about the climate and the next. The vote on Mr Smeulders' motion for a compulsory disability insurance scheme for selfemployed persons was taken not so long ago. On the contrary, Forum voted enthusiastically in favour of this. Forum wanted that very badly. So I'm a little misguided. You're shaking no, but I've got the vote. Forum simply voted in favour! Is it because the cabinet has decided to do it anyway that you are now only against it or were you already or...? I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u499	This almost reminds me of Hildebrand's play. Always in the contramine! No, I'd like to explain. Then we'll just take the text of that motion. That lacks the mandatory basis that we have here today. That's point one. The second point is that we do not think that this is appropriate in any case in a package deal on pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u500	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u501	It is a fact that it is not about pensions. I fully agree with you. This has a whole negotiating background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u502	Look, half the motion has already been approved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u503	Well, let me put it this way: then you must be very optimistic in nature. I'm usually fine, but this motion was just aimed at the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u504	Read the whole text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u505	"Confirming that general disability insurance was advocated byzzp'ers, by the AWVN," for example, just to mention something. You've changed your mind. You may, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u506	Read the whole motion. Read the whole motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u507	I'm gonna give it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u508	Then I can explain it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u509	No, then you're gonna try to talk justice. That's okay, but the point was there was a motion. Mr Smeulders can, I think, confirm that you were in favour at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u510	Then read the whole motion, otherwise it's pure rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u511	No, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u512	From your mouth, I think this is a most comical remark, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u513	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u514	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u515	Good. That would be the second term of office. 27 motions have been tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u516	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that there was some implicit criticism of the length of my answers in the first term, so I'm going through it now like a raging one. Mr. Klaver mentioned a filibuster. The spirit of Mr Van Rooijen is here. On his motion, you've passed judgment on Chamber. I think it's so beautiful that I can talk about it for hours. That's what I'm showing you tonight. There was one question. I'll just do the rest on the motions. Mr Omtzigt asked whether the early retirement allowance qualified for the reduction in working time. You're really asking me over with that. In our current calculation, we have assumed that this is not the case, but we will look at this. We will also include Mr Omtzigt's example of prison staff. We'll just take that with us. I cannot answer this directly at this late hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u518	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u519	I get that. I really had to look into this for weeks before I understood what was going on. Will we really get a written answer to this in the next two weeks? Of course, we must do so together with the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u520	Yes, this needs to be coordinated with Finance. We'll do that after the summer. You have two weeks of meetings here. This is gonna take a little more time. We'll do that after the summer. Then people also have a bit of an overview. There's been a lot of hard work in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u521	Okay. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u522	Then the motion to part No. 458 by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver on 800 million for sustainable employability through sectoral agreements. There's actually two things in there. Firstly, if you are not covered by the collective agreement, it is also possible to use the early retirement scheme if the employer pays. It also maintains that the most important part of the EUR 800 million is being used to invest in the sustainable employability of workers, and that the bottlenecks set out in the Cabinet letter are being addressed. It remains that it is for employers to consider bearing the burden of early retirement benefits. Given these backgrounds and given the passages from the cabinet letter, I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver spoke about protection against incapacity for work. He asks the government and the social partners... Yes, judge Room. Then the motion to part No. 460, targets above the waist. It invites the government to regularly inform the Lower House of the progress made by the Steering Committee and the choices made to achieve the objectives set when drawing up pension contracts. Of course, the steering committee is supposed to make sensible choices and deliver sensible opinions, and it is not going to deviate from them. Given that interpretation: Judgment Chamber. I will inform your Chamber of the steps taken there. I think it is important for Parliament to be properly involved in the steps that are being taken there. The motion in part No. 461 by Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher, on the other hand, is about the white spot. I agree with the thrust of this motion. Mr Klaver felt that more people, especially young people, should start building up more pensions. I very much agree with that. The social partners have also indicated that this is what they want with the plan of attack. The content of the pension scheme is, of course, the responsibility of the social partners. The scheme must fit within the framework of the law. An exception has now been introduced specifically for the broadcasting sector. If that exception becomes too broad after new agreements, I am happy to amend that exception. That is why I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher asked the government to do everything in its power, including asking for independent legal advice on the sustainability of the obligation and the continuation of talks with the European Commission. I think it is very important, as I have already pointed out to Mr Omtzigt, that European law should remain feasible. I understand the concerns of the Chamber and I share them. I have also indicated that this is really an important condition. I will make every effort to obtain as much certainty from the European Commission as possible in advance on the European legal feasibility of maintaining the obligation. If possible, I'll share those documents with your room. So I am already talking to the Commission about this. The contents of those conversations are confidential. I'm afraid I can't share it. But I see the point. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 463 is about the SCP study. Of course, the SCP has already carried out two studies on pensions. The SCP is also involved in the opinion as a crown member. So judge Chamber to do this. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent asked the government to continue the temporary limitation of the RVU levy. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. This is not in line with the agreements we have made with the social partners. They want to work together on a structural arrangement for the coming years. As regards the motion in part No. 465 by Mr Van Kent: government employers are given the opportunity to contribute to a total set of working conditions. Within this space, they have to balance, for example, more wages and stop working earlier, just like other employers. We have that 800 million available to all employers in the Netherlands. We're not gonna make separate funds available for one part. Therefore: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u523	Still on the previous motion. The motion says exactly: awaiting, therefore, until there is a structural scheme for early retirement. I believe that this is in line with the agreements made, because when there is a good early retirement scheme within five years, the RVU does not need to continue in this form as far as this motion is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u524	I didn't make those agreements with the social partners. We have made this temporary arrangement for five years. In the meantime, the social partners will develop a structural arrangement. That deal was made, and that's why I have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent's 466 calls on the government to ask the Labour Foundation to set out concrete objectives in this plan, in the case of the white spots, and to ask them to present this by the end of this year at the latest. That's what I think support of the letter. I'll give the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent's 467 calls for the AOW age to be frozen at 66 years. Dissuade. We're not gonna do that. There's no cover for that either. The motion in part No. 468 by Mr Van Weyenberg touches on the motion in part No. Mr Asscher's 460 concerns the 800 million, the sustainable deployment and the resolution of bottlenecks for early retirement at sector level. Judgment Room. That's hard, by the way. In the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van der Linde, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher asked the government to conduct an independent external investigation into the implementation costs of the old and new systems and to ensure low costs in the new system, including foreign experience, such as in Australia. It is quite right that Mr Omtzigt should point this out. The less the cost, the more pension people are left with. I would like to learn from experience abroad. It sounds very heavy: an independent external investigation. We are going to do research on the experiences abroad and on these points. I'll give the motion judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 470 by Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins on the mindsets. I've already agreed to that, but I'm happy to give it to you, Chamber. The motion in part No. 471 by Mr Stoffer, I regret to say that I do not recommend it. The motion consists of two parts. The second part concerns the Borstlap Committee. That part is superfluous, because it is already decided in the Borstlap Committee's mandate. The first part is part of the advice that the social partners andzzp organisations are going to give to me. That is why I must, unfortunately, discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u525	Then I'll hold the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u526	At the request of Mr Stoffer, I propose his motion (3243), No. 471). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u527	The motion in part No. 472 by Mr Mulder is about getting the pension agreement through the shredder. I wasn't gonna do that, so that's why the motion was dissuaded. The motion in part No. 473 by Mr Van der Linde, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins, the government calls for further conditions to be laid down for the effective improvement of sustainable employability and to set measurable targets with social partners. We have indeed agreed on a major investment in sustainable employability. I fully agree with Mr Van der Linde's motion. It must, of course, be used as effectively as possible. However, I must say that it is difficult to measure and map the effectiveness of sustainable employability. But... judge Room. The motion in part No. Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Omtzigt asked for youth organizations to be involved. The first part of the motion is policy support anyway. I think that involving young people is a good suggestion. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Brenk's 475 concerns the risk-free interest rate of pension funds. I indicated that we agreed on the risk-free interest rate in the draft SER opinion and also in the Cabinet letter. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 476 calls on the Government to send a new opinion to the Parameters Commission. We just got that. In my first term, I indicated that we have a steering group in which we focus on objectives. So I don't think it's a good idea. Therefore: dissuade. The motion in part No. Mr Van Raan asked the government to identify how this investment potential could be used much better and, if necessary, mandatory for investments. This affects the discussion we have had with the Chamber on a regular basis. I'm gonna have to discourage this motion. We have a covenant, we have an initiative bill from Mr Van Weyenberg and we have other things. This will be on top of that. The motion in part No. 478 by Mr Azarkan and Mrs Van Brenk request that no new pension contract be made possible until the compensation for all pensioners is settled. I have already indicated in my term that that compensation is necessary. When I finish, I'll come to your room nicely. Then I'm gonna go talk to your room about it. So, dissuade it. In the motion in part No. 479 the government is asked to investigate an alternative rate of calculation. That is actually the same motion as Mrs Van Brenn's earlier one. I have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. Mr Baudet's 480 also deals with the calculation rate. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too. The motion in part No. 481 calls on the government to examine how pensions can be indexed again. That is part of the pension agreement and therefore an unnecessary motion. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 482 asks the government to fix the AOW age at 66 years. That costs 12 billion in structural terms and there is no cover for that. Nor is it a sensible long-term solution. That's why I advise against him. The motion in part No. 483 calls on the government to give people who have been in a heavy occupation for 40 years the right to AOW. That's not in line with the 45-year agreements. That's why I advise against him. And the motion in part No. 484 calls on the Government to refrain from requiring selfemployed persons to take out disability insurance. I had the same despair as Mr Van Weyenberg. I had been given an overview that Forum for Democracy was always in favour. But I do not recommend the motion, because I am asking for advice from the social partners and the social partners. That's it, Mr. Chairman. A little faster than the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u528	I asked one more question, which you would come back to me in the second term. The question was about the holidays and that they should not be lost in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u529	You're right. I don't think we can guarantee that. An employee who has outstanding wages or holidays with an employer who goes bankrupt is of course... It's got a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u530	Very subtle!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u531	Thank you! Yeah, what a good question! It is indeed a risk. By sector, we'll have to see what fits. For example, the police are not at risk. In other sectors, you will make other considerations, for example by additional pension building through supplements or by arrangements for 45 years. That's what I'm reading here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u532	Okay. Well written.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u533	Just a little longer. Mr Van Weyenberg was just a little bit polite. How do I say that? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, This has led to confusion with his own Secretary of State. We shouldn't want that. I have here the exact operative part of the motion of 29 November 2018. It says: '... invites the government to make proposals for disability insurance for allzzp's when the plans are drawn up.' I don't see the word "obligatory" in there. Of course, it is always possible to ask the government to come up with proposals. So I do not see any inconsistency between our previously vented views and tonight's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u534	Then you have made this point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u535	Clear. But I once made an overview of all thezzp-motions that have been submitted at this point. I believe that the Forum for Democracy voted in favour three times. But, yeah, every time with a different tie. Yeah, sorry, Mr. Baudet, this is entrapment. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u536	Yeah, that was real entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u537	Did you have a chance to leave it with Mr Van Weyenberg... Now it's with you! If you're gonna make a statement, you're gonna have to prove it. I would like to see the motions in question and our voting behaviour. I will communicate this later in writing with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u538	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u539	I can't do that anymore tonight, Mr. President! We'll see about that later. I take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u540	Okay. Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment very much for their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-10.u541	We have come to the end of this debate. We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
