ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u1	The next item is the debate on the issue of the return of jihadis. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and give Mr De Graaf the floor on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we go in six minutes. Tonight is about the safety of the Netherlands and its inhabitants, as so often, of course, in these debates. I didn't know where to start, but I tried anyway. The Netherlands is, when we focus on tonight's safety topic, jihadists, male, female, unsided, their possible children and their return to the Netherlands, in an easy way to keep reasonably safe. Criminals and jihadists with a double passport must be removed from the country, you must ensure that they cannot enter the country and preventive detention or administrative detention must be introduced as a measure. If you do and maintain that, the Netherlands is already a lot safer and much has been won. However, the Netherlands has surrendered to international organisations, such as the EU, and to international treaties, which means that this Chamber can hardly exercise democratic control over this process. That is a ridiculous and dangerous situation, if you ask us. Who then pulls the strings when it comes to whether or not to bring dangerous jihadists to the Netherlands, both men and women? I would like to know that from both ministers. I will outline the situation as it has been recently. I quote: The situation in the region is unsafe and the Netherlands does not send people to unsafe areas. That was and is the cabinet position regarding the collection of people from that area. That's what we've been told for over a year. However, on 10 June last, the journalist Harald Doornbos, present in the region, reported that the Netherlands is starting to pick up the first children of IS families from Syria. He based himself on the chairman of the Committee for Foreign Relations in Northern Syria, who put on Twitter the same day that on 9 June, one day earlier, two orphan children of IS families were transferred to a delegation from the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Ain Issa. This happened while the Minister of Justice and Security repeated the cabinet position just quoted against Nieuwsuur that same weekend. Moreover, in the letter to the Chamber of 10 June, the Minister of JenV left the presence of the Netherlands in Syria for convenience, suggesting that the transfer was entirely a French matter, but that does not seem to be the case. The Dutch representatives were therefore present at the transfer. So it does not seem to be a French matter. On Twitter a video appeared in which the director of Consular Affairs of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be seen in the handling of the transfer in Ain Issa, two days after the statements of the Minister of JenV versus Nieuwsuur. Was the Minister of JenV perhaps not aware of the presence of the Dutch delegation in Ain Issa or was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs perhaps unaware of the government's own position, as described in the letter to the Chamber of 21 February this year? Or was she and has there been a return to the renounced consular activism? That is, of course, more of a question for the Foreign Minister. Do the Ministers agree that the omission of information in the letter of the Chamber concerning the presence of Dutch representatives in the much-discussed region at least gives rise to the appearance of deception? Finally, on this point, I have the question of when the letter of 10 June was sent to the Chamber. Was this before the respective tweet of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations in Northern Syria and the tweet of Doornbos? I ask this because the cabinet has previously provided assistance to IS fighters in non-combat territory without reporting this to the Chamber. I would like a comprehensive response from both ministers on this block. Mr. Chairman. Many jihadists detained in Europe due to terrorist activities are expected to be free in four years' time and may once again pose a threat. This was noted by the European think tank GLOBSEC. This image is confirmed by other experts, but also by our own services in, for example, the reports of DTN, Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands. Not only the release of jihadists in the Netherlands is a threat, including from abroad. In Sweden, for example, they simply get a different identity, a different passport and so on. They'll walk right into the Netherlands if they want to. I quote Daan Weggemans, a terrorist researcher: "Lines in the world of jihadism are short. What happens in France or other European countries can also pose a threat to the Netherlands. That's why it's good to keep an eye on what's going on in 2023." That's when a lot of people get out. "Then there can be all kinds of hardened jihadists that set up international networks and inspire people across the border." How does the government prevent jihadists from travelling from other Schengen countries through the open borders unnoticed into the Netherlands? Do the Ministers agree that the only satisfactory solution is to regain control of our own borders and indeed to abandon the Schengen Convention? We have to do something. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the next block: the punishments for Syrians. Some have already been sentenced to six years in absentia, but Muhammad D. from Utrecht, for example, who returned himself, only got three years in prison. He denied having fought and said he baked eggs for others or something. Justice often cannot prove exactly what jihadists have done in the battlefield and returned women usually get even lighter punishment than men. For example, look at Laura H., who only got 24 months in prison, 13 of whom were on parole. This is happening while there is broad consensus on the danger posed by jihadist women. See, for example, the AIVD report on this. I can also recommend everyone to read the book "Shoot the Women First" by Eileen MacDonald for the seriousness. You're gonna be scared. It's a little older. I think it's from 1992. According to researchers, penalties for returners in the Netherlands have so far been relatively low. Does the government intend to increase the level of punishment, equal it for men and women and also equal it for carrying out armed struggles and supporting activities such as cooking and washing? Mr. Chairman. I have my last question on this point. I'm almost through my time. I'm gonna make it. How can it be that in our country caliphate children who have returned to their jihad-loving grandmother and grandmother are placed, as in Ede? That's tying the cat to the bacon. As far as we are concerned, the Minister sends the whole thing back to Syria as an example. Mr. Chairman. I have one final comment to make. The Islamisation of our country is at a crucial stage. We can still go back, but if we're going to allow jihadists, whether they're men or women, it's going to be even harder. Then we are a little further away from home and we are a little further away from maintaining the rule of law and democracy. Close the border and make sure these people never come to the Netherlands again, is our closing call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u3	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u4	Thank you, Mr President. For my group, too, the safety of the Netherlands is paramount in this debate, but I am not convinced that the policy of this cabinet serves this security as much as possible. I will try to explain that in my speech. It's true: IS has been driven out, but not defeated. ISIS will continue to produce supporters. We need to arm ourselves against those supporters. But I am convinced that we will not do so by imposing a ban on entry or by taking their Dutch passport, at least only if they have another passport, because otherwise they will not even be able to do so. If we take away that passport, the chances of them being arrested, tried and convicted will only be reduced and, I fear, the chances of further attacks will be greater. Even if you would like it to be safer in this way, I do not believe that it will be possible to keep jihadi's of Dutch origin outside the national borders. They will, I fear, inevitably return to the Netherlands. If we don't know about it then, for example because we took their passports and they come in illegally, it's more dangerous than ever. Yesterday in Geneva, the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Bachelet, called on countries to first try warriors and return family members of former IS fighters to their countries of origin. That certainly applies to the children. What is the government's policy there, I ask the rulers. If I am right, there is still an official case for apologists and their children to reach safe territory independently before they are eligible for repatriation. Those who are unable to do so are unlucky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u5	Can Mr Van Ojik state what he means by "an apology" in this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u6	I am talking about people who have indicated that they want to return to the Netherlands and from whom the Dutch government has said: when you manage to go to safe areas, for example to a Dutch consulate, like in Erbil, we can accompany your return to the Netherlands, but if you fail to do so, we will not come for you. So under "sorry-tants," I mean people who have travelled to the caliphate and who have now indicated that they want to go back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u7	And then the fact that they're saying they're sorry is enough for you to overlook right away what they've probably all done about horrible crimes there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u8	On the contrary, I'd almost say. If there's something I don't want, it's something I don't want to overlook. I would like to ensure that we give ourselves the possibility that people who may have committed criminal offences can be arrested, tried and punished if the judge decides to do so. That cannot be done by leaving them in a camp in northern Syria and losing sight of them. It seems to me, by giving them the opportunity, if they indicate that they want to, to come to the Netherlands and then immediately pick them up when they get off the plane at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u9	I would have liked to ask that question, so thank Mrs Laan for that, because now I can ask another question. When Mr. Van Ojik goes out at night, when he goes to his bed, does he leave his front door and back door wide open, or does he close it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u10	That depends a little on the temperature. I happened to leave my back door open last night, but the front door was locked. I don't know what Mr. De Graaf is up to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u11	...and if he knows where you live...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u12	...but it's a good thing that he takes it into account: the back door is open, the front door is locked. Do your advantage, Mr. De Graaf, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u13	Well, I always close my door properly. I also close the back door at night. That's what I do to keep my family safe. You never know what kind of people are on the streets. If there were indeed people coming to the Netherlands with evil intentions, people who had proven evil intentions and who also raised their children with those evil intentions, then they could just come into your house if you leave your front door open, or your back door if there is a well-achievable fire escape, because someone who can climb a little bit will come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u15	Then why does Mr Van Ojik choose to lock his door, as he just said about his front door, which is the most difficult place to reach, but leaves the border open?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u16	I may not have expressed myself correctly, or Mr De Graaf may not want to fully understand me. I have just said: if we give the people who want to return to the Netherlands accompanied by the military, then we can arrest them at the moment they set foot on Dutch soil, bring them to justice and give them their punishment if they prove to be worthy of that punishment. So I would say: it can't be safer than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u18	May I add one more sentence, Mr President, in the direction of Mr De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u19	One sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u20	Also Mr. De Graaf does not live in the illusion that you are always armed against burglaries if you lock the door, but do nothing to increase safety on the street. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u21	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u22	So it's not just about locking your door. That's actually my argument. If you are able to travel to safe areas yourself, you are entitled to Dutch assistance and you can return. But if you happen to be in a place where you can't, you're out of luck. We have always heard from the cabinet the argument that active assistance is too dangerous. I honestly believe that argument does not stand. Recently we saw the Netherlands picking up two Dutch orphans under French protection. We know that other countries are also doing such missions. Australia did that this week and I believe Belgium too one or two weeks ago. We also know that organisations such as the Red Cross, which are fully active in dangerous areas, have already offered to support repatriation. That offer was rejected. Then there is only one conclusion: if you do not knowingly use the existing possibilities to bring Dutch children to safety, which are entirely beyond their fault in such miserable circumstances, then that is because you do not want it and not because you cannot. Why doesn't the Cabinet just say so? Mr. Chairman. The Kinderombudsman proposes an individual independent review and a weighting of the child's interests to minimise the risk of radicalisation of children who must remain in the camps. That is a constructive proposal and I hope that the cabinet will also respond constructively to it. I'd like to hear a response. Whether we like it or not, the Netherlands cannot avoid its responsibility for those who have travelled to the caliphate and their children who have traveled with them or born there. That's actually my argument. I would like the ministers in this debate to make it clear once again how the cabinet fulfils that responsibility. I would like to join with the heart cry of former Minister Hennis, the current UN envoy for Iraq, who recently said in NRC: "I understand that European countries do not want to bring their terrorist nationals home, but "we do not want them" is very easy." Mrs Hennis wonders whether there is sufficient support for an international tribunal and whether it is fair to give a country such as Iraq responsibility for prosecuting and bringing people to justice. Those sound like good questions to me. Where's the cabinet? How does it work, I would ask the Foreign Minister, the lobby, to establish an international tribunal? Which countries are participating and which are not? How does it react in the region, where the warriors and their families are now being held in camps? Could he have made an initial assessment of how long it's gonna take for that tribunal to get there? Perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs can comment immediately on the report that the United States has asked the Netherlands to bring back Dutch IS fighters and their children for the purpose of the security mechanism for Northeast Syria. Is that right? And how will the Netherlands respond to this request? Finally, Madam President. If we allow people to return instead of taking away their passports, so that we can arrest, bring them to justice and punish them, then, of course, there must be extreme vigilance towards all those who have the opportunity to return to society. The threat picture of NCTV published yesterday speaks volumes in this context. It contained warning words: remain suspicious, prevent children and young people from being exposed to IS propaganda and do not believe it too soon when people say they are sorry. If we are able to follow anyone who returns and walks freely, I ask the Minister. Are we on top of the fact that everyone is actively involved in deradicalisation programmes? Are relevant bodies working together optimally? And finally, is the government doing enough to inform the people of our country about the policies that have been pursued?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u25	I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u26	Thank you, Mr President. In August 2014, IS was working on its nothing-gentle and destructive advance in Iraq and parts of Syria. In August, the Jezidis often literally fell prey to the terror of IS. We have received Jezidis in recent years, even here in the Chamber. I myself was allowed to visit them in Iraq in the refugee camps and talk to them about what they have been through. We must never forget those horrors. It is therefore a good thing that Jezidis who fled have been able to find a safe home here. But what is my surprise now? The IND announced at the end of April that those Jezidis could return to Iraq. They could then return to refugee camps that the IND said would be safe. Mr. Chairman. On 29 April the Labour Party and a number of other parties in this Chamber asked questions about this to the Ministers, to the Cabinet. Last week I reminded the Cabinet of those questions, not so much for myself or for those colleagues, but for all those Jezidis who are now waiting for the decision of the IND and the Cabinet in great unrest. I understand that a petition has also been launched and that many signatures have been collected. So my question to the cabinet is: do they agree with me that Jezidis cannot go back to refugee camps in Iraq? My second question is: when can we look at this reaction in writing, as it should be? I hope that can be done soon. Perhaps the ministers will be able to say something about this tonight. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ojik already talked about the jihadis, Dutch extravagants, they are not only Dutch, but also others who have committed acts of terror as part of that terrible movement. Many of them are now in camps. Those camps are being guarded. I'm just saying that by the Kurds. The Kurds have often called on us to take responsibility for our own countrymen. I do not need to repeat literally everything Mr Van Ojik said, but I do agree with that very much. There will come a moment, some analysts say, when the Kurds say: we have really kept these gates closed long enough; we can't do that anymore. This could be a question of defence capacity, but perhaps also of financial resources. Then those gates open and there is an uncontrolled exodus of people who are potential co-actors of genocide. That seems totally undesirable to me. So I would like to ask the cabinet: what is the alternative plan to ensure that these people are tried and imprisoned? Questions have been asked about this too. We received the answers a few minutes before this debate began. Those questions are also about what is going on with an international tribunal. I would like to call on the Cabinet to ensure that, with all the official capacity there is, I know that those people are working well and hard in future, that the Chamber can also take note of such messages before a debate begins. After all, we are standing here empty-handed, because I haven't had time to analyse these letters properly. I would therefore like an oral response from the cabinet to the question of the international tribunal. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the orphans, the children whose parents have made a horrible choice and dragged them into it. Some of these children have lost their parents and some of them have lost one parent and have one parent in prison. Those children are under terrible conditions in the refugee camps in Northern Syria. We know that because you can go to those camps. Journalists have gone there. We also saw a diplomat go to that area. So we know what's going on there. It is terrible for these children there: the humanitarian conditions are horrible and there is also a real risk of radicalisation of small children, because the environment there is not exactly pedagogical. What does the Cabinet say? Firstly, the cabinet says that it is too unsafe for diplomats to go there. Fact: Everyone can go; we can all see that. Two. It's diplomatically irresponsible. Fact: asking the Kurds to bring the people back and the US are asking us to bring the people back. And three: they can ask for consular assistance themselves. In a report by Zembla we heard about a child of 3 and a child of three months, one of whom was captured by the Kurds and the other died. Someone else is taking care of them now; that's quite a challenge because there's really nothing in those camps. The cabinet did not even consider, I understood from the speech, that these children should also be given when the French picked up two orphans, because there was no request for consular assistance. How can a three-month-old baby ask for consular assistance? So my question to the cabinet on this issue is quite simple and we have asked a number of times: what is the plan? If there's no plan, we'd love to hear it. If the cabinet does not intend to give some care to children of Dutch nationality, for which the Netherlands has a duty of care, then we hear it now. Then all the grandparents and grandmothers will know that too. Finally, Mr President. The Children's Ombudsman has made a proposal that might help to break the deadlock, because the cabinet always does not want anything, but at the same time these children are a risk to safety and this is also unacceptable in human terms. Will the Cabinet consider the Children's Ombudsman's proposal? I hope for an affirmative answer. If you don't, we'll have a motion ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u27	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In recent years, IS fighters have deliberately chosen to leave our country, travel to Syria and join the fight; the fight against us, against democracy and against freedom. As far as the VVD is concerned, everyone who crossed this literal and figurative border has thrown the door to the Netherlands behind him in the lock. These terrorists are no longer welcome here, even if they regret what I believe more, pretending to be sorry. We're not naive. We do not want to import the danger into our country. So those Dutch nationalities withdraw and there try. Why does that happen so little? I have tabled a motion with my colleague Mr Van Toorenburg to examine all the files of travellers before the summer recess to see whether Dutch nationality is being withdrawn. In the media we read reports that the AIVD and the AIVD hardly cooperate in the policy of withdrawing Dutch citizenship. Is this notification correct and how does the Minister ensure that all parties concerned give the highest priority to the implementation of this policy? The more passports are withdrawn, the less ISIS terrorists are entitled to return to our country. In addition, can we go back to a system in which people automatically lose their nationality when entering a foreign military force, extended to people who join a terrorist organisation? You will notice that the VVD wants the Dutch nationalities to be withdrawn as much as possible to keep IS terrorists out of the door. I am therefore looking forward to the answers to the questions that have just been asked and accept that something has apparently come in via the e-mail. Unfortunately, I was already here in a VAO and I haven't been able to take that kind of thing. What about the request to investigate the possibility of bringing terrorists to justice there? The VVD believes that trial there is also logical and would do justice to the victims of their horrific acts. Local courts or a mix of them, hybrid tribunals, UN support or direct a coalition of the willing, as far as the VVD is concerned, everything is done to enable local trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u29	Mrs Laan-Geselschap and I both want to keep the Netherlands safe, but the discussion is about how you would do that. If you withdraw the passport of terrorists, so take away the Dutchmanship, doesn't she see with me the risk that people will come back to the Netherlands, for example because they have family here and then come across the border illegally? We know that's not so hard. And doesn't she also see the risk that they're going to commit attacks elsewhere, which can also be directed against the Dutch because they're not being tried anywhere else and therefore not in the Netherlands? Because Mrs. Laan-Geselschap doesn't want them to come here. Is that really a solution to the problem of the safety of the Netherlands, I would like to ask her. What about her? What about the risks I'm sketching?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u30	The fact that these people have traveled to destroy our country is not something we can solve by taking away their passport. But if they come back to the Netherlands and are indeed illegal, we have every right at that time to expel them. What we do not want is for these people to come back and enjoy the beautiful country that we have all built here; on that they have lost all rights. They let it go the moment they left abroad. The risks, as you describe them, remain in both cases. We don't live in a perfect society, unfortunately. We do not want these people, who have deliberately and knowingly travelled out to destroy your country and my country, and that of our children and grandchildren and of our neighbours, still to be entitled to Dutch nationality. If we do so according to the legislation that we have adopted here in the Chamber, then we can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u31	I know that can be done, but the question now is: will the Netherlands be safer? Mrs Laan-Geselschap says: in both cases you run risks. My thesis is, if you bring them back, or let them come back, you can arrest them, try them and throw them in jail. If you tell someone else to try them, you'll never know if it's happening, and b never know if you'll ever see them here as illegal. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap says: then you can turn them off again. She knows as well as I do that there are tens of thousands of people here who are not being deported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u32	The latter is bad enough, but if you have listened to Mr De Graaf's input, then you have also heard what the punishment is for people who return to our country and are condemned. That is not different, because you say: then the problem is solved. I don't believe in that. We believe in the fact that we do not want these people back in the Netherlands. When they have no Dutch nationality, you don't have to embrace them at the border and welcome them to prison for perhaps two, three, four years, which brings them back to Dutch society, with all the pleasures that are connected to the Dutch community.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u33	I'm sorry, but this is really a caricature: welcome, embrace. I have now said six times that I think people should be arrested, tried and thrown into prison. Mrs Laan-Geselschap does not oppose this. She takes people's passports and says, "Find out."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u34	Mrs Laan-Geselschap is now talking for quite some time about the need to ban these people from Dutch soil. What does she think of the AIVD's estimates that, Dutch or not, passport taken or not, these people will always remain a threat to the Netherlands and that it does not help with the trial, which is important, and that it does not really help with security, which is important?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u35	I hate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u36	That is complicated, because that is contrary to Mrs Laan-Geschelschap's speech. The prosecution says that we would rather prosecute these people here in the Netherlands than not. The AIVD says: It doesn't matter whether you take the passport or not, we are concerned about the threat to the Netherlands that comes from these people. If you take the passport, the threat will remain. So the question we need to answer tonight is: how do we keep the Netherlands safe? The answer to that is not the answer given by Mrs Laan-Selschap here, namely to take away the passport. The question is: how are we going to get to trial and how are we going to get to safety? How does Mrs Laan-Selschap's speech relate to the assessment and calls of the AIVD and the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u37	That's a lot of questions. Firstly, it begins with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, because we believe that these people have lost the right to do so. That law has been passed in this Chamber and must also be implemented. That's what we stand for. We stand for the implementation of the rule of law and this is part of it. In addition, you are advocating national security. That is also the common thread in our speech. I shall come back to this later with a number of examples and solutions. As far as national security is concerned, it is our fear that these people will first go to prison, but then come out again. But then they still think exactly the same thing. This is also stated in all reports of the AIVD, Europol and NCTV. At that point in time, we in the Netherlands still have the same big problem, which we have not solved, even though Mr Van Ojik is right to say that you should pick them up first and then send them to prison. You always have to deal with a problem at the root, I learned at home. With us, it starts with the withdrawal of Dutch nationality where possible according to legislation we have agreed with each other in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u38	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u39	Yeah, finally. I often hear parties saying that we should look at this from the perspective of the victims, the relatives of the Islamic State. I fully agree with that. But priority number one of the next of kin is the Jezidis who have been killed and the Muslims, Christians and non-thinkers who have fallen victim to the brutal crimes of IS. The only thing Mrs Laan-Selschap is saying right now is that her priority number one is not that of the next of kin, but that of banning these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u40	I just indicated I'll get back to you in a minute. If you have time and patience, you will hear it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u42	I'm gonna keep going on the same subject. The VVD would also like a little more clarity on how the cabinet looks at providing consular assistance, even outside unsafe areas. The VVD believes that people who have been active for an organisation on the list of terrorist organisations have forfeited the right to assistance from the Dutch government, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs once put it: "You are responsible for your behaviour, even abroad. If you do not respect the laws and regulations in another country, you can expect this to have consequences for you." Mr. Chairman. We know the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism. This law expires in March 2022. This law has been considered in 40 cases. In only six cases, this has led to the imposition of restrictions on freedom. In three cases there is no even probation surveillance and this situation is considered a threat to national security. Firstly, should this law not be applied much more frequently and secondly, should it not apply longer than until 2022, given the threats described by the NCTV? What does the Minister think about this? Mr. Chairman. Not only the IS fighters themselves want to return. They also have women and children. These are women who have been taken, but also women who have sometimes taken as hard as their husbands. In that respect, women are not at all different from men. They have voluntarily travelled to IS area and have really not just done the dishes there. Indeed, they have played a crucial role, as the Europol report shows. Understanding the call for the recovery of IS women does not therefore have the VVD. There are also children born there. Terrible things have happened to them, they've seen terrible things and they've suffered trauma. Do you think they might have been indoctrinated? Or did they, as an extreme, even compete in the battle? Or children born there who are not connected to our country, but who are young and innocent. Of course, we do not blame children for this struggle, but on the other hand, as a Dutch representative, I must bear in mind the importance of our country, our inhabitants and our security. I understand that it is unique that the two orphans, who are under the custody of the Dutch State, have come here. But let us organize in a decent way that children are mainly cared for there, with family members or in foster homes. And if those young children still have parents, how do we prevent them from being allowed to come with them? How do we deal with the children of terrorists in prison? They don't actually have parents, but they do in the long run. Parents, who we don't want back in our country after they're released. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has clearly stated that there is no active commitment to the recovery of extravagants and their underage children and that the Dutch government does not provide assistance in unsafe areas in Syria and Iraq. Can the VVD assume that this position is still valid? In recent times, I have had the uncomfortable feeling that the cabinet is squandering against the limits of this policy. Does the Minister always intend to involve the Chamber in advance if there are any plans to get back Syrians, or their wives or children? So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u43	I wanted to ask a question. I want to see if there are any shades of grey in this debate. One side of the Chamber wants the people to stay there and the other side wants them all here. Maybe there's something in between. I would like to ask Mrs Laan-Selschap whether there is also a risk in leaving children there, in the sense that every year those children spend longer in those camps or in the vicinity of IS fighters or mothers, the risk of radicalisation increases. The chance that they, with their Dutch link, will return to the Netherlands, is also present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u44	That seems very real to me. Of course, there's a chance. But at the moment we do not want to go back to getting those children back. You have to judge those children on the spot and see to what extent they have been exposed to all sorts of things. You also have to look at how you should bring them back to the Netherlands, so that they do not pose a threat to our national security, because it is our primary concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u45	In itself, this is an encouraging answer. I do agree with Mrs Laan-Selschap when she says that we should assess the children on the spot and that we should look at what we should do with them, depending on the situation. I understand that very well, because I think that is also at the heart of the dilemma. Children under 6 years of age are probably not radicalised, but in children between 6 and 12 years of age you still wonder what exactly happened and what risk is attached to it. You have to look at this not only with the glasses of youth care, but also with radicalisation and justice. I am therefore actually pleased with this step by Mrs Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u46	Well, thank you. It was not a question but simply a speech by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u47	Exactly. Nor were they my words; it was a repetition of his interpretation of my words. But our words are clear: we are not bringing anyone back at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u48	It is always good if the coalition seeks a common ground in this debate. My question is about something else that Mrs Laan-Selschap said, namely about people who are in a safe area but who have been in the caliphate or have fought for IS. They are not entitled to consular assistance in relation to the VVD. I got that right. But as far as I know, that is contrary to current government policy. We've been told many times that if you manage to get to safe territory, you're entitled to assistance. I am therefore very curious to see what consequence it has in Mrs Laan-Geselschap's view when it becomes clear that the VVD's view is really contrary to what the cabinet has always claimed. I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u49	If Mr Van Ojik were to propose it, that would indeed be a fair question at the moment. I have asked the cabinet whether there is any possibility of being reluctant to provide consular assistance in this respect. I literally asked that question. I'm curious to hear the answers from the cabinet. You are indeed right to be as you say, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u50	Until now, that is the case. Until now, the policy of this cabinet has been very daring, because I have always listened very carefully when one of these ministers spoke that if you manage to get to the safe area, you will be brought to the Netherlands by the military. I like that. In fact, I think that's very good, because then you can put the people in jail. I'm in favour of that. I made that clear. Mrs Laan-Geselschap is not in favour of this. But what's the consequence if these things stay at odds? I am happy to await the response of the rulers, but if you say something like that here, I wonder if this still has consequences for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u51	I understand what you're saying. I tried to indicate that I asked to what extent this is possible. As soon as I have an answer to that, we can consider it as a party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u53	Mr. Chairman. This Saturday it will be five years since the terrorist organization ISIS proclaimed an Islamic caliphate in parts of Syria and Iraq, with all the terrible consequences: genocide on Jezidis and Christians, enslaving thousands of young girls and executions in the most beastly way. Outside the Middle East, too, we have seen the consequences of this terrorist movement, with attacks in the name of ISIS on five continents, such as last Easter on Christians and tourists in Sri Lanka, or closer to home in Paris, Brussels and Manchester. In the midst of all this suffering, it is difficult to imagine that 300 people have traveled from the Netherlands to contribute to this caliphate, which violates the freedoms which form the basis of our Dutch rule of law. And now the same caliphate has fallen and we have the question of how justice can be done to the victims of the IS atrocities. What is the responsibility of the Dutch State for IS travellers and their children? In order to start restoring the rights of the victims, persecution of IS fighters and anyone who has volunteered to contribute to this terrorist organisation is necessary. My group sees a UN tribunal as the ideal route in this, but it can also imagine that another international tribunal will be chosen. We're glad to find the cabinet on our side. Does the Foreign Minister see any possibility for a UN tribunal, or is the Netherlands now targeting a European alternative? What will be the commitment of the Netherlands to the United Nations General Assembly in September this year? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, perpetrators of Dutch nationality will also have to be tried by such a tribunal. Can the cabinet indicate which part of the caliphates travelling from the Netherlands will be eligible for such criminal proceedings on the spot? Because this group is an urgent problem. It is the people who have continued to support ISIS until the end. The AIVD also warns that on return they pose a high risk, from radicalisation and recruitment of persons to the actual commission of attacks. Mr. Chairman. My group understands that the cabinet is not actively committed to bringing back this group of adult travellers. Is that right, too? To what extent does the Minister consider it conceivable that these groups will eventually find their way back to the Netherlands via the non-consular route? Are our services sufficiently prepared to be able to signal this and act on it? Does the Minister have the confidence that the D.A. has enough instruments in its hands to actually go to effective prosecution at that time? Then about the kids. We are aware that there are 90 children with Dutch kinship in shelter camps, who are not a perpetrator but mainly a victim, victims of exposure to the atrocities of IS by their parents. The wretched thing is that actively participating in their return often implies the return of their parents, whether in the long term or not. This brings great risks to the security of our society. Mr. Chairman. Where this will not be the case, as in the case of the two young orphans two weeks ago, my group can imagine that, where possible, the cabinet will consider bringing them back, precisely because we know the appalling conditions in which children live in Syrian camps. But most of it still seems to be staying with one or both parents. What long-term perspective does the cabinet currently see for these children? Does the cabinet now have more insight into whether more children without parental supervision are staying in the camps, for example because the living parent is in detention? Is it conceivable that a study should be carried out into the possibilities of allowing parents of these children to voluntarily renounce their parental authority, so that they can look at their return without the possibility of having their parents retraced? Finally, my group finds it impossible for children of former Syrians who have previously found their way to the Netherlands to be placed by child protection with family known to the OM and municipality as radicalised: the news report from Ede recently. I understand that the information-sharing guidelines may not have dealt with the complex situation of returning Syrians and children, but why didn't child protection get that information? What is the Minister going to do to prevent this from happening in the future and to remove blockades in the exchange of information between the various authorities, precisely in relation to these precarious cases? Finally, can it be excluded that there are more cases where the lack of knowledge has led minors to find themselves in the wrong place? Is the Minister prepared to check this out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u54	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u55	Mr. Chairman. I think we should move tonight mainly in the perspective of the victims of ISIS and their relatives, whether they were Muslims, Jezidis, Christians or non-thinkers. Through their eyes, tonight's debate, I think, can only be about two things: justice and security. Justice, of course, for the victims of the crimes committed by the Islamic State and security for the families of the region, but also, of course, for the Dutch here. Justice and security do not come to light, but require clarity from the cabinet and courage from us as Chamber to see that there is no perfect solution to this problem. First, justice. The IS fighters must be punished for the atrocities they have committed. Trial is crucial to this. As far as D66 is concerned, this government is making every effort to bring these perpetrators to justice so that they can serve an appropriate sentence. There was an order in the coalition agreement and the Security Council offered an opportunity, but unfortunately we are still not there. Can Minister Blok state what he is doing to arrive at such a tribunal at the moment? How realistic is it that there will be such a tribunal? How long will it take if there is agreement to come to such a tribunal? Is there a European connection being established? Of course, I ask this because there is a dilemma in this tribunal. If it's there, it's really good, but what's plan B for justice if it doesn't come? And my follow-up question to the Minister of Justice is whether the International Crimes Team has sufficient capacity to ensure that the burden of proof against the Dutch expatriates is sufficient to punish it when it comes to lawsuits in the Netherlands. Finally, on justice. Justice is, of course, also that people are not sent back to danger. This also applies to the Jezidis in the Netherlands, which were the subject of questions on 29 April last. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, security, both in the interests of the survivors and in the interests of the entire Dutch and European population. The cabinet must prevent Dutch extravagants from coming back to the Netherlands under the radar, for example, that they are suddenly released or liberated. How much do the Cabinet estimate the risk of this? How great is the willingness and capacity of the Kurds to keep our extravagants captive? What risk does that travel unnoticed bring to us? Can the cabinet also guarantee that there is sufficient capacity, sufficient manpower, female strength to ensure that no one comes this way unnoticed? Then there is the thorny issue that has also been touched by others: does the cabinet have to pick up children or not? The discussion on this issue is polarized, black and white and with little regard for the dilemmas. I would like to say that security also means that innocent children are unwelcomely radicalising. 85% of the children present in that area are under 6 years of age. Leaving those children there, just to use the words of others in this debate, will make them perhaps ticking time bombs that will eventually come to the Netherlands. We have to prevent that. I have a few questions about that. Yesterday, the Minister wrote that a total of 200 children with a Dutch link will stay in Syria and Turkey, 30 of them in Turkey. What is the reason these children do not return to the Netherlands? If the answer is that they can't be separated from their parents, why aren't these parents arrested and tried in Turkey? There are also Dutch children in Kurdish camps; that is 90, to be exact. Two of them, two orphans, were recently brought back with the help of the French. That is good news, but my group also calls for us to bring the rest of the children to the Netherlands, because that is not only good for their safety and their well-being, but also good for the safety of the Netherlands. From that point of view, I thought it was a good suggestion from the Children's Ombudsman not to look at this as a group, not to put all these children on the same footing, but to let people with different expertises such as radicalisation, youth care or law take a look at this individually, matter by case. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and Security to see whether this suggestion is worth examining and whether he might want to come back to it later in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u56	We also know D66 as the party that attaches great importance to the European Convention on Human Rights. Now it has been repeatedly made quite explicit that if you were to bring a child to the Netherlands, you would also have to bring the parents to the Netherlands. How does D66 look at that? Indeed, there are no easy solutions, as Mr Sjoerdsma rightly said, but doesn't he overlook them a little easily himself? When the children are here, the parents are entitled to a family life. So you're not just bringing those kids here, you're bringing the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u57	I would like to say a few things about that. The most important thing, I think, is this. If it is found in the Netherlands that parents are unable, unable or, in some terrible cases, unwilling to raise their children properly and safely, the Dutch State is empowered to remove these children from their parents. In many of these families, actually in most, there is no remorse. Most women who are in those camps do not repent of what they have done, knowing what the organization they have joined stood for. Then you can, I think, well argue that those children should be removed from there. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly points out the dilemma and says that it is annoying that even then family reunification may still be possible. But I would like to say that, and I believe that many people in this Chamber say that these women must first be tried on the spot. And then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u58	That is a very serious question. It is very much the question of what right then prevails. If the government itself actively brings children to the Netherlands, does it not charge the obligation to bring the parents here as well? Does Mr Sjoerdsma recognise that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u59	I acknowledge and acknowledge that, but I would also like to point out the other side of the dilemma. There are 90 Dutch children, children of Dutch nationality, in Kurdish camps. Each year they stay there longer, there is a growing chance that they will be traumatized, which is the humanitarian side, but there is also a growing chance that they will be radicalised. The danger of radicalisation, especially in such an area, and the chance that they will then return to the Netherlands under the radar, I consider to be greater than the risk that Mrs Van Toorenburg is currently describing. That's how I weigh it. But I also say to the cabinet: make clear how that risk is weighed. Because I think that the cabinet is too unclear about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u60	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u61	I have made this point specific, because it is often too easy to say that it is all about the interests of the children, and that is why we need to bring them back. Mr Sjoerdsma explicitly says that if you bring the children to the Netherlands, you will also bring the parents to the Netherlands. That is the big dilemma for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u62	I think I've clearly argued how I look at these kids. I think it is important that everyone should continue to see that dimension, because there is also a safety side to these children. Of course we all give these children a normal life, a safe education, but there is another side to it: if you do not take action, there is a great chance that these children will radicalise. They're 90 kids. That's 90 potential radicalized kids. And I also think that there is a great urgency, including from the Security Service, and I am very curious about the analysis............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u63	I heard Mr Sjoerdsma through you a number of times suggesting a possible trial on the ground. I have given a number of examples in my speech in which we have asked the cabinet if that is possible. Would Mr Sjoerdsma be in favour of local trial of a number of people who have done terrible things there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u64	Yes, although we may not have to give up the trail of the tribunal too soon. Minister Blok has not only advocated a tribunal in the Security Council, but he has done so in the European Union. He's trying to give that idea energy and momentum. The moment you immediately switch to local trial, the air runs out of that balloon. I think that would be a shame, even if there are certainly some of them. I think that Mrs Laan-Geselschap rightly implies questioning the feasibility of this plan. Then you need a plan B. A plan B can indeed be a local trial, but then you have to think very carefully. I'd like to call on everyone to do that right. If there is very little confidence here in this Chamber that the Dutch rule of law can bring about an adequate trial of these returners, to serious punishments, then we must ask ourselves whether the states of law such as Lebanon and Jordan will be able to do so. Again, there is a risk decided. Of course, local trial can, with the exception of Iraq. There's a big problem, there's the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u65	There are even other variants, because you know this too from the Minister, and you also tell him that an international tribunal is at present quite difficult in view of international relations in the world. There are other possibilities, and I have indicated them. For example, you can look at how things have gone in the past in Sierra Leone and Kosovo, where, for example, a combination of judges from the European Union combined with local judges makes the assessment. These are all examples. I would like to hear from Mr Sjoerdsma whether he would like to take part in such solutions in order to condemn them locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u66	I have nothing against these proposals and nothing against them. You'll never hear me say that. The only thing I want to say is that if we all think that priority number one from the next of kin, who have endured this horror, is trial, we must also ensure that that trial takes place. I therefore believe that we should put the full weight behind these options. That would be my appeal to this minister. But we will also have to ensure that for people who come under the radar to the Netherlands and who report to consulates, the capacity of an International Crimes Team, for example, is in order to ensure that these people will be brought to justice. Nothing would be more annoying than these people returning to the Netherlands and then finding out that the burden of proof is not waterproof and that there is no punishment or a low penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u68	Thank you, Madam President. A few more questions about the action to get these orphans out of Syria. Why were the women and children, as mentioned in the other court orders, not also taken? What obstacles are there now to making an individual assessment of the case of those children in Syria, now that the Kurds have indicated their willingness to help formally and have given Iraq guarantees regarding the detention and the death penalty? Mr. Chairman. Finally, my final point. Good policy is also linked to fair and clear communication. Two weeks ago, I was standing here in front of the Minister of Justice. The answers weren't there then. They came in writing later, but those were answers that I am not satisfied with. It was about a WOB issue from the NIS. Two essential things came to light at the time. One: at the end of 2016 at the beginning of 2017 there was indeed contact between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Kurds and Turks about Dutch extravagants. Two: the official staff of both Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security considered it in the interest of national security to actively assist Dutch people in Syria and return them to the Netherlands. But the room didn't know this. My group has literally asked for this. This policy has been changed in response to my written questions, but we did not know that. And this entire Chamber, from the SP to the PVV, has asked for this several times. I ask the Minister why this information has never been reported to the House of Representatives. Finally, Mr President. I mentioned briefly in the interrupting debate with the colleague of the VVD how you deal with people who come to the Netherlands anyway. How are we preparing for child care? How is custody going, especially after the worrying reports that a child who has been retrieved has been placed with grandparents with jihadist sympathies? To what extent are these people in the picture with our own services? Is it true that the US has now made a request to the Netherlands for a new military contribution to bring back the Dutch IS fighters and children? To what extent does the Foreign Minister consider that request?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u70	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u71	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Drost reminded us that it was a year ago that we asked for the debate and a great deal has changed in that year. IS seems to have been defeated and the Kurdish camps have been flooded with IS supporters who have stayed there until the end of the Caliphate. A huge amount of information has also been released since the fall, as journalists and aid organisations have been given access. We now have an even clearer picture of the horrors that have taken place there. IS says he's not beaten himself. My group is very concerned about this, but today we are talking in particular about the extravagants who want to return to the Netherlands. It is a difficult subject; we have heard it from various quarters today. My group has taken a very clear position, and that is what we are sticking to. As far as we are concerned, the Netherlands will not actively contribute to the return of extravagants. The crimes have been committed there by people who have distanced themselves from the Dutch rule of law and the trial must take place there. The National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator also clearly states, even in the most recent publications, that travellers, including women and children, pose a real threat to Dutch society. We also see it in the images of the Kurdish camps: jihadist women who terrorize the camps and even want to make the most of them. I would therefore like to say, following the example of the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism, that do not fall into the emotional calls that ISIS is merely playing into the hands of. I noticed: since last year, much has changed on the subject we are discussing today. But the policy has remained the same and that is good. It is very good to see that the cabinet has remained on the line we advocate. I have noted that an exception has been made with regard to two orphans with a Dutch link in the Kurdish camps. I do have a critical question about that. Mr. Sjoerdsma made it, too. A Dutch envoy participated in that French mission. That surprised us somewhat, because the policy was that no Dutch enter the area. The Minister of Foreign Affairs went here in his own way. We know him a little bit stoic when he was questioned about that. But can it not simply be said from the cabinet that, because of a crisis situation, there has been a de facto deviation from the policy, no matter how minimal that deviation was? We understand that this has been chosen, but we cannot understand the fact that it is said that no exception has been made and that it is not a policy change either. 'Cause something did happen. There is another point concerning the orphans. Is it now sufficiently clear that the parents will not come forward after all? I had already indicated: our international treaties and our right, including in the Netherlands, then commands us to reunite children and their parents. That is, in fact, almost the fate of human rights, which is now turning against these children. It is poignant to note that this is de facto going on. If these parents turn out to be alive later, do they not have the right to come to the Netherlands? We are very concerned about that, because what do we see? We see that we are apparently placing children back in the Netherlands with radicalised families at the moment. That is the practice in the Netherlands at the moment. We've got the National Advisory Team underage revenants doing a superficial test. Child services rely solely on that, while everyone points out that it is a very radicalised family. So that's de facto how it works in the Netherlands right now. So when we say that we do want the children but not the parents, we miss the fact that our international law obliges us to let the parents come to the Netherlands as well. We see what the day-to-day practice is: then one is put together. I even dare to say that the chances of the parents getting into prison are smaller, because we also have a track record in the Netherlands. Then we say it's better not to put Mother in jail, because she needs to be there for her children, in order to continue this radicalisation. This is an evil, but it is the least evil of all evils as far as we are concerned. But what's more important is a tribunal in the region. We have repeatedly argued in favour of this. Such a tribunal must be established, just now that IS military has been defeated. There lies the evidence of the atrocities, there lie the mass graves, there are the victims and their next of kin. It is very important to be tried there, and it is very important to avoid actually avoiding punishment. It is good that many countries have accepted our plea. People are joining us. Sweden came to the Netherlands to invite the Netherlands. An expert meeting has now taken place in Stockholm with representatives of countries such as Norway, Finland, Denmark, Austria, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the EU, UNITAD. The CDA wants to stay informed about the follow-up and what the further commitment of the cabinet is, because where there is a will is a way. I am also very interested in the advice of the external international advisor. We have the conviction that it can be done. Unfortunately, it cannot be done through the UN, but according to the example of Nuremberg. Such a tribunal can rule on war crimes, on crimes against humanity and genocide, and hopefully contribute to a recognition of genocide at last. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We must also do everything we can to ensure that people are deprived of Dutch nationality. I understand we got a letter on that, but I couldn't quite figure it out. I can go further, but also fully agree with what Mrs Ploumen said about the Jezidis. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is unthinkable that this group of vulnerable people should be sent back to a camp where they fled the genocide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u73	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u74	Mr President, I will keep the momentum going. I ended up on the list of speakers. Thank you for allowing me to do that. I fell in the butter with my nose when I came in, because then Mrs Laan-Geselschap spoke. She had some very practical questions. I support the questions put by Mrs Laan-Selschap. For the rest, this is a testimonial policy. You can do that, from the Forum side as well. We don't want jihad fighters here. Wherever possible, keep them out of the door. Don't lose faith in wishful thinking about tribunals far away and that it's all possible. We just have to hope that there's still a little justice for those people. But this is pointless here in the Netherlands. Don't bring them here. Trial here is an illusion. You're being taken by the nose. It's gonna be a trick and a trick. You can't control a story and you can't verify it on the spot. There can't be a judge commissioner, no rogatory commission, nothing at all. You're being taken into soft talk that judges can't do anything with. There's no pulling wire. If you have to try these people here in the Netherlands, you don't know where to look. That trial is an illusion. With such a trial here bringing justice to victims? Forget it! That's not gonna work. None of these perpetrators comes here with a full awareness: oh, what have I done with a number of horrors, and because of these and those circumstances I am tempted by the sight of all kinds of horrors to participate in an even greater number of horrors. You'll never hear those stories, but those are the stories that are closest to the truth. There is no point in that. The same applies to children. That sounds pretty harsh, but one thing has to be said about all this wiggling and weighing: it is time for the State to see its task vis-à-vis these people in protecting the country. You don't know what you're getting. Then stay away, I'd say. When you bring the kids in here, you can say shit that with a lot of sneaking around and thunder-hunting, half the family is at your door. It'll take a while, but they'll come. They'll probably be parents, too. What are these parents gonna do? Well, they're of course crooks; there's no other way. They'll be locked up. And then you think with a whole platoon of aid workers you can raise that child in a humane situation into a gentle and well-living human child, while those parents are deradicalized and surrounded with all expertise. But that's not the practice. If you separate a child from his parents, it's now placed with a radical grandfather. It still feels a little at home there. But imagine a child like that from this environment ending up with a bunch of unbelievers. What's that? The family who has a look at that and whose mother or father may end up in jail may have contact with that child. You don't have to be a child psychologist to provide for what a ransom that brings about with regard to the unbelieving Dutch who break into a family, who place a child in a nest where it doesn't belong, and put the mother in isolation behind bars where the child occasionally visits? Do you really think you can create harmony there with a lot of soothing aid? Never in his life. That's all wishful thinking. You're creating a hotbed of new rancunes against our government in this country, trying to save what's left to save. So where there's still time, keep them out of the door. Do we have a moral obligation to help them? I don't think so! The parents have chosen with all their strength and with all their wits for the struggle in a country and thus distanced themselves from all the values in our society that they should cherish. They don't want anything to do with that. And now we still have to work to make it a little straight with those people. You don't have to do that, never do that. Wherever you can, keep them out of the door. And if you're faced with it unexpectedly, and they're standing here, then take away their nationality. I came here thinking that the debate would take place today on the subject for which a debate was requested almost a year ago. The reason was the disturbing news that two Muslim terrorists, Oussama A. and Reda Nidalha, who had left the Netherlands for Islamic State, were about to return to the Netherlands. In 2014, they willingly joined an organization that embraces the foundations of Islam. The values we embrace in the West, such as freedom of expression, freedom of religion, equality of men and women, the right to love whomever you want, those values were apparently abhorred by Oussama A. and Reda Nidalha. They elected Islamic State over the Netherlands. After a few years of living in the perfect world for them, in which homosexuals are thrown from apartment buildings, women are treated as inferior and apostates are stoned, the two wanted to return to the Netherlands. Maybe they regretted leaving for Islamic State, but the probable reason they wanted to go back is that Islamic State was as good as defeated. In Iraq or Syria, they could get the death penalty or life imprisonment, probably just a few years in the Netherlands and a lot of help. No regrets, but opportunism. If they had any regrets, it was that they had lost the battle. On their way back to the Netherlands, they fell into Turkey's hands unexpectedly. In Turkey they were held in custody for a year and a half, after which they were released. At that point, the government should have intervened. The government could have been expected to make every effort to prevent the two from coming to the Netherlands. At all costs, make every effort to prevent these Muslim fundamentalists from ever setting foot on Dutch soil again. But the opposite happened. The government made sure that they got travel documents, so that they could finally come to the Netherlands. Weren't there any possibilities to keep them out of the Netherlands? Didn't justice offer any way out? Was the government legally obliged to bring them here? I think there were possibilities. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap is very clear about this. Article 14 (4) states, in short, that in the interests of national security, the Minister may withdraw the Dutch nationality of a person if his conduct shows that he has joined a terrorist organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u75	Go round up, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u76	The government should always put the safety of the Dutch at the forefront of these issues. In the many questions, letters from the government and debates where this issue has been raised, it is repeatedly pretending that this is the case. But now my question is: because my speaking time is at its end why the nationality of these two gentlemen has not been withdrawn. It could have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u78	And then a final question: where are they now? There's no record of a trial in the Netherlands, when they should be on trial for those facts. There's no record of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u79	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 15 minutes. I shall suspend the sitting until 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u80	I will be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u81	Mr President, thank you. We are discussing an extremely complex dossier with each other tonight. This is an issue that affects our national security, but also the international legal order, the Dutch rule of law and the lives of men, women and children. We see daily images of the distressing conditions in the camps. I note that cabinet policy has always been and still is that it does not focus on the return of Dutch extravagants and their children. These are people who deliberately and knowingly made the choice to leave the Netherlands to join terrorist organisations. But I have also always said that children are the victims of their parents' decisions. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of a ruling from a Dutch judge, who assigned two orphans to a Dutch guardian, those two Dutch orphans were brought back to the Netherlands on 10 June. It was a unique situation in which two young Dutch orphans lived in a camp in Syria under appalling circumstances and without any kind of parental authority. A Dutch guardian was thus appointed. However, I would like to point out that the recall of these two Dutch orphans fits within the cabinet policy. I refer to my letter of 21 February 2019. I quote from this: 'According to the situation of Dutch children who are left behind alone', 'the provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child are even more important. Against this background, the cabinet is studying whether and how the children of deceased extravagants can return to the Netherlands." I reiterated this on 26 April 2019 in the reply to parliamentary questions by Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Kikken, by the way, with a reference to the February 2019 letter for the articles of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Mr. Chairman. I will investigate further whether it is possible for ten Dutch female Syrians to come with their children to the safe area, so that they can be tried in the Netherlands. That is at the request of the Rotterdam Court. I also wrote to the Chamber in detail about this in the letter of 21 February 2019. The Cabinet shall examine how that request can be implemented. The Iraqi government has recently announced that it will not prosecute those ten female Dutch extravagants. I've informed the Chamber about that. That statement from the Iraqi government is one of the many elements that the cabinet involves in its investigation and further considerations. On the basis of the facts and current circumstances now known, the cabinet finds that the return to the Netherlands of the ten Dutch female extravagants cannot be achieved in a safe and responsible manner by the Dutch government's efforts to execute the orders of imprisonment. I would like to stress that this is an intermediate stage in the ongoing investigation. I will constantly and closely involve the ever-changing situation and circumstances. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also been informed about this intermediate position. Mr. Chairman. Let there be no mistake that this cabinet attaches great importance to the detection and trial of ISIS fighters. Innocence cannot be the answer to their crimes. The cabinet's commitment to trial is broad and focuses on multiple tracks, both nationally and internationally. On the question of detection and trial, the cabinet also looks at the possibilities of withdrawing Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. I refer to what has been said by Mr Laan in that regard. This is a legislative proposal which was adopted and implemented only a few years ago by the majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u82	Thanks for the nuanced introduction. I have another question about that court request for those ten women and children. Has it been investigated whether these women and children could be carried out at the same time as the French action and the two orphans? What's that gotten into? I ask this because the Kurds have indicated that they are prepared to do anything to make this possible. The Iraqis seem to have indicated to the Minister that the passage and transit should not be a problem. So what encountered the execution of that court order on the basis of which the Minister concludes that this could not be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u83	The Foreign Minister will discuss the unique possibility, as I have mentioned, of picking up these two orphans. That is something I can say about which is already in public, namely that this has been done through a French military mission in which the Netherlands was finally allowed to participate for those two orphans. As far as the group concerned is concerned, I have always made it clear in this Chamber that the cabinet has three fixed criteria. First of all, the unsafe area. We're not gonna send government representatives in there. Secondly, there must be diplomatic links somewhere to be able to speak or negotiate. Thirdly, I have always said that safety must be guaranteed for those concerned. Focused: the Iraqi authorities have indicated that, in so far as the arrival on Iraqi territory of the group of women for whom that request was made by the court, they would not prosecute women under the Iraqi criminal justice system. There are such things as the death penalty and so on. Of course, the Dutch government can't go along with that. That part would at least not be an obstacle in the current state of affairs. But for the rest, there is still an unsafe area and there is still the problem of diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u84	This too is an analytical explanation which I can follow, if it is not that the two thresholds which the Minister now mentions are both poor in the action on the orphans. There was a Dutch official present in unsafe area and there was contact with the Kurds. In other words, the rules obviously didn't apply at the time. My question to this minister is why this unique situation has not been used to respond to the judicial appeal to ensure that those people are indeed punished for what they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u85	I think I have two things to make clear. The first is something I have already said and what I have even quoted in my introduction: focusing on the situation of orphans, the provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child have a more profound meaning. This concerns "an intruder meaning" in relation to non-children. That's one. This means that the Dutch government, which I have always written, has always looked more closely at a unique possibility or something like that with regard to orphans. The second is, as I explained, that there was the possibility of letting these two orphans go with the French. By the way, let it be clear: the French have already picked up these two orphans in the camp. There was no Dutchman on the mission who made this appointment in order. The honourable Member will discuss this further. But there was only that unique opportunity for those two orphans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u86	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u87	To make sure that I understand the Minister correctly: in fact, the Minister says that there was a unique situation where we were able to ride with the French. I understand that very well: they have military presence on the ground and we do not have it. But I understand that this has been submitted to the French and that the French have refused to do so. Is that a correct explanation of what the Minister is saying now? Has this been requested and did the French say that we are not going to do so? Or hasn't this even been presented at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u88	The French mission will be dealt with in detail by the colleague. That mission has always focused on orphans and not on women and children. That's one. But the honourable Member will be able to comment on this in greater detail later. Secondly, I keep saying, but Mr Sjoerdsma has not taken up this point anymore: I have always indicated that there is a more pressing situation with regard to orphans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u89	The Minister and the cabinet have been very clear in recent months and years, but I note that there is a considerable gap with what the Chamber is asking here, namely that we do not want these people in the Netherlands. The Minister states that he is going to do his utmost to bring these people to justice, and he creates a number of conditions for this, which are mainly about the safety of our own people. If you conclude that we will proceed to trial if those conditions are met, then there is only one route left, namely: to get to the Netherlands and try here. I notice there's a light in there. We in the Chamber say that we do not want that and the Minister says that he sees only one option. How's the minister gonna settle that light? How is he gonna keep those people there if we want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u90	Let me put it this way: I have already said that the cabinet's commitment is to try widely, on multiple tracks, nationally and internationally. There are ISIS fighters, who are suspected of being involved in ISIS, who have arrived in the Netherlands or in neighbouring countries and are tried here. I have also indicated that we are committed to a tribunal for international trial. The honourable Member will go into this in more detail. From my position as Minister of Justice, I believe that the starting point should be that people should be tried where they have committed their crimes. I have said this several times in your Chamber. We are only concerned with the fact that one of the countries that would be eligible has a criminal justice system in which there are some fundamentally different principles than we have. That's what I've been telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u91	The Minister is clear and he has also been clear. It's all clear. However, it is clear to me how it works. At the moment when Syria and Iraq are no longer combat areas, as we call them in the letters, and the situation there becomes relatively safe for our people too, we will have to stand there. And if there is not something arranged to keep the people there on the spot and to judge them, then they come here and we will have to judge them here in the Netherlands. That is my conclusion, and I think the Minister means to say the same, even if he does not say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u92	Well, yes, I would just like to refer to the questions that are about to be answered about the pursuit of an international tribunal and so on. Because I think that then what I said earlier will be ignored, namely that the cabinet is working on different tracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u93	I wonder whether the Minister sees that there is sometimes tension or perhaps even conflict between two objectives he has mentioned. One thing is: we don't really want the people here. I'm just saying domestic, and we sometimes even take away their Dutch nationality or passport. That's one. The other thing is that we want them to be tracked down and tried. Those two could be in conflict with each other. I would like to ask the Minister if he sees it that way. If he is, he has to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u94	That depends for a moment, because the withdrawal of nationality from people with dual nationality does not mean that they will be excluded from any form of trial. That wasn't said. So I don't know if that's the opposite of each other. I keep repeating that the cabinet has an approach that focuses on multiple tracks. In this connection, as I have already explained, your Chamber is relatively recent, and I think that is also what I have said a few times in this Chamber. I will come to that in a moment, but I would like to say a few words about that. We are therefore looking at the possibilities of withdrawing Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security or other interests. In this connection, moreover, there is an ongoing implementation of last year's motion by Mrs Laan and Mrs Van Toorenburg to assess the dossiers of all well-known Dutch travellers on the possibility of withdrawing Dutch citizenship. But once again, as far as I am concerned, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship does not mean that anyone will escape trial by a competent authority, even if he is staying in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u95	No, that is, of course, in theory correct, but it does mean that someone no longer has the opportunity to come here. This means, for us, that we no longer have the opportunity to arrest, bring a person to justice and condemn if he has committed crimes. That is precisely why I am asking whether the Minister, like me, can see that there can be a tension between our desire to track down and bring those people to justice, and what has been made legally possible. The Minister is right to say that a large part of this Chamber has agreed to this. That doesn't oblige you to do it; it makes it possible to do it. So my question is: in some cases, wouldn't that mean that you're giving up the instruments to arrest someone and try them out of your hands, that you're actually taking those instruments off your hands by saying, "I'm taking your passport, I'm looking the other way and I'm not involved anymore?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u96	I do not want to try to say it more beautiful than it has already been indicated by the Member of Parliament Laan in her first term, but if you read back the parliamentary history of that bill, you can see that the intention was very clear to say: people who enter into such terrorist crimes with "going in" I mean: they commit or are complicit in doing so or making it easier to do so are deprived of nationality. Then it is a question of dual nationality, because apparently they have another nationality, and apparently they have completely turned away from all our social and legal principles. This means that we are indeed saying: in some cases it is up to other tribunals or courts to judge those people. That is the consequence of that. I think that's part of the trade-off you made as a chamber. I'm not gonna stand here right now... No, sorry. I also support the fact that we are doing this; let us be clear about that. However, I would like to remind you that this has been a relatively recent democratic decision-making process. I would like to return to this point: I would like to stress my apology for taking a moment, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to say that it is really important that people, especially if they have been deprived of double Dutch nationality, account for their actions as much as possible where they have committed them and where they have affected their victims or simply brutally murdered them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u97	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u98	I do not dispute that this is a democratic decision taken by this Parliament. My question was whether it might sometimes mean taking ourselves out of our hands instruments to prosecute and prosecute. The Minister is right to say that he attaches such importance to this. Then the Minister says: yes, it is a democratic decision taken in this Chamber. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u99	Yeah, but I said a little more. If you do not mind, Mr President, it is fine that Mr Van Ojik and I are going to talk about this very briefly. I have said that we have said together here, I was not there at the time, but I fully support it; let it be clear that we must take away the Dutch nationality of people of dual nationality and who have been criminally opposed to the rule of law and to ordinary individuals in the rule of law. They'll always have that other nationality. That means we're basically putting these people out of our jurisdiction when they get there. That is a consequence that we chose together at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u101	That does not mean that they will avoid their trial, because the cabinet will continue to bet on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u103	I repeat: the cabinet continues to bet on that. Mr. Chairman. The first inventory following the motion of members Van Toorenburg and Laan I expect to be ready for the summer recess in collaboration with the Secretary of State for Justice and Security; this is a joint responsibility. I'll inform your room about that. I don't want to anticipate that right now. I would like to point out that, looking at the number of travellers, it is currently expected that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship will be possible in a limited number of cases. I shall come back to that in a little bit. Mr. Chairman. Travellers returning from the battle zone may pose a threat to safety in the Netherlands. The same goes for women. As the returnee may have committed criminal offences, the criminal possibilities are leading in the first instance. After detention, these people will be part of our society again. We are already facing the challenge of reintegrating people who have returned to the Netherlands outside the old extremist network and deradicalising wherever possible. That is an aspect which is very much the focus of the prison system and the probation and thus of my ministry. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the question. I promise to do so as quickly as possible. I shall begin with Mr Van Ojik's question on cabinet policy for children and families of travellers. I repeat that the Netherlands is not taking any action aimed at or supporting the recovery of Dutch travellers. The considerations on this matter are well known, and I have just reworded them. It is recorded in many letters and in oral consultations with your Chamber. I also referred to those two orphans. I would ask the President to bring the letters of 21 February and the letter of 26 April 2019 to the attention of your members with the answers of parliamentary questions. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Graaf asked how I would prevent jihadists from entering the Netherlands. Am I gonna close the borders? Anyone who enters the Netherlands or another Schengen Member State via the Schengen external border will be subject to border controls. Within the EU, we have the free movement of persons. The cabinet does not consider closing internal borders to be a realistic solution, let alone a structural solution. In order to recognise jihadists, national and international cooperation and information is shared. In the CT-head group, the counter-terrorism head group within the EU, I have very regular consultations with colleagues from the other Schengen countries who have also been affected by these issues. That is where we speak very well about the problems, because other countries also have them. Finally, I would like to say very quickly that, for example, a country such as Sweden has much bigger problems, because it has a much larger jihadistic exit population and does not have such sharp legislation as we have made happy with each other. That is why international cooperation is of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u104	My question is not about this point, but about the previous point, actually about the Minister's reply to Mr Van Ojik; excuse the Minister for the fact that I am going back. Can I draw your attention to the fact that, in fact, there is hardly any democratic control over the return of persons? The Foreign Minister said last time that the return of the two orphans was a completely unique case. The Minister of Justice and Security always says: we do not talk about individual cases. That is already in conflict with each other, but he also says that we depend on what the judge says abroad and on those international treaties. Can I indeed draw the conclusion that we are debating almost nothing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u105	No, absolutely not. I would like to say this very encouragingly to Mr De Graaf. I believe that this cabinet has a clear and, at least as long as I am a minister, but as far as I am concerned also in the years before, very consistent policy. I explained that policy. So we don't have to talk about that for long. As I have just said, this cabinet is committed to international cooperation in the field of detection, prosecution and trial of the people who have been involved in the crimes of ISIS, or IS, or Daesh, whatever you want to call it. In any case, it is quite clear that this cabinet will immediately take the people who somehow reach the Netherlands into detention and put them into criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u106	Thanks, but still the practice is that we as a chamber fish every time something happens behind the net. Let's get a case. For example, one of the first known distributors of the Netherlands was Angela B., I think from Soest or somewhere in that area. I think he's still in Al-Hol in Syria. This jihadist, for that is she, who also convinced others to go to the caliphate because of the delicious food, eventually comes back to the Netherlands. That is what we fear, and with me, with the PVV, there are many more people who fear it. Are we going to fish behind the net again or is the Minister saying: no, I will tell you in advance that she is coming and you will have the opportunity to do something about it democratically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u107	First of all, I think it is extremely unlikely that Angela B., or anyone who might be involved in jihadist activities, especially jihadist crimes, will inform me or my officials in advance of travel movements. Anyway, it could be on its own. I think that, under the rule of law, it is then up to the police and the Public Prosecutor to take the persons concerned into custody and prosecute them. I would like to stress that I have always made it clear to the Chamber that when people who have committed jihadist crimes report to a Dutch consulate in safe territory, they will immediately be transferred to the Royal Marechaussee, who will transfer them to the Netherlands for further trial. As far as children are concerned, they will be placed under the care of the Children's Protection Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u108	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u109	You say Angela B. wouldn't inform us, whether you or your officials, of her travel movements. I think she said in April in the Volkskrant that she would very much like to go back to the Netherlands, or to Portugal. That was shown on Portuguese television, because there was an interview with her. So she does inform people in advance of the fact that she wants to go back. The Minister and his officials encourage everyone to go to the consulate in particular, so that they can go back to the Netherlands, even though, of course, they will be tried first, according to the Minister. The end of the song is that such a person, whether she goes to Portugal or to the Netherlands, because also Portugal is in the Schengen area.. will walk free again in the Netherlands. If I have listened to the Minister correctly, we have not been able to do anything about it as a Chamber. It is therefore outside the democratic control of the Chamber. And that's serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u110	There's been a big misunderstanding here. It is certainly not the case that I or any other member of the cabinet would encourage or invite people who have been involved in ISIS to register with a consulate. On the contrary, we say that we do not enter unsafe territory. That story is well known. If someone suspected of being involved with ISIS reports to a Dutch consulate, I am thinking in particular of Erbil..................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. This brings me to a not insignificant question from Mr De Graaf about the penalty for terrorism. Most terrorist crimes in the Netherlands are subject to severe penalties at the level of the law. The maximum penalty for terrorist offences is in principle one third higher than for other serious crimes in the Criminal Code. Maximum legal penalties for terrorist offences in the Netherlands are very similar to those in a number of other Western European countries. For example, I have already mentioned the example of Sweden, where there is a considerably less well-suited criminal instrument for terrorist crimes. I see no reason to change the law on that point. In the meantime, the Act proposes criminalisation of residence in a terrorist controlled area. So in that respect, I am in the process of extending the description of offences that are punishable. It is clear that the level of punishment depends on the circumstances of the case. I would like to point out that the law applies to everyone, regardless of whether it is a man or a woman. That is also true of the punishment. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of deradicalisation. Mr Van Ojik asked if we were able to continue to monitor returners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u111	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u112	I have another question about punishment. We have repeatedly called for these people to be tried on the basis of genocide. When is this finally going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u113	There will be a very soon - I thought that in the Chamber's reply a question on this point was also answered - a letter to your Chamber on the question asked about a special prosecutor specialising in genocide. I must admit to Mr Van Toorenburg that this will be after the summer recess, but I really hope to be able to discuss this with your Chamber soon afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u114	A few minutes before the debate began, I did indeed see that question about that special officer. But we have been talking about it for one and a half or two years and the question remains whether the genocide trial can and why it still does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u115	I'll come back to that before the recess in that letter. So that's in the next ten days. Mr Van Ojik asked about the control of returners, deradicalisation programmes and so on. In the run-up to a possible release, special conditions may be imposed in the context of a partially conditional prison sentence or conditional release, including a location or contact ban. This will be monitored by the specialised TER team. TER stands for terrorism, extremism and radicalisation. If the criminal framework is no longer available, the person in question will be monitored under the direction of the municipality in a multidisciplinary case consultation. The interventions there are case-dependent and vary in intensity, form and degree of compulsion. Let's get that straight. As a general rule, a combination of monitoring and enforcement options and/or personal guidance is used. That really depends on the case. In addition, police and AIVD make an assessment of the threat and keep the person in question, if deemed necessary by the services, in sharp focus and alert. Painfully, we saw that in the group of seven that was arrested last September in my mind, Arnhem and Weert. There was someone who would have been deradicalized, but who was then again on the wrong radicalised path. But all this time, the AIVD had decided to keep an eye on that. So once again, in a mixture of measures aimed at the individual case, we are working towards this, but we are also looking at whether monitoring by the services remains necessary. Then I come to the issue of the grandfather in Ede. Let me say first of all that I cannot go into that individual case. I have assured myself that the whole institutional procedure was followed in this case, through youth services and the Council for the Protection of the Child. In the end, a judicial decision has just been taken. I can't go into that case myself. That would be really contrary to my position, but I can learn from it. That is what we have said to each other: this is a relatively new problem and we must take our painful lessons from it. There were several questions about the minors, as well as some about the proposal of the Kinderombudsman/Kinderombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u116	I fully understand that the Minister cannot deal with an individual case. He shouldn't. He mentions learning points that he can get out. Could he possibly specify it? I also specifically asked about the transfer of information, for example, because that is where it seems to have gone wrong. Is that one of those things you learn? Or what are you thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u117	Now, if I'm going to focus on this case, tell you what I'm thinking about, I'm going to make a clear link with that case again. I would, however, like to say to your Chamber that in the autumn I will come up with what we are currently getting out of this problem, on which we will have to monitor very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u118	Clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u120	Mr. Chairman. Then the Children's Ombudsman, Mrs. Kalverboer. I myself had a long conversation with the Kinderombudsman a while ago. I think it is very good that we are talking to all those involved in that debate. By which I really mean the parties in a literal sense. The Kinderombudsman's proposal is based on the individual interests of the children. In the case of children whose parent is still alive, it is not possible to separate the recovery from the return of that parent, since the separation of parents and children is legally complex. I would also like to take a look at Mr Sjoerdsma immediately, if you do not point that out to me, and not to Mr Sjoerdsma, at the idea of having declarations of will signed at some point on the surrender of children. But that is, of course, an extremely dubious construction in family law. I do not think we should... But I'm sure he didn't mean it that way. I hear he didn't even say it. In any case, I would just like to point out that the legal situation is very complex. In addition to the importance of the child, which the Kinderombudsman quite rightly defends, I must also consider what the return of the parents of minors has to do with national security. The proposal to examine the interests of every child through an independent committee of experts is not realistic at the moment, I say very clearly. In order to make an explanation of these children, one will have to travel there. And that, as I have said, is not an option, given the security situation, given the absence of diplomatic relations and the fact that we are not sending people through the unsafe area. I am going to take a closer look at the Kinderombudsman's proposal and discuss it with her in order to see if other things in that proposal can take shape in any way, within the framework that we as a cabinet have to deal with. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ploumen asked for a plan for children of Dutch nationality. The camps that we know are in Dutch women and children are all in that unsafe area. Due to the insecurity there is not an option to pick up on the spot. I'm just gonna say it again. But we are following these developments closely, as I said in my introduction. I'll be right back with the children who are in Turkey. Maybe I'll answer those questions first. Then Mr Sjoerdsma can ask his question. Some of the adult travellers are in Turkey. Some are in detention or in any form of house arrest. That group can't be taken under one heading. There is a group of 30 children attached to it. There are also children in detention with their parents. At the moment there are no signals from that group about a wish to return to the Netherlands. If that wish is expressed by people, this will always be done in accordance with the Turkish authorities on that point and how they are in it. Mr. Chairman. I've already talked about the parent giving up custody. I don't want to go any further on that. I'm sorry if I didn't understand the questions about that, but at least I'd like to have said it out loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u121	The cubes might get a little mixed up. That is also because of the questions asked. I wonder if the Minister thinks that the current Dutch laws and regulations are sufficient to bring those returning here to justice and to ensure that they receive the punishment they deserve in the eyes of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u122	I didn't hear the last of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u123	It's about returners. The minister says he has to weigh security and trial. My question is whether the Minister believes that the Dutch laws and regulations are sufficient at the moment to ensure that the returners not only get the trial they deserve, but also get the punishment and the trial they deserve in the eyes of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u124	Point one. We have a rule of law which, thanks to the institutions, works very well. That is not my achievement, but that is the achievement of those institutions themselves, i.e. of justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and so on. Point two. We have some sort of criminal law that I have just said I see no reason to add to the penalty. At the moment, however, I have a single extension of the lawmaking process. I think that this clearly shows that the Dutch system for those people who have arrived in the Netherlands, former returners, is legally satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u125	There's a lot of worry, isn't there? I often read in the newspaper or hear on the news that people are worried that people who return will avoid their punishment. I hear this minister say: I am not really worried, because I see laws and regulations in order and I see a criminal justice chain that is one of the best in the world. I totally agree with him. My question is why, if so, there are so many concerns about the possible avoidance of penalties. I have only one concern myself, and I would like to put it to the Minister: it may be difficult or impossible to obtain sufficient evidence. That's what I'm asking him. Does the International Crimes Team, also heavily burdened by the MH17 and other cases, have sufficient capacity to ensure that the burden of proof is in order against the returnee and that they cannot avoid their rightful punishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u126	I had already received a question from Mr Sjoerdsma on this, so I am now doing two in one. The International Crimes Team has sufficient capacity to fulfil that role. I also said spontaneously 'aha' when Mr Sjoerdsma raised the issue of proof. I don't know if that's okay. In any case, the fact that our rule of law is working well in itself and that we are also well-equipped in criminal law does not mean that this evidence is just coming to light, on the contrary, that is incredibly difficult. This has also led us to extend the instruments of criminal law and to extend them further by criminalising the stay in the terrorist area. I do think that we should face that and that it is not possible to prove very many things that people in society sometimes find unsatisfactory. That could lead to reactions. In a rule of law, that's a point you need to pay attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u127	Please continue. Perhaps you could tell us how far along you are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u128	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u129	That sounds good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u130	Yeah? Thank you. I have already answered Mr Sjoerdsma's questions on entry when I was talking about Mr De Graaf's question. I think we should realise that travellers are being included in the Schengen Information System and that the great thing is that we will soon have the PNR system as well. This allows us to get a good picture of them along that road as they travel by plane. So that's not just for camping flights. Mr. Chairman. Then we had the withdrawal of the Dutchmanship. Mrs Laan-Geselschap asked a number of questions about this. I do not recognize the idea that the AIVD and the AIVD would not cooperate in the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. I can assure Mrs Laan that we are discussing it with each other and on top of it to see where it is possible and, if possible, to implement it in this way. At the moment it is possible to withdraw the Dutch citizenship of persons who have joined a terrorist organisation outside the Netherlands. That is therefore Article 14, fourth paragraph of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. In addition, you can either deprive people of Dutch citizenship or withdraw it from them if they have been irrevocably convicted of a terrorist offence. There is therefore no need to extend it with participation in a terrorist organisation. That is not necessary legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u131	Is this the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u132	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u133	If you only listened to the Minister's words, you'd think it's actually going well, because there's a law, we have all kinds of possibilities and everyone's working cheerfully. But the conclusion is that only a handful of people have their nationality withdrawn. On social media, we just read "there's only a few people with a double nationality." That doesn't correspond to the figures we've seen before. The Minister gave us a positive opinion, but why didn't more people actually experience the implementation of that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u134	If I have been very positive, I may have to make a correction. I wanted to point out that I do not recognize the image that OM and AIVD would not be in favour of this or would not want to participate in it. I recognize that I have already indicated this in my introduction, but I will come back to your Chamber; there will be a letter about it, but the examination of the number of cases in which it succeeds is still not entirely clear that it is not easy. Evidence issues play an important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u135	If evidence issues play a role, I hear my colleague asking what we need to do to better organise the evidence. What can we do as a Chamber to better shape those evidences, so that those people lose what they are apparently so happy about and so proud of? Apparently they want to retain the nationality and be part of our country, which they so badly wanted to destroy. We would like to see this law, which has been democratically adopted here. We want to keep progress and we want to see enthusiasm so that we know that it is really something you are going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u136	You want to know if I'm actually going for it. I can assure you that the Secretary of State and I, too, were in favour of the previous Secretary of State, Mark Harbers, and of me. This instrument has been adopted and we must be on top of it. However, the matter is often uncomfortable when it comes to the collection of evidence, which must be convincing in the context of that law. Otherwise, you're gonna put the horse behind the cart. Then you go through a weak case, then someone comes to court and then it gets much more frustrating, because then the judge says: on this basis I cannot honor the withdrawal. Then Mrs. Laan and I are much more frustrated about the fact that someone like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u137	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u138	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say that this Minister, acting under the name of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, I say this for Mr Van Oijk, because he and I have briefly talked about how it is working again recently in your Chamber stated that we are paying close attention to jezidis. I took over the Secretary of State's portfolio for a short period of time and explained that it is not under state law that I am suddenly Secretary of State, which would be a kind of wonderful miracle, but at least the new Secretary of State will inform your Chamber soon about the Jezidis in a letter, with the answer of the parliamentary questions. It really has the attention. That's what I said at the time. I think it's a terrible thing. "Something" actually doesn't say enough. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the temporary law on administrative measures. Mrs Laan asked: should we not apply this law more often? In any case, the preventive administrative measures laid down in that temporary law have proved to be valuable. The WODC published an inventory of this research report in March this year. At the end of 2019 there will be a final evaluation of that law. Then we'll talk about that, if it's okay. Finally, I have two further questions from Mr Hiddema on the Dutch identity of two extra-travelers who were detained in Turkey. I can't go into that individual case. In general, I can say that in such a case the possibility of withdrawal is always considered. The investigation into both criminal investigations is ongoing. The case is currently under trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u139	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u140	Yeah, I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u141	Mr. Sjoerdsma, a quick question. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has yet to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u142	Absolutely, Madam President. I have a question about what the Minister thought I had said, namely about the separation of mother and child. I understand his considerations. This cabinet wants trial in the region. Assuming, for a moment, that men and women will be tried: what, according to Minister Grapperhaus, should happen to the children after that trial has taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u143	That is a specific question. Now for a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u144	Well, a concrete answer. This will depend primarily on how the parents and, of course, the children themselves are in there. When a number of German women were detained in Iraq, some of these women, once convicted, asked if German child protection could take custody of their children. But there was also a German woman who didn't want to. There is therefore no clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u145	I just want to make sure I understand the Minister correctly. So there is already a forced separation of children and parents. In other words, I sometimes feel that we are trying to avoid something that is going to happen according to the strategy of this cabinet. I would like to give the Minister some thought to how we deal with it when those children are alone. In conclusion, I think it is very good that this Minister is going to examine which elements of the Kinderombudsman's proposal could be useful for cabinet policy. I would like to add the question of whether it is possible to examine whether, for example, an organisation such as Unicef or the Red Cross can make those local visits which this minister says are too unsafe for Dutch people. But maybe these organizations that already work there can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u146	Whether national or international, I have said that this is not realistic at the moment, also in view of the situation in these camps. If I were to say more about it now, I would go on at length. But that is simply not a realistic option. I take what the Children's Ombudsman has written seriously in the sense that I want to talk to her further to see what are things that we could pick up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u147	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u148	I want to be very brief. Then it will also help if that part of the question is answered. That was particularly the suggestion that if the minister looks at this, he also takes the opportunity to have organisations such as Unicef and the ICRC look at these cases, so that the individual approach advocated by the Kinderombudsman can still be implemented or an element of it can be incorporated into the cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u149	I hope Mr Sjoerdsma knows me as someone who is straightforward about business. I have already said twice that, given the situation, it is really not a realistic option at the moment. This applies to a national but also to an international contribution. I just want to be very straightforward about that. Otherwise, I'm gonna wake up illusions that shouldn't be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u150	I will come back to the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism. I have indicated that 40 cases have been considered and that in only six cases it has led to restrictions on freedom. The Minister is right to state that there has been an analysis, an evaluation of the WODC. I read that too. That is what these figures are derived from. My question to the Minister was: could he not do more with this law in hand a number of things to make people in this country feel that national security is actually being worked on? It says in the evaluation that in three cases no probation surveillance is even applied to these people, but that situation is considered to be a threat to national security. That's our motive. That's what we stand for. The Minister has an instrument here. Shouldn't this instrument now be picked up more quickly than again in the autumn with an evaluation and a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u151	Let me say this about it. It is paradoxical for me to say that I am going to take it forward, but I also need to take an evaluation. For then I would have said in advance that it has not so far been taken up vigorously. The complicated thing is, I've said, you're very mixed up with individual differences in casuism. I don't want to run away from Mrs. Laan's question. In any case, at the same time as the final evaluation we are getting, I would like to say once again whether we are looking at it vigorously and show that we have taken up a number of things where perhaps we have not. I agree with Mrs Laan that if we have such an arrangement, we should just be on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u152	I have already said that this debate was initiated by Mr De Graaf in response to the adventures of Oussama A. and Reda Nidalha, who were given transit papers from the Netherlands to stand trial here. I would like to know if they have been deprived of Dutch citizenship. Why can't the Minister answer that? I thought you said we could check the Secretary of State for law enforcement. Article 14 (4) provides that, in the interests of security, the Minister may withdraw the Dutch nationality of a person if his conduct shows that he has joined a terrorist organisation. That was true for these two. This has even been the subject of a judicial judgment from Turkey. My question is simple: has the law been applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u153	Mr Hiddema was not in the Chamber for a while, but I have already pointed out that the criminal case is against the two gentlemen. It is true that during an ongoing criminal case, which may or may not include the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, I cannot speak of this. It has not been said that the Turkish sentence simply means that Dutch citizenship can be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u154	The Minister is therefore aware that the gentlemen are currently in criminal proceedings. I asked the Minister whether he could answer the question whether they were free or not. I conclude from this answer that he is now making this withdrawal conditional on the criminal case in the Netherlands. But didn't the Minister have the authority to withdraw nationality? So he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u155	There are some misunderstandings here, I think. I'm the one who's advising on the withdrawal. The withdrawal shall be carried out by the Secretary of State. That's one. Two: as I have just indicated, there are now individual criminal cases. The consideration of submitting at any time the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is a consideration which cannot be made by me at the time when, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, that case is still under judicial review, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u156	Finally, Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u157	We're here. It is now clear that their nationality has not been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u158	I think that is a correct observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u159	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Perhaps the Minister can tell us how he has built up the answer, also in connection with possible interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u160	Yes, I will, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say to the Members of Parliament and to Mr Grapperhaus that we are having a debate here on the aftermath of the atrocious crimes committed under the reign of IS. It is quite right that we should consider the consequences in detail and ensure that the law prevails and that the safety of people in the Netherlands is guaranteed. The answer to the questions asked to me will go through the following chapters: "How do we commit ourselves to international trial?" Then there are the questions that have been asked about the recent French operation on the recovery of two orphans, the questions that relate more broadly to how to deal with minors and then a pile of other questions. First of all, the commitment to international trial. The enormous importance of this does not require further explanation. From the beginning, the Netherlands is therefore leading the way in setting up what is needed for this. That begins with a collection of evidence. A number of Members of the House raised the question of whether the trial is taking place in the Netherlands, in another country by an international tribunal or in another way, but it starts with evidence collection. That is a task in itself. We realized that early. The Netherlands also plays an important role in setting up international evidence collection mechanisms: the evidence bank for Syria, internationally known as IIIM, the UN mission for Iraq, UNAMI, and the UN investigation team for crimes committed by IS in Iraq, UNITAD. In all these mechanisms, the Netherlands is a major financier. A great deal of evidence has also been collected that can be used anywhere in the world. But with only evidence, we can't achieve justice. We are dealing in the regions with thousands of warriors in detention. It's really about huge numbers, so it's also a huge task of logistics to allow trial to take place there. According to the Syrian-Kurdish armed forces, they also have to deal with some 70 nationalities which they hold. New prisoners are added almost daily, because IS is still active in the area, for example in the form of sleeper cells. This is also an illustration of the fact that the area is still very unsafe. The strong preference of the cabinet has trial in the region, because part of the complex evidence is that witnesses who are there can be heard. In general, it is also the logical course of events that trial takes place where the crime was committed. If a foreigner commits a crime in the Netherlands, he will be tried here. Then we will not say: go back to your country and you will be tried there. The other way around, Dutch people who commit crimes abroad are tried there too. That is therefore the main route for the trial of crimes and, therefore, for these very serious and special crimes. Having said all that, this trial in the region is easier said than done. There is broad agreement that trial is necessary, but there is no agreement on how. The strong Dutch preference is to do so on the basis of a UN resolution. We need the Security Council for that. International tribunals have been mentioned as examples in the past, generally based on UN resolutions. But the hard reality is that within the UN Security Council, at least the Russian Federation and China do not support an international tribunal. That remains our commitment, by the way. The Chamber also knows that, both during our own membership and during a recent visit to the Security Council, I continued to make that plea. In addition, there are a number of thoughts about other forms of trial. We are indeed talking about this with like-minded countries. We are faced with a number of practical questions. An important point is that we are dealing with a country which uses the death penalty in the case of trial in Iraq. The Netherlands opposes the use of the death penalty anywhere in the world. In Syria itself, the regime of Assad, with which we do not maintain diplomatic relations, has a gruesome track record when it comes to justice. The Kurds are not a state. That is a number of practical dilemmas that we are facing. There is no reason to sit still; that is reason to sit on one side of the table with the countries concerned, as indeed recently in Stockholm. In the meantime, we have also organised a follow-up meeting. In addition, the Chamber knows that I have asked for advice from the international advisor. Knowing that these dilemmas exist, but we still have the desire to find a solution, I asked the external international legal adviser to come up with an opinion. He indicated that this would be available in the course of July. In the meantime, as the Netherlands, we have announced that, in parallel with the General Assembly of the United Nations, we want to organise another meeting with countries that want to put our shoulders on that international trial. In this context, Mr Sjoerdsma asked how willing the Kurds are to keep the IS fighters, including women, in detention. The Syrian Kurds themselves are not served by release, but indeed call for the readmission of prisoners. Mr Sjoerdsma pointed that out too. As the Chamber knows, the cabinet is not in favour of taking over fighters from this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u161	A question of knowledge from us to the Minister. Is it conceivable that the Syrians...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u162	Everyone's awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u163	I'm being honest now. The word "fair" seems to be a shock in this room. Is it conceivable that Syrians will be extradited by the Kurdish authorities in Syria to the Kurdish authorities in Iraq for local trial there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u164	I do not want to pre-empt too much the advice of the international consultant. It calls first of all for the cooperation of the Kurdish authorities in Iraq. I can't decide that for them. Then there are a number of legal questions. You can imagine that they could be tried for crimes they committed there. That is possible, because part of the Kurdish part of Iraq was a battle zone. Mosul is a well-known example of this. This raises the question: can you try for crimes committed there on the territory of Syria? Typically the kind of question that forms part of the questions to the international advisor. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether a plan B would be considered if a tribunal were not to proceed. I really think that I should now, out of total conviction, end those different routes to a tribunal, however difficult, and, in the meantime, continue to gather evidence, because, no matter how that trial takes place, you need that evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u165	Have you answered all of Mr Sjoerdsma's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u166	It is in the field of trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u167	Any other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u168	Well, I have other chapters on which Mr Sjoerdsma has also asked questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u169	I wanted a little... But I didn't limit the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u170	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u171	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u172	Thank you, Madam President. I have a brief question about what the Minister was touching about the fact that the Kurds are currently guarding these international fighters and preventing them from escaping. I wanted to ask two questions. They may also be knowledge questions, even if I don't want to buy a vowel. I would like to know whether it is true that the Kurds' military capacity to guard these people has been reduced. Let me ask that question first. I see the chairman's very strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u173	Yeah, you got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u174	I don't have any information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u175	That is also very easy and indeed short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u176	I think that's important. The second question I would like to ask is whether it is true that in recent months foreign fighters have also escaped the Kurds and that this is partly due to the capacity of the Kurds to actually guard these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u177	I can't rule that out, but I'm gonna check for the second term to see if I have any hard information on escaped prisoners. That there is a risk of escape, I will immediately agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. I'll see if I have any concrete examples. Mr Drost asked what the Dutch commitment was at the September meeting at the United Nations. In September I received the opinion of the external international legal adviser. There has now been at least one follow-up meeting, possibly more, with the like-minded countries that we have also spoken to earlier in Stockholm. I hope to be one step further. Then Mr Drost asked if I could indicate which part of the Dutch extraditors is eligible for trial by such an international tribunal. That's a very difficult assessment. We have seen international tribunals in different forms in the past. Some tried the leaders; others threw out the net wider. In addition, you have the practical question of the taking of evidence. Do you have enough evidence for all these people to bring them to justice? Our underlying goal is to try all those who have committed crimes, but it is now too early to assess which part of the Dutch will eventually be brought before such an international tribunal. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked for lessons from experience with the Nuremberg Tribunal on the basis of the advice requested from the external international legal adviser. Now, of course, it is difficult to learn lessons from such a loaded tribunal as Nuremberg. I can only mention a number of characteristics that indicate the complexity of the equation. At the start of Nuremberg there was no United Nations Security Council, but the Allies were those countries which were at the heart of that Security Council rather shortly afterwards. So you can say that there was some kind of authorization afterwards. Secondly, and this touches on an answer that I just gave to Mr Drost: Nuremberg is an example of a tribunal where leaders have been tried. Later, people who were not leaders, but who had committed the most terrible crimes, were still tried in all kinds of other places in the world. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked me to go to trial for genocide. Mr Grapperhaus also spoke about this. In my speech at the United Nations, I indicated that there are strong indications that crimes against the Jezidis certainly have the character of genocide. The legal practice is that the legal predicate genocide is either determined by the UN Security Council, which has not done so to date, or by an international court. On behalf of the Netherlands, I did indeed give the lead. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to address the questions that have been asked about the French action on the return of orphans and the wider question of how to deal with minors. Mr De Graaf asked for an explanation of the presence of the Dutch official and how this relates to the cabinet policy not to bring Dutch people into dangerous territory. I indicated two weeks ago in Question Time that this was a very special situation: two orphans on which the judge laid down custody of the Dutch State; we have no other examples of this situation; we have a highly secure French mission specifically aimed at recovering orphans, because France also had to deal with some of these cases. I can't go public with the details of the operation. It's surrounded by very high security safeguards. Then there is no need to explain the details. But part of the operation was a transfer, which indeed appeared in the media after that. That transfer required the presence of the Dutch consular representative in order to sign the transfer document, and that took place for this very special situation. Mr De Graaf also asked to comment on the order of the information about it. The cabinet, of course, decided immediately at the time we gave our consent to this operation that the Chamber should be informed immediately when that could be done safely, i.e. when the participants in the operation were in safety. The information provided by the Kurdish authorities on the ground has been released earlier. It was also given to a journalist at the time, but the cabinet felt bound by the agreement not to provide information as a cabinet before the moment when everyone was back in safe territory. That explains the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u178	Yes. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u179	I can imagine the latter. Thank you to the Minister for replying. However, the issue remains: the presence of the Director of Consular Affairs. We have had to hear this through a video on Twitter. Why wasn't that just reported to the Chamber, also given the order, when the place for the people involved was safe again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u180	In such a very sensitive and risky operation, confidentiality is important. The Dutch cabinet therefore feels bound to do so. We have shown this in order, but also in not showing on our part who took part in that operation when. When the video came out, not my action, but it came out, of course, I confirmed what everyone could see: yes, there was an official who was under my responsibility. But it wasn't our initiative to bring that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u181	This, of course, all contributes very much to the perception that we do not have democratic control, that we constantly have the idea of getting behind the facts and that we cannot get our finger behind it. Of course, safety is important for everyone involved. But if such a detail, an important detail, is omitted in a letter but appears via a video on Twitter, then at least the feeling of being fooled comes to mind. If the Minister says 'I do not want to share this data', we believe that it remains to be concluded that there is indeed no democratic control over this kind of process. Then the room is out of play. That is something I have often said in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u182	A government sometimes stands for the fact that very security sensitive secret operations must take place. There was an example of this now, but it happens more often. That responsibility weighs heavily on my colleagues and me; that is part of government. That is even more important for men and women who go into those dangerous areas themselves. There is no way that we can give prior information about this. We would put people in enormous danger. Wherever possible, we'll do it afterwards, as in the letter. But in general, we cannot go into detail about how such an operation takes place, because you have to have secret operations more often and do not want details of it to be known. That's the dilemma of government. I am convinced that we have made the right assessment. But indeed, in a rugged, unsafe world, you cannot let everything take place in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u183	Finally, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u184	Finally, yes. Twice there have been reports of that consular assistance, or of people from the Ministry who have been working in the area collecting information and such. Finally, could the Minister perhaps take up the question of consular activism again in this small block? Or can he honestly deny it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u185	All consular activities are under my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u186	Please continue. I'd also like to know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u187	I'm about halfway across the block about this operation right now, or... minors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u188	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u189	Mrs Ploumen asked how we deal with children of extravagants who are in prison. That's what she described as being an effective orphan. I am looking for Mrs Ploumen in the Chamber right now, but she is not here right now. I am sure she will read the report. Again, the policy of the cabinet has not changed. At the moment, I am not aware of a specific case which it is referring to, but the criteria we are applying are: we are not bringing people to unsafe areas. Those criteria continue to apply. Ms Ploumen asked to comment on a media report about two young children. The only media report I know about this is about two children who are not Dutch nationals. That's about a case the mother died of. I thought she was Lithuanian. The father's in captivity. In that case, the children do not have Dutch nationality. Ms Laan also asked to address the position of children whose parents are in detention. First of all, it is important for the Netherlands to support humanitarian aid organisations, including in the camps, because we are aware that the situation there is serious. There is no specific policy aimed at children whose parents are in detention. This is also the subject of the general policy that we are not going to bring Dutch officials to dangerous areas. Ms Laan also asked for consular assistance outside of safe territory. We do not provide that kind of assistance. Nor are we able to do that, nor do we have diplomatic representation in Syria. We have always indicated that if someone reaches a Dutch diplomatic post, he or she will receive consular assistance there. The relevant legislation is the Passport Act. There is no law on consular assistance, because that is a fairly broad concept. There's the Passport Act. There is also case law on this, which shows that if someone is of Dutch nationality, travel documents must be provided, regardless of whether or not someone has committed a crime. So as unique as the situation around ISIS is, it has occurred more often that someone who committed a crime is reporting to a Dutch diplomatic representation. Mr Drost also asked whether we are going to bring other children back now if they are in terrible conditions. There is no such intention, along the same line of reasoning that I and my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, have always expressed. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a few questions that fell outside these two chapters. The first question is from Mr Van Ojik and Mr Sjoerdsma. Is there a request from the US to repatriate IS fighters of Dutch nationality? That request has indeed been made publicly by the United States, so it is well known. But that has not been a reason for the cabinet to come to a decision other than that of the Chamber. Mr. Sjoerdsma still asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u190	Before you continue, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u191	The Minister said that he closed the block on the French mission, that is what I call it. I would like to ask him about this. The cabinet has always stressed, and both rulers have done so tonight, the uniqueness of the situation under which we have worked to bring children in. Can the Minister exclude that there are similar cases in that group of about 90 children who are still in Syria and Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u192	These are the only two children for whom custody has been granted to the Dutch State. That makes this case very special. This places a responsibility on the Dutch State. There are currently no other cases to which that criterion applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u193	When it comes to the responsibility of the Dutch State, you can of course say: the judge has granted custody. That only happened in these two cases. Given the circumstances in which children are in those camps, the risk of radicalisation, the lack of parental authority, you could also say the following. That is important, because that is also what the Children's Ombudsman points out: by not doing so, you are also at great risk. That's what she also says in her letter to the cabinet. Hence my question, apart from that court ruling the Minister points out. Is it possible that there are similar cases among those 90 children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u194	The view that there would be similar cases, I really do not share, because of the special position: these are orphans whose custody was finally placed with the Dutch State. Mr Van Ojik pointed out that there could also be risks associated with keeping children there. They are in addition to the other risk of putting Dutch officials at risk in an operation there. A number of Members of Parliament pointed this out. The ECHR actually means that if you transfer children whose parents live, you must also give the parents access to the Netherlands. So there's a whole bay of risks coming along. That is all in all the reason that cabinet policy is as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u195	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u196	Mr Sjoerdsma asked to deal with the case raised recently by Parliament. He played in 2017 and involved a number of travellers, in which the Netherlands was asked to determine if they were Dutch. Specific to that case was that they were not in the battle zone at that time. Boundaries also ran differently in 2017 than they do now. The question was whether these people are Dutch. That question has been answered in the affirmative. Because there was an indication that they wanted to travel to Turkey, Turkey was informed. Of course, that is also important, because they are potentially dangerous people. Just as we hope that Turkey will inform us when they have reports that such people are travelling in our direction, it is only right that we should inform Turkey at that time. It was then decided not to support the return to the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u197	Thank you. That's where we come in... No, Mr. Sjoerdsma, I'm going to be very strict. You still have a second two-minute term. If a question from you has not been answered, you can put it in there. Thank you. I thank the Minister. No, really, we're going to the second term. You can just take your point. We're going to the second term. I give the floor to Mr de Graaf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may draw a partial conclusion following this debate, then we are indeed at the mercy of international treaties and requests from judges. I set it in my first term. Worldwide, almost everyone is responsible. So there is no democratic policy here. With the choice of open borders in combination with the international treaties, a very clear choice has actually been made, namely the choice to saddle the Netherlands with a problem. The PVV did not make that choice; the cabinet made it. We make other choices. We are indeed saying: let us make the people who cause misery and do not belong here, or who are to be denaturalized, or who have committed crimes, stateless, because it is simply no different. Let's keep it out. That's the choice we have to make. Leave them there. Close the borders. We have been chosen to keep the Netherlands safe. We were not chosen to see if a Dutchman might be at risk in a faraway country, or to have someone come in illegally. No, those boundaries need to be closed. We don't need all those distracting answers. Mr. Chairman. Finally, before I table two short motions, both of which represent a sharp choice. I asked another question to the Foreign Minister about consular activism. The Minister did not say that consular activism is not taking place. He just said it's happening under his responsibility. Is there consular activism? Is that a yes or no? Or is it ministerial activism carried out by the consul and his department? What is it exactly: does it exist or doesn't it exist? Then two brief motions, if you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to allow any jihadist (m/v) and their children, if any, to denaturalise and deport jihadists on Dutch soil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-508]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u199	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. To solve the problem with Ede and to set an example very quickly, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to denaturalize and expel the jihad grandparents from Ede and their grandchildren,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-509]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u200	Thank you, Mr President. I am also allowed to express this second term on behalf of Mrs Ploumen, my colleague from the Labour Party. I am also going to table two motions on behalf of her. They are both about the policy towards the 90 children who are at least in the camps. The motions are consistent with what the Children's Ombudsman said. I have listened carefully to the rulers and they actually say: we want to take a serious look at them, but what she is currently recommending is not realistic. I think I am quoting the Minister of Justice and Security on that point. The motions are as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at least 90 Dutch children are still trapped in camps in Syria and Iraq;]] [[noting that they are in very harsh and unsafe conditions;]] [[Whereas these are Dutch children who are not responsible for the choices made by their parents;]] [[Whereas an informed decision on possible repatriation requires consideration of the interests of the individual child;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent small committee which, in line with the recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, shall carefully consider each child, taking into account the interests of the individual child and the safety of society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-510]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u201	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at least 90 Dutch children are still trapped in camps in Syria and Iraq;]] [[noting that some of these children without parental authority are staying in a care camp;]] [[considers that these are Dutch children who are not responsible for the choices made by their parents;]] [[calls on the government to actively look for Dutch children without parents in shelter camps and to take them to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-511]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u203	I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an interesting debate, where national security is at the heart of the VVD and where it has also become clear that the Chamber has a strong opinion on this issue and in which the Chamber therefore wishes to be included. That leads to at least two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas one of the basic principles of government policy is that it does not actively target the recovery of extravagants and their minor children;]] [[Whereas also a starting point of government policy is that the Dutch government does not provide (consular) assistance in unsafe areas in Syria and Iraq;]] [[whereas the Minister of Justice and Security announced in February this year that he would like to investigate whether the Netherlands can obtain and retrieve female Syrians and their children to safe areas;]] [[Whereas the Iraqi authorities have indicated that they will not prosecute Dutch extravagants;]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps and to involve the Chamber in advance if there are any intentions regarding the return of Syrians or their wives or children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Laan-Selschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-512]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u205	I have a question to ask you to understand what this motion is about. I have just heard Minister Blok speak about the operation that has been carried out. He said that the Chamber would be informed as soon as possible, but that sometimes the cabinet would have to consider that it could not do so in advance, with a view to security. I assume I can understand Mrs Laan-Selschap so well that she does not call on the cabinet to share things that would endanger people and make such operations impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u206	I would never put Dutch employees at risk. You understand that very well. But it does mean that, if there are policy changes, we do not want to be informed afterwards or perhaps, like this evening's debate, we do want to receive letters explaining things. We simply want to be taken in time and seek the limits to be kept informed of what is happening within all the possibilities that exist. I assume that Mr Sjoerdsma cannot oppose this with all the need for transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u207	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u208	In addition, we look forward to the letter from Mr Grapperhaus and look forward to his announcements regarding the withdrawal of nationality, which is a major priority for us. I have another motion, which will also be very interesting to my colleague on Foreign Affairs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Believes that Syrians should be tried where they have committed their crimes;]] [[calls on the Government, in the light of the opinion to be delivered by the external international advisor, to look, together with a group of similar countries, at and facilitate the possibility of trial by local authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Drost and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-513]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u209	No, not about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u210	Oh. About what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u211	Following on from a question I asked in the first term. Then Mrs Laan-Selschap said: I also do not like people who are in safe territory receiving consular assistance. Remember? And I listened very carefully. The Minister said we will. Here's what I was wondering. Sometimes you can say something really cool here: I don't want this to happen. When the cabinet says "we're doing it anyway," the question is always what to do as the largest government party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u212	I hear Mr Van Ojik and I understand why he is asking that question. We have taken that information and are going to think about it. We are not now tabling a motion to amend it, but it is a consideration for us to see if we can arrange for other matters to be taken into account. It is not something we have let go of, but this information requires thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u213	Thank you. Thinking is always good. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I do have a number of comments. I thank the Ministers for answering our questions. As far as we are concerned, it has become clear in this debate that if we really want to do something about the trial of jihadists on the ground, we can do it through a criminal court or otherwise. We thank the Minister for his commitment, which he has also explained here this evening. We ask him to keep us informed. That is also why we have signed the motion that has just been tabled by Mr Laan-Geselschap and which asks the government to examine with local authorities whether there are any possibilities. One more comment about the situation in Ede. The Minister of Justice and Security replied. I think it is good that the Minister recognises that there is a new situation that we can then learn from. Understand that. Thank you for the commitment to keep us informed and to come back to this. However, I would urge him to speed this up and perhaps to look again at the case, which of course we cannot discuss in substance here, if that is possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u215	Thank you, Mr. Drost. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to both ministers for their reply. In the first term, I asked for clarification from the cabinet, but also for the political courage of this Chamber to accept and to face the fact that there is probably no perfect solution to this major problem. That, I believe, means that we must be careful not to simply restrict the freedom of choice and the possibilities for action that this cabinet has. The cabinet must also have some freedom of movement, if we are to stand together for one justice and two security. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to trial, this minister said that we are going for an international tribunal. Of course, we wholeheartedly support that. But he also said this and put a warning: unity, feasibility; it does not end. Some also talked about local trial in Syria and Iraq. I would like to ask this Minister for an explanation of the Kurdish rule of law in Northern Syria. I had come to the conclusion that there is one court, where two women, by the way, very capable women, were waving the scepter. But of course that is not the capacity for hundreds, if not thousands of warriors. Mr. Chairman. If people do return and come to the Netherlands, then we need a good safety net and we need to get them tried. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that trial is crucial to achieve justice for the crimes committed by IS fighters;]] [[noting that the collection of sufficiently convincing evidence is necessary for this purpose;]] [[whereas the International Crimes Team could be subject to additional burdens;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore whether the capacity of the International Crimes Team is sufficient to obtain sufficient evidence against IS-goers and to inform the Chamber before the end of the summer recess 2019;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Drost. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-514]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u217	Finally, Mr President. What Minister Blok said about the two travelers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u218	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u219	The Secretary of State. What he said was familiar to me. I was aware of what the cabinet did there. My question was why the cabinet did not inform the Chamber of the fact that the cabinet did so, despite written questions, despite the fact that written questions have led to a policy change and despite the fact that all the political groups in this Chamber have asked for it. It's about why that information wasn't shared. My parliamentary questions were on the desk for three months and then they were answered, but they didn't say that. The same applies to the questions of all of us here. I want these questions to be fully answered from now on and not to be slashed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u220	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. You have two minutes, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u221	I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that numerous Muslim fundamentalists, who have knowingly joined the terrorist organisation Islamic State, want to return to the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the government does not provide their consular assistance to return so that they may be tried here;]] [[Whereas serious crimes have been committed far outside the Netherlands, which makes an investigation on the ground very difficult, which means that there can be no effective trial in practice;]] [[Considering that the Muslim terrorists who are being tried are often at large within a few years and therefore pose a very high risk to national security;]] [[calls on the government at all times, at all costs, to prevent Muslim fundamentalists from returning to the Netherlands, on whom there is a reasonable suspicion that they have committed terrorist offences, and not to neglect any means to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-515]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u222	Do you want me to do another one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u223	No, you're fine. But it's the first time I've been through this. Thank you. The minister's ready to go. That's very nice. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u224	Mr. Chairman. I'll discuss the vast majority of the motions. I would like to say to Mr Drost that I will answer his question on the issue in Ede. Mr President, then there are the motions. In the motion in part No. 508 by Mr De Graaf is asked not to allow any jihadist on Dutch soil and to denaturalize and deport jihadists already returned. I don't recommend that motion. When a jihadist is arrested, trial will follow in the Netherlands, as I have just indicated. In the motion in part No. 509 the government is invited to denaturalize and expel the jihad grandparents from Ede and their grandchildren. I must also advise against it. Nationality may be withdrawn if affiliation to a terrorist organisation has been proven and even after an irrevocable conviction for a terrorist offence. This is conditional on double nationality. Then the motion to part No. 510 on the individual assessment committee. I'm not going to go into it in detail anymore, but I'm going to advise against this motion. I have already indicated that the setting up of such a committee, which would have to establish it per child, is not realistic at the moment. The same applies to the motion in part No. 511, which is a variation on that theme. I also advise against that motion. Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 512. I would like to make this point. I have already said before in your Chamber that I will report it here if it is active about the advance declaration to the Chamber if there are any intentions regarding the return of Syrians. This does not apply in the case of certain secret operations, but that has just been mentioned in the question I believe Mr Sjoerdsma or Mr Van Ojik's question; I have just lost that. So I am looking at it, because as the motion has now been formulated, I should advise against it. On the other hand, if the minus point of the secret operations, as promised, were to be removed, then the motion would support policy. You have always told me that I must advise her not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u225	"Supporting policy" we no longer know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u226	No, you don't remember. That's true. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u227	So you need to see what the verdict is. I'm also looking at Mrs. Laan-Selship.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u228	Let me put it this way: if I may read the motion in such a way that it is indeed about the intention of recovering Syrians, with the exception of secret operations, then I can leave her judgment to Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u229	Is that the case, Mrs. Laan-Selschap?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u230	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u231	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u232	Mr. Chairman. I have the motion by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Toorenburg on item No. 514 on the capacity of the International Crimes Team. I shall leave that motion to the House of Justice, on the understanding that I will return to it before the end of the summer recess if the motion is adopted. Finally, I have Mr Hiddema's motion on item No. 515. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. In connection with a terrorist organisation and if there is a dual nationality, Dutch citizenship can be withdrawn with the aim of preventing the return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u233	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister. I think he has two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr De Graaf asked me to go into the concept of consular activism. That's a concept he introduced. So I have to try to interpret what he means by that. Consular work is often very complicated work. It is indeed a matter of human suffering and crimes committed, and it is taking place in all kinds of places in the world. I'm proud of the people who do that. Whether you call it consular activism or give it another name, they do so under my responsibility. So you can always call me on that. I can confirm to Mr Drost that we remain fully committed to the establishment of a criminal court and a form of international trial. This is also in line with the motion he has tabled together with Mrs Laan and Mrs Van Toorenburg, which calls on the government, in the light of the opinion to be delivered by the external international advisor, to look, together with similar countries, at the possibility of trial by local authorities. I would therefore like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. Mr Sjoerdsma asked me for an explanation of the Kurdish rule of law in Northern Syria, if I understand correctly. That is part of the point I also mentioned in the direction of Mrs Laan. Because there is no Kurdish state in Northern Syria, this raises questions of international law: on what basis is the law spoken? The Kurdish state in northern Iraq is governed by the Iraqi rule of law, a state with which we are indeed discussing trial, but where our concerns about the death penalty apply. Mr Sjoerdsma asked why the questions on the four travellers were answered so late. I was not immediately aware of that, but I can imagine Mr Sjoerdsma's annoyance. The answer to Parliament's questions must be faster. I'm responsible for that. It's been too long. He's right about that. That wasn't because we wanted to hide something, because I just indicated what was going on. That is according to the agreed policy. In doing so, I have responded to the questions and motions addressed to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u235	Thank you. Is the motion in part No. 510 by Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u236	Yeah, judgment room, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u237	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u238	That was a joke!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u239	Now you're forcing me to a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u240	The motion has been dissuaded, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u241	I expect to be done by 0.30 tonight. Yeah, that's what you get, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u242	Thank you. We have come to the end of the debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the MPs, the officials, the stenography service and the clerks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u243	You too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-37.u245	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
