ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA, for her question to the Minister for Justice and Security on crime in Amsterdam. I would also like to welcome the Minister. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week, when the report De back van Amsterdam came out, many people were shocked. The conclusions do not lie either: Amsterdam has a criminal shadow world. Hundreds of millions, if not billions, are involved in drug trafficking and drug use. The drug crime is free to go there. It disrupts the city on all fronts. It is largely caused by a culture of openness and tolerance, as it is described very carefully. I prefer to call it looking away, not maintaining and weak knees. That's what it's all about, because in the past everything has been rigged up, but eventually Amsterdam didn't know how to keep it up, that's what it says. What's new? The only thing Amsterdam manages to keep up is the liberal culture of the 150 coffeeshops, of the completely wasted hard drug use in the nightlife. There's four kilograms of coke going in there every day, so we learn from researching the sewer water. Where in the end anything is allowed, organized crime will rule. That much is clear. It is to be ashamed of you that we stand in the same row as Colombia and Afghanistan, that the mixing of the underworld and the upper world is a fact, that children are recruited, that we are a country where the word "misdemeanor" is in the Van Dale. This report is screaming for action. We want to know what this minister is going to do. We do have an idea about it, namely that we have to turn the tide together. We are doing this partly because of the measures that are being proposed now, but much more is needed. There must be an end to this flower power mentality that drug use is only normal. We may have an integrated approach to drug prevention, but our question is how effective it is. That is why we are asking the cabinet today what it is going to do to reverse this tide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have spoken with you several times about the organized drug problem and the role of our capital city last year. I have also publicly called for a great deal of attention to be paid to the urgency of this problem. In addition, I have also kept a mirror on recreational drug users, as I still call it, although you can also take that a little ambiguously. It is a good thing that this report is here now, because it underlines and reaffirms the seriousness of the problem. The past of tolerance towards hard drugs has placed a heavy mortgage on, among others, Brabant and Limburg when it comes to the production of and trade in xtc, the port of Rotterdam as a transit port for cocaine and the Central Netherlands as a kind of distribution hub for that last drug. The report confirms once again that the mortgage also extends to our capital city. I remain committed to the fight against the undermining problem, which is closely linked to the drugs problem. I have spoken a great deal with your Chamber about the 100 million undermining fund and the 10 million in structural funds. A large part of this goes to the Amsterdam approach. I would also like to mention the extension of police strength and, this year, the reinforcement of the State's Attorney's Office. Finally, I would like to mention the undermining legislation, which I hope will soon be able to discuss with your Chamber. It is an urgent matter; I keep repeating it. We must indeed say, as a ruler, but also as a society, that we do not accept this; we must oppose this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	I have noticed that this Minister has taken some serious steps with regard to undermining legislation. But what stings us like CDA, is that we still have such an incredibly enthusiastic picture of drug use in the Netherlands. Amsterdam still has the idea: we are on the international map. But the people who come to Amsterdam, apart from the few who come before the Night's Watch, come for the drugs. You can walk over the heads there. Fortunately, Amsterdam is starting to scale up a bit and they say: well, we may not want this to happen. The Minister said last year that he was concerned that he had to send police officers into Brabant's garages, while people in Amsterdam thought anything could be done. Those are the things I'd like to hear from this minister. I want him to be responsible and behind him is the minister responsible for public health who is taking serious steps with this cabinet to ultimately reduce the use of drugs. Mr. Chairman. Then I look at one concrete example. Last summer was fantastic again, with very nice festivals. But I also saw festivals and, of course, I have looked into them, which weren't so close to the rules. There a few security guards were put at the door which after half an hour were allowed on the premises themselves. Those festivals weren't aimed at turning the people who took drugs to those festivals. Why doesn't this cabinet go with the association of all these festivals and with the mayors around the table, to make sure festivals indicate: you simply don't get on the premises when you have drugs with you, and we're finally gonna keep it? Because if, in addition to the measures that the Minister is right to take, we do not appeal to the users at the same time, then we are not going to win this war. That's even what the police say. I understand that this minister hesitates in criminalising the user, because he does not want users to end up looking for help because they would be punishable. I can follow that reasoning, but we cannot stay away from this problem. In the end, we will also have to go about addressing these users more firmly. I ask this Minister to do so, and to work with his colleagues to make sure that we really put that user at the heart of the matter, as we always say so beautifully here, but rather to some sort of disgrace and not so incredibly hugged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	Let me say first of all that hard drug use has a major impact on society. Read not only the report of Tops and Tromp, but also the National Drug Monitor, which also clearly outlines the bleak developments. It also attracts a heavy change in health. Read the interview, last week, in Het Parool with a cardiologist from the Amsterdam OLVG, location West. In the meantime, with all the gloomy observations made in the report, I welcome the fact that the new city council of Amsterdam itself has commissioned this report, and has also made it quite clear that it is going to work on this report. I will certainly like to work together in this; I have already said that to the mayor. As far as the user is concerned, I have repeated on many occasions over the past year, to the furthest of many people: keep a mirror to yourself, because you are financing a large criminal industry. In the coming year, too, I certainly want to enter into talks with those who feel that it is not that bad and that it should be possible. Because I still think I should fight crime, and I think I also have a role to play in explaining to people that they are trying to facilitate that crime. As regards health policy, of course my colleague from VWS, especially Blokhuis, has to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	Not only in Amsterdam, but also in Brabant, Zeeland and in many other places in the country, a lot of people suffer from the crime, organised crime and the inadequate fight against crime. Nevertheless, I find this question from a CDA chamber member to a CDA minister at least remarkable, if not hypocritical. As if it hasn't been almost only CDA and VVD Justice Ministers since 1966 who have not invested enough in the fight against crime. The CDA forgot to mention this and should of course have asked if the Minister is willing to invest extra money in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the justice system, the NFI, financial detectives and the Tax Office to really hit organised crime. How can it be that despite all the leaking news, we will come back to that in such a way that the Ministry immediately announced that there is no extra money available at Prinsjesdag? How is that even possible when we see what's happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	There has already been an additional investment in police strength and throughout the criminal justice chain in the coalition agreement, because you have to do this in other places. The anti-undermining approach has also been invested. But I think it is very good that Mr Van Nispen is asking this question anyway. Why? It's not just a matter of more cops in there. Because at some point the question is, and I asked it before the summer, whether we should continue to organize more and more large festivals where the police come from the mayor to check for pills. It removes your police capacity from other things. Should we just let a drug industry in big cities happen? No, of course not, but we're not gonna solve that alone with cops. We will also have to solve this with local licensing policies and with an approach to places you say you will get a fireplace in that area. That is why, even in the case of Amsterdam, I would like to work with the local government, the city council of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	My group finds the CDA's questions hypocritical for another reason, because between all the big words we heard, we did not hear that the CDA is cooperating in the legalization of soft drugs. 'Cause what party supports the weed experiment? That's, among other things, the CDA. This minister doesn't report that either. However, he talks about the festival goer and the xtc pills, but the joints are not good either. That's just a forbidden product, too. That's just a hypocrite. And indeed, you shouldn't just put it on the police sign. But, Mr. Chairman, you need to work with the IRS and with the FIOD, because crime can't pay off. The stolen criminal money, at an early stage as possible, must be in the structural undermining fund. That'll help you deal with the crime. So my question is very simple. I have often said this and I am doing it again: where is the structural undermining fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	I would like to thank Mrs Helder for that question, because this is really something that the Chamber can constantly pursue after me. I can assure you that I will also give priority to this in the Cabinet next year. I say in all honesty that the Tops and Tromp report, although I did not ask for it, was not unwelcome in that respect. If we are going to fight this, I must do my utmost to ensure that every year we have a clear means of combating it. As far as hard drugs are concerned, I have always said: legalisation, not under this minister, really not!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	This isn't about hugging criminals, it's about hard drug bosses, and this is affecting our entire society, because you have big drug labs in residential areas and misdemeanors that could hit anyone. That is why there is the greatest need for this cabinet and this minister to deal with this. I will go on with the questions that have been asked, because they are relevant. I hear the Minister say: I will continue to invest in the undermining fund in the coming years. But hasn't the Minister promised us a long time ago that this undermining fund would become structural? My specific question is therefore: can we now see with Princess Day that the cabinet is actually making this money, which has been promised for some time, namely 100 million, structural so that it can be used on the extra expertise, extra effort and additional knowledge that is clearly requested in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	This minister has not promised in this Chamber or in the First Chamber that there would be a structural undermining fund. This Minister is absolutely right, and I would ask you to give priority to this in the Cabinet next year too, and you may call on me to continue to invest in it. I would also add that it is also a question of society. You cannot expect the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary to mop with the crane open at any time. It means, I repeat, that local policies must also be aimed at reducing drug tourism, restricting permits for certain occasions and tackling those places where we see that this crime is most common. Once again, it is not just about Amsterdam; I would like to say that again for the people in the Chamber. I told you a year ago that I am an Amsterdammer, I was born and raised there and I live there, ashamed that it puts such pressure on Brabant and Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mrs. Kuik, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	We may not agree on everything. You may take a whole package of measures, but if you think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	If the minister thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	If the Minister, excuse me, thinks that we can tackle this kind of big problem not only in Amsterdam, but in the whole of Brabant, Northern Netherlands, Utrecht; there are more reports to be addressed without the use of additional resources, without a structural undermining fund, then he is wrong. My question is again: is the extra 100 million coming now with Princess Day? It is only 100 million, but at least we can make structural use of that money. I think we're gonna need this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	I think that this report, and that really supports me, shows once again how much this is needed. Twelve months ago, in a television interview, I said very clearly the same things I said here today, and I did not get the social Anklang I had hoped for. I see this is slowly changing. Social support is important for this. I say once again that I will be very strong in the cabinet in the coming year that we will continue to invest in this. Furthermore, we must not forget that this 100 million has been used in the undermining fund this year, and that money must have found its way, otherwise you will get the same thing as in the criminal chain that it is going to get in the way of each other. Mrs Kuik may constantly appeal to me to make myself strong in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	To be honest, I am very concerned about this answer. Since 1995, since the Van Traa Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, we have known the extent of the problem of the interdependence of the underworld and the upper world. We've seen a series of reports that show that again. If there are no structural measures, we are here today to talk about Amsterdam, next week to talk about Tilburg, and the next week perhaps about Zeeland, where I myself come from. I agree with Mr Kuik and once again call on the cabinet to come up with structural measures, and preferably very soon, because this is a very serious and serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	I refer to my previous reply in this regard. I believe it's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mrs. Van der Graaf, welcome back! It's good to have you back, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. It feels good to be back and to be taking part in Question Time at the moment, about such a serious report that has been written about our capital city. It really makes it very clear what the devastating impact of drug use and the drug crime behind it is, and what huge consequences it has in our capital, but it also casts its shadow over the rest of the country. I live in the north and I recognize it there. Mr. Chairman. How can we live in a time when we talk to each other about where our food comes from, who made our clothes, or what the consequences are if we take the plane, but we don't talk about the world behind the party drugs xtc and cocaine? The Minister says he wants to show the users a mirror. For the Christian Union that sounds good, but very careful. I wonder if the Minister is saying that he wants to portray the world behind ecstasy and cocaine. Is he saying that he wants to visualize the consequences for society, because they are clearly described? Does the Minister say he's going to inform about the penalties that apply here? Is he actually gonna keep it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u26	I understand the point; it shouldn't just be "look at what you're doing." You must not only raise the moral question, but you must also make it difficult, and I need those local authorities to do so. You have to make it impossible, here and there, for people to get their sniffs, which are now just being put around on a moped, so to speak. As governments you will have to work together in this and in the meantime there will have to be a number of things that will scare people away and realize what they are doing. I would like to remind you once again that in January 2018 a young boy was murdered in Amsterdam, a liquidation, accidentally, wrongly caught by the drug mafia from Amsterdam. I'm not saying you're going to get there by saying, "look, I'm sorry," but I do think we should really cut people off for that recreational use and, at the same time, tell them that they're helping to keep it alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u27	Second question, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u28	I hear the Minister saying that he does not want it to be "look what we are doing', but the Christian Union is really asking how the Minister wants to tackle this culture of impunity that surrounds recreational use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u29	This will also require a joint approach with my colleague, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, let that be very clear. I started a year ago to say everywhere I showed my head that you're using drugs to finance organized crime. We are now twelve months away and we are far from there, but this discussion is slowly starting. That is not only because of this, but also because Mr Akerboom, the Chief Constable, has pointed it out. Last year, Tops had a study in which something was said about the size of the xtc turnover from the Netherlands. I believe that I must ensure that the laws are properly enforced and that they become more stringent. I hope that the undermining legislation will pass through Parliament as soon as possible, as I said, in a good way, of course. That should help us, too. I would also like to work with the local authorities, because indeed, a minister who is only waving a finger in The Hague is not going to change society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Groothuizen, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Researchers rightly write, I think, that it is the incredible sums of money associated with the drug trade, which cause the disruption, the great crime and the severe violence. I miss in the Minister's answer a little what he can do right now to help Amsterdam. Because the researchers actually write: the information position in Amsterdam is not in order; they have no idea about these money flows at all. The Minister refers to all sorts of ongoing programmes, but what can he do now, directly, next week to help Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u32	That will indeed be next week, because then I will have a further discussion in Amsterdam on these issues. This will indeed have to do with cooperation to improve the information position. That will also have to be done with extra police in Amsterdam. Although Amsterdam gets a little more than the distribution rules should, we are working on that. It also has to do with joint raising in the fight against money laundering and the like. I sent a letter to your Chamber at the beginning of July, together with Mr Hoekstra, with a large number of new measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u33	The second question, Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u34	It is getting a little more concrete, but still not much more concrete, because in itself, crime in Amsterdam will not immediately startle if the Minister talks there next week. I'd like to know more about it. At what time can the Minister send a letter to the Chamber about the outcome of the discussion he is having in Amsterdam? Then the Chamber will know exactly what you are going to do to help Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u35	I understand that you were also invited as a Chamber to speak in Amsterdam next week. I'm gonna continue the conversations. I do not think it is unreasonable in itself if I send you a letter about this in October and then we can discuss it with each other. The fact that I don't go into all kinds of things in concrete terms also has to do with the saying: it takes two to tango. However, we must agree with Amsterdam on how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u36	I hear the Minister mention two words which are indeed essential in the fight against this problem. The first word is "integral." I shall come back to that in a moment during the course of the work. The second word is "structural." In recent weeks, I have spoken a great deal about this with mayors and people from the province. The Minister is right to say that he cannot only do it from The Hague and that he must also do it with the people in the regions and places most affected by it. They only beg for one thing, which I have heard several times today: get structural money, because only then will we be able to fight these things. I beg the Minister to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u37	There is no need for Mr Krol to translate that into a plea. I agree with what he says, i.e. that we can only make real meters in this if we continue to bet on it. I have always said about the 100 million in the coalition agreement: it is a big, important step, but it is a first step, because we need to move forward. I will continue to inform your Chamber about this in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u38	It's about a very painful report today. It is right that questions should be asked about this. The criminal is the boss in Amsterdam, we read. We read that coke gets delivered faster than a pizza. We are talking about a situation in which warheads can go about their business carelessly and there is insufficient insight into the undermining. I hope that we can discuss this later, because I am not satisfied with one question; I have a lot of questions. Today I want to talk about the following. The researchers show, as has been said, that almost all authorities have a weak information position. The Minister has already mentioned the laws on undermining which are in preparation and which have already been adopted. We also agreed on this in the coalition agreement. I would like to know from the Minister whether adequate account has been taken of the current lack of information. Do the laws that are going to be adopted provide that this will be better regulated, so that more information will be exchanged so that action can be taken quickly, for example against undermining?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u39	This is a very good point. The Council of State, I recall, in May following a joint request for advice from the mayors and advised me on whether much more needs to be done in the area of legal provisions on the information position. Let me make it quick. I'm busy with the bill data sharing partnerships. The Council of State has also said that it sees possibilities in existing regulations that allow wider information sharing. We are currently mapping that well with each other, so that we can avoid further obstacles. For that, it is very important that we hear from the municipalities themselves what their wish list is so that we can help them indicate. But if you want this sorted out, you can find the legal basis there to get that information. Well, I'm putting pressure on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you.
