ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then I go to Mrs Thieme of the Animal Party for her question to the Minister, who replaces the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in this question. The question concerns the letter signed by the Prime Minister in order to reach an agreement quickly on Mercosur. Mrs. Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The European Union is about to conclude the biggest free trade deal in its history: Mercosur. Through the deal with South America, the European Commission opens the borders to cheap animal and environmentally unfriendly agricultural products. President Bolsonaro of Brazil thinks protecting the rainforest is nonsense, for example. It does not abide by the climate agreement and approves agricultural poisons that have been banned in Europe for years. Animal welfare is an unknown phenomenon for him, as is human rights. Mr. Chairman. Mercosur has disastrous consequences for European farmers, animals, the rainforest and climate. And let's face it: Germany wants this deal, because they want to sell German cars and export them to South America. Prime Minister Rutte is on Merkel's leash, as we read in last week's letter to Juncker. He explains that he is a big fan of this deal. But he does not want to come to oral Question Time today, because he is not about Mercosur, he says. Mr. Chairman. The deal causes massive dumping of puff chicken meat, wrong beef, heavily sprayed sugar and other agricultural products, which are produced in Brazil and other Mercosur countries under much lower environmental rules. Usually there aren't even rules. All, truly all farmers in the European Union, 22 million farmers, consumers and environmental organisations want this deal to go away. Heads of Government of France, Belgium, Poland and Ireland have also expressed great concern. But what does Prime Minister Rutte do? He supports Juncker and calls all concerns "populist." You'll have to dare. Mr. Chairman. There must be a political agreement next Friday. We believe that the Netherlands should support the interests of our farmers, animal welfare, nature and the environment, and that it should stop the deal. I have two questions: does the Minister recognise that the rules and ambitions of the European Member States in relation to animals, nature and climate are much higher than those of Mercosur countries? Does the Minister recognise that Mercosur agricultural products do not have to comply with these rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	I now turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Thieme raised the issue of the possible conclusion of a trade agreement between the European Union and South American countries. It has been negotiated for decades and it is possible that an agreement will indeed be reached in the near future. It points out that such an agreement could lead to no or insufficient attention being paid to important issues such as animal welfare and the environment. In general, it is important that trade agreements be concluded between the European Union, of which the Netherlands is an important part, and other countries in the world. We note quite widely in the Chamber that we are living in a time when, unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly difficult to conclude international agreements. This means that countries are isolated from each other and that conflicts arise. It is a value in itself that countries sit around the table and try to conclude agreements, because in these agreements you can make agreements, including on the important issues mentioned by Mrs Thieme, such as the environment and animal welfare. You can also choose not to sit at the table, but then you can't make appointments. I also know the sounds from various South American countries, and Mrs Thieme specifically refers to Brazil as "Brazil," but they convince me that it is right to sit at the table. We, too, would like to see a careful handling of tropical jungle and animal rights. And when we talk about export and import over and over again, we want to be able to set quality standards. My starting point is therefore that it is better to sit at the table to make agreements than to sit on the hands, to call shame and to know that this will at least not change anything. The follow-up question is whether agreements are also made. Are they good enough? The issues mentioned by Mrs Thieme are on the agenda: animal welfare, the environment and the climate. So the main reasoning is that you can go through sitting around the table and raise those important issues. Are these appointments gonna be good enough? We have to assess that at that time. There is no final text yet. I don't know if it's gonna happen, either, but I hope so. At that time, we will look carefully at the text before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	Of course, you are also trying to get other countries to a higher standard when it comes to the environment, climate and animal welfare. You do that under conditions. You say: I would like to deal with you, but then you have to comply with the rules we make, because we want to protect consumers and animals from wrong products. But what are this cabinet and the European Commission doing? They say: we would like to export cars to you and you can export all agricultural products, without reservation, to the European Union. And: after we have concluded that agreement, we will once again go around the table to evaluate whether the rules can't get any better. That is what we now see with the Ukraine Treaty: there are still no animal welfare rules and the puffy chicken meat is being dumped massively here. That's why the chicken farmers are so angry. In Brazil and other countries three times as many puffs are produced. This means that agriculture in the Netherlands and the rest of Europe is being badly competed. This cabinet says it's the greenest cabinet of all time. But if you have President Bolsonaro, who is abolishing environmental rules, who is having sugar produced with agricultural poison that has been banned for a long time now, and which is going to get worse, then surely you cannot say after 20 years: we are confident that we have agreed on rules for the environment, animal welfare and climate next Friday. So again, does the Minister acknowledge that there are differences in rules? So there is no level playing field, as it is called. Farmers suffer from exports from Brazil and other countries. Does he agree, like those 22 million farmers, consumers and environmental organisations, that we should not allow this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	I am aware that there are companies and organisations that would rather not see this agreement. Mrs Thieme specifically mentions the farmers. This will depend on what product they produce and whether the new Mercosur agreement with that product gives them more access to the Latin American market or new competition. Mrs Thieme once again expresses her concern about the rules on the environment, deforestation and pesticides in Brazil. Then you will come back to the following basic question: are we only calling this here in the Chamber in The Hague, or are we really prepared to conclude agreements with the countries we are concerned about in order to really change the situation that we want to change? I think the last choice is the wisest one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. That was him, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yes. Disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	The concerns the Party raises for the Animals are justified. There are, of course, farmers who are really worried about the situation, for example, about the export of cattle and poultry to Europe. We therefore expect the Foreign Minister, as well as the Foreign Trade Minister and the Prime Minister, to always be on the side of these farmers. Soon the agreement will come to the European Parliament, I hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We would like the undertaking that it will then also be presented to the Trade Council, that it will at least not be taken as a hammer piece and that the ministers will be the last to be able to judge it. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	As far as I know, this will be on the agenda for the European Council and for the European Parliament. I really need to look into the matter of the Trade Council, because this is the premises of Mr Kaag. I'm afraid to say that out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	And is Mr Amhaouch getting a message about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	Sure. He'll be notified in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	Not only are environmental standards and human rights protection standards lower in countries like Brazil and Argentina than in the European Union, but the minimum wage, with €240 in Brazil and €260 in Argentina, is also about one seventh of what we have here in the Netherlands. So if we do nothing, companies will be able to produce much cheaper in those countries, violating human rights, exploiting people and damaging nature. How is the cabinet going to ensure that this situation does not create unfair competition? What agreements is the cabinet going to make in this kind of treaties? I hear from the cabinet that it wants to make arrangements, but how is the cabinet going to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	It is rightly said that the standard of living in Latin America is lower than in Europe. I compare this with the debate I just had with Mrs Thieme. If you find that other areas of the world, in this case Latin America, are poorer than Europe, you can take two positions. You can say: we notice that and they do it with it. Or you can say: we live together in one world; let's try to make agreements that both of us are getting better, including those who are dealing with low income in Latin America. Here again I choose the following. If we can make good agreements and trade with the European Union, I would rather offer poor people in Latin America the opportunity to earn more or to get a job than to call for a distance: yes, those people are poor, but I am not doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	Trade treaties are of course of all times. That is not so much the concern of the SGP. However, we are concerned about the pressure that is being exerted, according to the letter also signed by the Prime Minister, in order to reach an agreement quickly. My question to the Minister is: how does this relate to a remark in the agricultural vision of the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Safety that more critical consideration is being given to trade agreements in order to ensure the earning model of the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Schouten clearly pointed out that the high requirements we impose on agricultural production in the Netherlands and in the European Union obviously affect the competitiveness of Dutch farmers and growers. I do not yet know the details of the agreement, but I do know that issues such as the environment and climate, which I mentioned to Mrs Thieme, are part of that agreement. And then you will probably see that some parts of the Dutch agricultural sector will be the response: this offers us advantages over competitors in Latin America. They may say about others: this does not strengthen our position. The final weighting must of course be: is the balance of benefits for both parties greater than the disadvantages? The experience with trade agreements is that, in general, a good trade agreement will ultimately benefit both sides. That is what Mr Bishop rightly refers to. If we can reach that position, we must not miss that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	I don't want to blame the Minister, because it's not his file, it's Minister Kaag's. However, I would like to give him the opportunity to make a correction in his speech. The environmental and animal welfare agreements are not made prior to the agreement, nor are environmental and animal welfare requirements made prior to the agreement. Once the agreement has been concluded, there is now and then a discussion about the possibility of harmonizing something and to see if one can come together in relation to the rules. Then the stick behind the door, in the form of an agreement that may or may not be reached, is already forgiven. There is already an agreement. Isn't that what the Minister can say to me? It's gonna happen after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u18	Sure, but that's not a correction to what I just said. The current situation is: we have nothing. Then you may be indignant about what is wrong in Brazil or in other countries, but that is all. If we can reach an agreement where those important issues are part of the way you just outlined, then we have more than we have now. Then you can choose between shouting boo empty-handed or making an agreement that allows you to take steps forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u19	I also hear the Minister say that there might be a lot of interesting things in the EU-Mercosur agreement for other farmers. I'd like to know what sounds he's heard. Which farmers are happy about this? We have a letter from the European farmers' organisation and that from farmers here in the Netherlands. Grocers, livestock farmers all say: stop this agreement, we don't want it! What sounds does the Minister have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u20	In order to make that assessment, I need the agreement. That's exactly what I just reported. At that point you can only judge exactly which groups will say that they are going to improve and which will say that they are not going to improve. In particular, you can also take stock of the final balance: will this improve as a Dutch society, as a European society? The same consideration will also be made in Latin America.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the oral questions. We're about to have a new colleague's swearing-in. Then we'll vote. For now, I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
