ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the debate on the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	We were working on the first term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not in a thousand years has the Minister of Finance had such an easy time. The highest employment ever, the lowest interest charges since time immemorial and a series of budget surpluses to tell you. That generous starting position creates obligations. The Minister also realized this when he set out his motto when he took office: peace, cleanliness and regularity. Rest, cleanliness and regularity. Two years later, we all understand better how he meant that motto. He meant it like that young father who, if he can, is in bed before 10:00, because he knows how early the alarm clock goes again. He meant it as that young father who often eats sports and healthy and whose greatest sin, normally, is a special beer, but then as that young father who also permits a mushroom trip once or twice a year or, forward, hallucinogenic truffles. Of course, we'll just keep it within the rules. A mushroom trip, indeed, because he realizes that a different view of reality is possible, because he knows that this gives an insight into quality that you don't otherwise get, and because the perspective is almost as fascinating as the summit of Mount Fuji at sunset. I don't know exactly how this liberality falls within the CDA, but I can personally appreciate it, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the investment fund. What an extension of the mind! Or, as Mr Slootweg said, mysticism. The Minister surprised friend and enemy with his enthusiasm for investing more outside the budget. Who would have thought of the treasurer who liked to illustrate the importance of the budgetary rules with an image of Odysseus, who had himself chained to the mast out of self-protection against his instincts, and still firmly swept away the VVD proposal for a windfall formula?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have listened to Mr Sneller with increasing amazement over the last three minutes. I wonder if he would advise our rulers to use drugs so that our government finances are in safer hands. Because that's what it sounded like in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u5	I am working for two minutes and ten seconds, but I suggest that I finish my speech and hope that it will become clear to Mr Bruins, because the metaphor is not quite clear to him yet. In any case, I have appointed the first spirit expansion, the investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u6	I will at least stay away from mushrooms for the next 15 minutes, because I do not yet follow Mr Sneller, but I will continue to follow it with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u7	It's very important that someone stays sober at such a mushroom trip. The minister surprised friend and enemy because this tour led some people to the question: what were Wobke's words worth so far? And I get that bit of sour question somewhere, but with me the satisfaction of these new clear insights really prevails. After all, I am always in favour of not staring us blindly at the buffers but of overlooking them. A crucial part of that plea was always investing in new growth, in the earning capacity of the future. That future sometimes sounds far away, but is in fact a very urgent problem because this year labour productivity is declining. In other words, we produce not more on average per hour worked, but less than last year. For years, productivity growth has been lower than in other countries. For decades, the proportion of public expenditure going to investment has been falling. Now I've always learned that the best time to plant a tree is ten years ago and it's a second best moment today. So let's speed things up. I welcome the priorities set by the Cabinet for the growth agenda. So far, so good. But, question one: what criteria exactly are we going to use to select projects for that fund or what exactly it is going to be called or to take shape? Take knowledge development, R&D and innovation. There are great opportunities here and no one, except perhaps Minister Wiebes, will deny its contribution to our growth potential, but in the models of the calculators of the Central Planning Bureau they have zero effect on economic growth. Furthermore, Professor Mazzucato, one of the apostles of the public sector revaluation, has shown how important the contribution of the government to our economic growth can be, for example, in the creation of the Internet and GPS. But would they have come if there had to have been a positive business case in advance? I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u8	Brief question, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u9	I think Mr Sneller is moving rather quickly towards how. I'm really curious about the need for such a state fund or equity fund. I don't know exactly what to call it. What the hell is the need for that? Can Mr Sneller explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u10	The need for a fund is doubtful, the need to invest more seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr Sneller just mentioned that in a spirit-expanding way, in which he described in an almost lyrical way the idea which was already put forward in 1957 and which I think was swept away by Zijlstra because he did not like it; it has been done a few times before and Europe has been doing it through the Juncker Fund for some time, so it is not that complicated to think of that. But let's talk about the necessity. If you say that this need is not proven, why can we not do it through existing resources, public spending, investment and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u12	I think I said that it is important that we invest more. Mr Azarkan referred earlier to the opinions of the Council of State, in which you can see that the share of investment as part of public expenditure is falling. That's all I care about. Next is my motto in the design: form follows function. If we think that it needs to be spent quickly and that it needs to be invested, I wholeheartedly support the areas mentioned in the Millions Note, then there is a form that is secondary to me. Whether it's going to be a fund or it's going to be another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u13	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u14	Then I think we are in agreement in the sense that you can also say to the NS: continue with very fast rail connections. We've got the light rail. We can invest much more in education. There are plenty of places where we can invest. And I think it's just possible. So I think the question should be: what makes the cabinet invest so reluctantly in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u15	The cabinet doesn't invest reluctantly. Mr Azarkan immediately took the step to ask: what specific projects? The question of how and the question of who will then select these projects is left over in the second part of my speech. Looks like we're getting home real soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'm going to see Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u17	When we talk about research and development, we must of course also look at the power relations within companies. Eventually, profits are made. You can put them in wages, or pay them out as a dividend to the shareholders. But you can also put that profit into research and development. In the past, the Netherlands had much more of these laboratories, such as Organon. They're all gone. Private R&D spending has been lagging behind in the Netherlands for years. We are lagging behind in the OECD, in the most developed economies, we are lagging behind in the euro area and within the European Union. Shouldn't we also look at the private side? Companies invest far too little in the creation of long-term value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u18	That is a justified appeal from Mr Alkaya, whom I would like to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u19	Could it then be that the shareholders' power in deciding on the distribution of profits is far too great, so that far too much profit is put into dividend payments and buyback of shares? These things are all good for shareholders, who are abroad a lot, but they are bad for the workers here, because their wages are not rising and laboratories are being closed, where research and development suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u20	I'm not here to review shareholders as a group. I also see that the largest shareholder in the world, BlackRock, is saying: buy less back and invest more in the earning capacity of the future. That's a primary call to companies. So I do see shareholders who see that long-term interest. However, I fully agree with Mr Alkaya; I am sometimes surprised at the number of shares bought back, rather than investing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u21	Finally. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u22	Of course, there may be good examples, but we also see that various studies show that Shell's shareholders, in particular, ensure that 90% of research expenditure is still spent on fossil fuels and not on windmills, solar panels and so on. Can we then ask the cabinet together to consider at least what the role of shareholders is in the use of research funds and whether they could not be raised much more if we were to address the shareholders in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u23	In my view, Mr Alkaya does not need me to call on the cabinet to do so. It is particularly important to consider what further we can do to increase private investment. Invest-NL is an example of this. How can we use the investment agenda and the projects included in it to raise private investment? I believe that we have made this appeal; I hope it will be heard. I would therefore like to invite the Minister to speak to Mr Azarkan, especially his inner Mazzucato, when the fund is being drawn up or whatever it is going to be. So how are we going to make choices within that infrastructure? The criteria we use to choose between infra-projects are really not of this time anymore. The reduction of traffic jams on the national road network is at lonely altitude, while liveable cities and housing come to the second plan. This seems to me to be an excellent opportunity to give the concept of 'wide prosperity' the place it deserves. Should we not introduce this more modern way of measuring social impact and selecting projects also for investments across the Netherlands? We would be crazy to completely ignore the sweet siren song of low interest rates. But everyone in this Chamber also knows that the political meat is weak. That is why we need to define and monitor the distinction between investment and consumption, which the Council of State rightly calls attention to this year. And then there's the second question: who's going to select these projects? How, on the one hand, do we ensure a substantively balanced objectifiable judgment, while politics remains accessible to choices and keeps Parliament insight and control? I think it is a coincidence that Mr Nijboer is coming forward now, but the follow-up to my sentence is: without every Member of Parliament or person in office seeing the ideal cover for his or her acute deficit or wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u24	I hear Mr Van Dijck knows what question you are going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u25	He's right. Yes, it's about education. Because if there is anything important for the future of the Netherlands, it is investing in education. I'm sure D66 agrees with that. We need to make sure everyone is well trained. How can it be that when a VVD senator went over in the First Chamber and the interest rate increase for students did not go through, the 226 million in savings in higher education ended up in this budget? Where was D66 when those negotiations took place? Why wasn't that taken off the table? Are you willing to do that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u26	During these negotiations we were very busy trying to find a solution to the gap that Mr Asscher left in the education budget. I believe that the budgetary rules have then been applied to what you describe there. I don't think that's a nice element, but then I think: yes, so much extra went to solve what you left behind. This gap was created by the way in which the student estimates were handled. Fortunately, we have now finally managed this in a better way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u27	When we were in the outgoing cabinet, D66 and other parties said shame that we then said that we needed more money for education in that budget too. We've been committed to that for years. In the previous period, I have benefited greatly from the efforts of D66 as an opposition party to regulate more money for education. I would say: take this hand-off from the opposition, from the PvdA, to get those cuts off the table. You also say about the cuts: they are the budgetary rules, but it also hurts me. The cabinet does pay extra money for defense and other matters. Then at least get those cuts off the table. Because the relationship with the universities has fallen to a low point, and that under the responsibility of a minister of D66-house. Couldn't we work together to at least get these cuts off the table that they can't do anything about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr Nijboer just accused another party of being a manoeuvrable party. I think it's an understatement to say about the PvdA. But if this is Mr Nijboer's outstretched hand, then I am always prepared to look at that outstretched hand and what is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u29	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'd be happy to. I am very happy to see if we can get this cut in higher education off the table together. I will also make proposals for this in my contribution. And I would like it even more if we could also reduce the workload for primary school teachers and improve the reward. Also something we could fight for together!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u31	I believe that the zero line of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is also responsible for this. Then the influx of the pabo started again, after the biggest increase in wages in all sectors over the last five years. I can see Mr Nijboer's compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u33	So I think it is an excellent idea to invest more. Meanwhile, the government debt continues to fall. Despite commitments in the previous Financial Reviews, a lot of money remains on the shelf. The CBS suggests an even larger surplus. It almost presents us with the luxury problem: how low should public debt become? Is the Minister with Klaas Knot saying that 45% of our national income is enough or is he from the school "the lower, the better"? I'd like a response. Moreover, Mr Slootweg also asked what exactly happened to the EUR 8 billion that the minister stole abroad? At which banks and companies was that? I come to the second part of my plea to look beyond the buffers. This consists of implementing structural reforms that strengthen our economy. It's more resilient and resilient when it's inconvenient. The cabinet has achieved a major achievement with the Climate and Pension Agreement. Now it is important to go from paper to practice there. However, this minister's stewardship could still use a double dose of reforms, such as the healthcare expenditure that grows further every year and pushes investment or makes it more difficult to reduce burdens. In one of the less clear passages of his School Singing, Hoekstra warned the politician Hoekstra, the CDA'er, as he himself said in Box K, but from the Cabinet I see so few serious initiatives to curb that increase more actively or at least to estimate that increase more accurately, or at least not to raise this crucial debate on the agenda. The same applies to the reform of the housing market. The European Systemic Risk Board says very explicitly to the Netherlands: should they not be reduced a little further? These are adjustments that I believe would also be in our own interest as part of a broader reform, because our house-high debts and our capabilities that are rock-solid make us even more vulnerable in crisis times. In short, there is still a world to be won here. But instead the Minister writes: sorry, Mr. Draghi, we do so much already. So, Minister, the question is how to ensure that we can answer next year: oh, and Mrs Lagarde, thank you for the advice, we are working on it. Reforms must also be accompanied by a sense of urgency, because the moment that we sighed that we should have reformed when the economic tide was in place is getting closer faster than we would have liked. Incited by populism and nationalism, dark clouds are hanging over our economy. They appear from across the Channel and across the ocean. The risks from China and Italy have also been on our radar for some time now. Mr. Chairman. Today I would like to consider another risky region. Today it is exactly a year since Mohammed bin Salman, crown prince of Saudi Arabia had Jamal Khashoggi murdered the journalist. Shortly afterwards, the Minister and I were facing each other in Question Time, after which he finally decided not to act in a panel next to the Crown Prince at a conference organised by the Saudi sovereign wealth fund. This week, a year later, Bin Salman acknowledges full responsibility, but justice is still a long way to go. This year Saudi Arabia will be president of the G20. The Queen already gave an example of how we shouldn't deal with it at the beginning of the summer. My question to the Minister is: how is he going to make sure it doesn't become a business as usual? What is his answer to the question put by his fellow minister above the market: does he think that people who fill their tanks with Saudi oil are responsible for the crimes and crimes of that country? And does he think that the Dutch State is partly responsible because we are making money from the excise duty on that oil? Mr. Chairman. Our addiction to the oil infusion with which we sponsor authoritarian regimes in this region is, of course, terrible. It also makes us financially vulnerable. The drone attack on an oil refinery two weeks ago made that clear again. That is why I have the following request. With so many risks lurking, I would still like to receive that shock test for public finances. But even without these risks, the economy will be reduced once again. Last year, therefore, I asked that we prepare ourselves more seriously for a cyclical change. The terms of reference for the 16 working groups working on this motion are promising. Compliments of the way that was picked up. This year I would like to add to that the Council of State's call for greater attention to be paid to the composition and efficiency of public expenditure on debt instruments, indeed, Mr Snel's special attention to the benefit-burden system. Mr. Chairman. In these calls I take hope from the knowledge that the Minister dares to make big decisions in a short space of time when he has seen the light. For example, we saw this force in the purchase of Air France-KLM shares, while of course we are becoming increasingly curious about the follow-up and when we get certainty about the state guarantees. And yes, as I said to Mr Bruins, it is very important to ensure that there is always a sober person present at such moments. I asked for an exit strategy during the debate on the purchase, because the government is mainly there to be a good partner or market master, but not necessarily to play the small business itself. This question about an exit strategy has again been central to ABN in recent weeks. Since the Minister's arrival, ABN's stock market value has fallen by several billions, while the government agreement states I am pleased that the Minister confirms in the answers that he still wants to sell it as quickly as possible. My question to the Minister is: how exactly can we control what opportunities have been there? Then the Secretary of State. He's like this, contemplating everything, kind of boring about it. But maybe he has bigger challenges. As the Court of Auditors pointed out, it has made improvements and achieved results in the Tax Administration. But the legacy is a heavy burden and solving it really takes a lot of time, while there is yet another ambitious fiscal agenda. I have three questions for him. Firstly, the municipalities, which were also mentioned earlier. They have been given many additional tasks in recent years, but their funding is lagging behind, in terms of stability, in terms of systematic and in terms of size. Municipalities remain very dependent on the Empire and the Empire then adjusts their budgets a few times a year, sometimes even afterwards. The cabinet is now looking at a more stable supply of the Municipal Fund for the coming years. But is the Secretary of State also prepared, as Mr Nijboer rightly asked, to look in the short term to see if the adverse effect of under-utilization by IenW can be reduced? And is he prepared to consider for the longer term whether another system, for example that larger tax area, or any other standard-setting method would be even better? Meanwhile, municipalities suffer from a large bleacher, the scaling-up discount. At first it was introduced as a sweet little leech of about 60 million by Minister Plasterk. But in the meantime, this Plaster stimulus has been quite swollen and in full-grown form it costs almost 1 billion euros a year, while the odd conclusion must be that very, very little has come of this announced scaling-up. Or does the Secretary of State still see any logic? Not only municipalities, more than six million households are dependent on the Empire through the payments to make ends meet, and they too often get caught up in recovery and get into trouble. This system is clearly running against its limits. It needs to be much simpler and it needs to be better. Wide lives the desire to ensure that work pays better and that more work pays more. But we continue to wait for investigations and investigations, and we continue to nudge implementation problems. So what are ambitions and the Secretary of State's plans to make progress here? Wide also lives the desire in the Chamber to reform capitalism to preserve it, except for Mr Alkaya. In our globalised world, this is going to have to appeal to him, because he made a plea for international cooperation. For this we must increase European sovereignty in order to defend our Dutch interests. Whether it's contemporary competition control on tech companies, I see him nodding in agreement or effectively combating tax avoidance, and when it comes to greening our taxes so that pollution of our environment and destruction of our planet will not be so absurdly cheap, European cooperation is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u34	If it were to remain in cooperation, many people would simply have nothing against it at all. The point is that we all give away powers that we ourselves could best retain at national level to Brussels. My question to Mr Sneller is: could he categorize the European Union as a capitalist union, a socialist union or something in between, or perhaps even as a neoliberal union? And how would he back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u35	As far as the latter is concerned, I have never fully understood what that would be like. I hear the word very often from Mr Alkaya, but what it is exactly, I have never heard of him. But I think that in the past few years, Commissioner Vestager has shown how to deal with these big tech companies by acting together, powerful and unambiguous. I think that is very good and something that we welcome together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u36	It has been the same European Commission that has forced us, for example, to abandon our interests in utilities or to ensure that there is an obligation to tender for services, which we would all note is that there really is no market. But we had to and would pretend that the European Union was a market, because it is a neoliberal project. It's a dogma. It is a belief that the European Union is so deeply involved in the system that it is impossible to get out of it by democratic means at all. It should also hurt Mr Sneller, for example, that there has not been a spitzen candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u37	We have had an extensive discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u38	But, Mr President, you must also admit that I have been somewhat challenged on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u39	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u40	A little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u41	And this discussion never gets old, Mr. Chairman. Democratically, you can change it just fine if you are strong enough in the European Parliament. I am convinced that the internal market has brought the Netherlands a great deal and that further completion of the internal market, for example for digital services, could bring us much more prosperity and that we should be very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u42	Let us conclude, then, that, at least in recent years, the European Union has been a huge neo-liberal project and that I have yet to see whether Mr Sneller and his colleagues are able to change that, if they wanted to do so at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u43	In my view, I have just mentioned a number of things such as combating tax avoidance, tackling techriques, greening the taxes that this State Secretary, but also others in Europe, is fighting hard to get it done together. After all, it is politicians, it is countries, it is us who are at the wheel of the European Union. For example, we went together with the French to raise European ambition in the area of climate, and the Dutch and German Cabinet meet again to achieve these ambitions. When is this going to produce concrete results, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Finally, before there were any misunderstandings, which were likely to arise in the first two minutes. About the minister's personal lifestyle: that about that young father really wasn't about the minister himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u44	I shall go back to the beginning of Mr Sneller's speech. Then he started talking about mind enlargement and new insights and I think he spoke to the minister who very easily put aside an earlier proposal from the VVD about the windfall formula. Then the question is also legitimate, I think, how D66 stands in that discussion about the windfall formula. Does Mr Sneller also think that with these windfalls something more and some extra can be done for the middle incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u45	I have expressed warm words about this to Mrs De Vries' predecessor as a financial spokesman, but it depends on how you put that formula together. The VVD easily let that happen at the time. So if that is reinserted, then I see it as encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u46	I count on that, despite the wording, but in support of the VVD's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u47	Whatever exactly that proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'm surprised... Yesterday The Hague was flat on these tractors because of all those farmers, while the problems of nitrogen in these General Financial Reviews hardly seem to play a role. That's crazy, because thousands of people are waiting in line...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u49	There's gonna be another reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u50	... on new homes and those farmers don't know what they're up to. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u51	I believe that the cabinet should come up with a solution quickly, and I believe that my colleague, Mr De Groot, whom I am very proud of, has done it and what he has done, has made it clear what the priorities are for us, and that is, indeed, that housing must continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u52	So now we have a debate on the General Financial Reviews, but we have no idea how we're going to pay for it and what the Cabinet plan is. Then may I ask one specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u53	There has been money on the table since this cabinet period to start this warm clean-up and to ensure that farmers who want to stop can do so or to ensure that farmers make a switch to circular farming. Mr Snels knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u54	Finally, I would like to ask a very specific question. I was surprised by that. On Prinsjesdag, this cabinet has triumphantly announced that there will be a billion for housing. Now it appears that this billion is not only used for housing but also for buying out farmers. I would like to know what Mr Sneller thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u55	In the meantime, I have been able to read that actual question now that Mr Snels has asked someone else. That's not what it says. What it says is that companies must be able to be bought out. If you then buy out a farmer to build houses there, I think that's a very good use of money. In my opinion, this is a bit of a low-water search by Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u56	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u57	I don't want us playing ball-ball with budgets. I think that on the one hand we need extra money for housing. All those thousands of people on the waiting lists are entitled to that. On the other hand, I think that we should make another financial record of how we are going to help farmers. I hope Mr Sneller agrees with me that we should not play ball with budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr Snels must be careful not to think for himself that it will be true if he repeats it often enough. I very much agree with Mr Snels that it should be transparent and transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While the budget is thriving, this week there was a school that said 'we need to close', more and more schools are entering the four-day school week because of the shortage of teachers, there are increasingly unauthorized teachers in the classroom and education is heating up. The great message the PvdA has on this Millions note is that there are financial surpluses, but there is a deficit for the needs of society, a deficit for the social problems that exist today. Mr. Chairman. In my speech, I would first like to comment on the choices made in the budget, including the fund. Then on budgetary policy, not much has been said about this today. It has been mentioned here and there. Finally, my third theme is the Tax Plan and the question of how we, as Social Democrats, are dealing with it. First of all, the budget. I didn't start caring in education for nothing. The primary school teachers are now going to strike for the second time because of the enormous workload and undervaluation they experience. That is truly unprecedented in our history. There are schools that are no longer able to provide education, especially to disadvantaged children, which they would like to offer. That is sad for the pupils, sad for the parents and also sad for the teachers themselves who cannot offer the quality they want to deliver themselves. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has presented an investment budget to the Millions Note. What the PvdA Group does not understand is why this is not reflected in the education budget. How is it that there is still a commitment of EUR 148 million? How is it possible that higher education itself has to cough up the maled interest rate increase for students up to 225 million structurally. A VVD senator didn't get this through the Senate. You know it all because you were all there. How is it that the cabinet says on the one hand that we need to invest more in technical training and that this should then be covered by gamma sciences, medical sciences and alphasciences? How can it not be that a huge investment in education is being made when we see that there is an increase in inequality of opportunity there? Mr. Chairman. The second issue on the budget is living. But I see Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u61	Me too. Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u62	I remember these precious words about education from the General Political Reviews. But could you tell me whose quote this is? "Money is not the biggest problem in education."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u63	I have no idea. There are other problems in education; I agree with you. The money needs to be better deployed. Extra money is sometimes made available that does not end up with teachers. I am happy to be involved in all these things, but both in primary and higher education there are simply not enough resources to reduce the workload and improve pay. In fact, there's a cut in higher education. So there's got to be money, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u64	I can help you out of the dream. It was PvdA Minister Jet Bussemaker who said: money is not the biggest problem in education. You often ask: how can it be? I wonder how the PvdA made such a sound then and now this sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u65	That sound hasn't been any different. I do not think it happened entirely, but I have tried to praise Mr Sneller and will now do so explicitly for the commitment that D66 had during the coalition years to arrange extra money for education. "Half a billion clean" had to be added by Pechtold at the time. I was there myself, so I know exactly. In all this time, while Mrs De Vries' VVD was also in the government, we have never cut back on education. We've invested extra in it because it's so important. I shall now continue with that plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u66	I have to say that's a very different sound. But then it would also be fine and good to acknowledge that this cabinet also invests heavily in education. It's invested $2 billion. You deny that on all sides. I think that is a pity, because it would be a good thing if you would also tell the cabinet that you think that is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u67	But I do not deny that more funding is being made available for workload and higher salaries in primary education. It's just that we don't think it's enough. We think, to be precise, that 580 million should be added. Mr Asscher also tabled a motion to that effect before the General Reviews. We don't think it's enough. That's why the teachers are on strike. It's not like you're not making anything available; I'm not saying that either. But there are hidden cuts in the education budget while extra money is being allocated to Defence, rising to 1.5 billion. I just don't understand anything about that. I do not understand how there can be cuts in an education budget in these times of abundance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u68	The interview of Mr Nijboer's foreman was also clear, but still to understand it really well: is the Labour Party going to vote against the Education budget in a moment, and thus also against extra money for tackling workload in primary schools, against extra money for pre-school and early school education, against extra money for technical VMBO and against extra money for beta and technology? Because that is, of course, also a consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr Slootweg may end all posts, but if you look at the Education budget for 2019 and the Education budget for 2020, it will be 300 to 400 million less than this year. And we're not voting for a lower education budget next year. This is partly due to the cuts I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u70	I think my question was clear: do you vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u71	So we vote against, yes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u72	You will therefore vote against additional work pressure elementary schools, extra money for early school education, extra money for technical VMBO and extra money for science and technology. That's true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mr Slootweg mentions here all the intensifications that have been included in the budget and in itself we share those individual intensifications. But on balance, for next year, this cabinet will be presenting a budget that is lower than this year's, in times when educational investment is so immense. This applies to higher education in particular: where student numbers are not decreasing, a cut is simply presented. I'm not gonna take that for my hood. I want to change that. I would like to work with you to get that off the table, as well as with D66, because I see Mr Sneller already standing there, but if we do not change this, we cannot support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u74	Finally, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u75	Let's talk about the starting point. I think everyone here is very sorry about what happened at the Montessori School in Amsterdam, but isn't it a little too easy to say that this is only because of extra money? Have the inspection reports, which I believe were there during the time when your foreman was alderman in Amsterdam, not been a reason to take a look? Is this just the Empire's money, Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u76	No. Mrs De Vries also made this point; there is much more going on. There is also a general concern, including at the PvdA, about educational quality. That quality is sometimes below par. We are also starting a whole discussion on Article 23 because some schools, despite the money, offer poor quality and we do not think that this is acceptable. These are also problems, but additional money is also needed to reduce the workload to keep the profession attractive. Because there aren't enough teachers. It takes extra money to give a decent reward to the people who do that job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u77	In my opinion, Mr Nijboer's reasoning on the education budget is inadequate as a financial spokesman. I think that if he looks at it again, he will come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u78	No, I didn't. I took a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u79	However, my question concerns the alleged consistency of Mr Nijboer's educational position. Because I hear a lot from the PvdA about closing the pay gap between primary and secondary education. But isn't it true that the PvdA went into the elections with the proposal to increase that pay gap, and not to reduce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u80	That's about the 0.25% round. I believe that we gave 3.5% above expected wage developments and 3.25%, so normal wage developments plus 3.5% or 3.25%. That round did not go well at the time and that was bad in the field of education. Well, Mr. Sneller has heard our commitment. We believe that primary education, which especially basic teachers deserve a better salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes, I have heard the new position of the PvdA, but that is why I am asking for consistency, because Mr Nijboer himself is so keen on it. When it comes to closing a pay gap, and if you think this is so important, don't you come to the elections with a rounding difference? Mr Nijboer knows exactly how these systems work, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u82	That's the way it is, Mr. Chairman. We have a substantial increase in our electoral programme for all teaching staff. And we covered that, too. One was 3.5% and the other 3.25%. I'm gonna say it right out of my head, because this was calculated two and a half years ago. I think that was what we had and I'm still ahead of it. That is what I am talking about here: improve the remuneration in education and start with it now in secondary special education. That's where people are underpaid, and you heard that. And also reward elementary school teachers better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u83	Finally, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr Nijboer says "two and a half years ago," but he suggested less at that time than the cabinet has already done. So a little more modesty would be appropriate in view of the PvdA's track record and given the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u85	I see a broad wish in the Chamber to look far back and I have no problem with that. I have no problem with that, but I would like to outline the social context. I myself was the financial spokesman and thus responsible for budgetary policy when we had a deficit of 20 billion on the public budget. Now we have 10 billion in surplus. As a society, you can make different choices. My plea is aimed at achieving that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u86	No more reruns, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u87	No. If we looked back far, I'd be talking about the zero line that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet pulled through. Now I'm just talking about the election programme that the PvdA put down and the credit transfers from the Central Planning Office, which also included a surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u88	I have just explained that we are in favour of a wide-ranging increase in salaries in education, that we are still in favour of this and that we are now in favour of giving extra wage increases to those primary school teachers and teachers in secondary special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u89	I don't want to go far back in time. I want to go back to the last year the PvdA was about education in our country. Then the Education budget was 37 billion. Next year, Minister Hoekstra will give 44 billion to education, i.e. 7 billion to it. 1.9 billion extra for education. We had to close the hole of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet before we could put money in it. So 1.9 billion extra and 7 billion since then. Really, modesty would adorn Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u90	With D66, and by the way also with the Christian Union, Carola Schouten did so at that time as financial spokesman for the Christian Union, I was very committed to investing extra in education in financial difficult times. We did, and I'm still holding that plea. I remember Lodewijk Asscher being addressed here in our missionary period. People didn't think he was able to abuse his outgoing position in the cabinet because he refused to sign the education budget that was below par. That is the line we are going through now, yes. You don't have to be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u92	So next year's budget is lower than this year's. That is very strange in these times, when there is also inflation and there is a need for more investment. That's why I'm so focused on this. Mr. Chairman. I was living. There the cabinet does something, but if you're honest it's less than announced beforehand. A large fund of 2 billion was promised. If you add it up in 10 years, that's right. Then there's $2 billion available. But assuming the way we normally talk, it's just 100 million a year, and also temporarily, for ten years, and four times 250 million. Indeed, part of this will be spent on nitrogen, as Mr Snels has pointed out in today's debate. Mr. Chairman. Well, that's a little shrill when it comes to what it takes. If you look at next year alone, I ask the Minister of Finance there to confirm that the landlord levy is ultimately higher than this year. Is that right, despite the $100 million? Does that mean that there will be less building next year instead of more affordable rentals? That's what we're talking about. Is that enough if you know what the problems of tenants are right now? A quarter can hardly pay the rent anymore; a quarter of the tenants can hardly make ends meet. Investors take over the cities. Starters don't get in anymore. Of course, investigations have been announced, but what's really happening? It keeps going on and on. I think it is a good thing that the cabinet is doing something, but I think it does too little to solve the real problems of the people. Mr President, I come to the municipalities and municipal facilities. I see that Mr Slootweg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u93	Yeah, he just came in. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u94	I was a little worried about that, because my teaching point was actually an important point. We were just having a little debate about it, and I may not be very flexible about the 100 million. It is a lot of pieces to read and sometimes I do not always have it ready, but I understand that this EUR 1 billion boost can be used flexibly. I do not know exactly what you want now, but I think what you are actually proposing is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u95	I am very much in favour of this, because I would have understood that in the case of the four times 250 million, with the ten times 100 million actually in the budget. But is it true that the cabinet can promise that next year's landlord tax will go down by 250 million and the next three years as well? That is my request; that is also a very simple request. That was my proposal, so I am pleased that you want to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u96	But I think the proposal is a cabinet proposal, so I need...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u97	No, there's ten times 100 million in the budget, in the millions we got.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u98	It says, on average, 100 million. I am just reading out what the letter says: the EUR 1 billion boost can be used flexibly over that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u99	I'm fine with it. I'm in favour of that. But there is just a series of ten times 100 million in the budget that we have been sent, and that is what we are talking about today. If that is different and can be 250 million four times, I think that is a good thing. As far as I am concerned, we will do even more in the next cabinet period, where we hope more will be done for living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u100	We all want to do more for living, I guess. It would also be nice if there were indeed people who could realize the plans. Let us pass on this question, because then it will be clear, even to the cabinet, exactly how that is in the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u101	So that's a question to the cabinet, through Mr Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yeah, that question was already asked. Mr. Chairman. I come to congregations. Because because this cabinet has not spent its money, which is included in the budget for this year, municipalities now have a huge problem. In the middle of the year, they have to announce massive cuts at once. I do not think this is so much a pity for these municipalities, but I do think it is a great concern for the inhabitants, because libraries, swimming pools, village houses and social services are threatened with destruction. I would ask the cabinet to do something about this, because these municipalities really cannot help you failing to honour your promises made in last year's Million Note. Mr. Chairman. The final point on the budget is the workload and appreciation in the broad public sector. People who work in care and do important work there. Police officers, of which more were promised but which are currently less on the streets than before. That's something that needs to be dealt with. We have also earmarked 2 billion for this in the counter-budget that we have drawn up together with the SP and GroenLinks. Mr President, I come to the Wopke Wiebesfonds. What I, as a parliamentarians, always look forward to most when reading the Millions Note, is Chapter 2. Such a Millions note has been leaked nicely, it's popped up, it's sworn out in the media, so there's not much news in terms of investment anymore. But in chapter 2, the macroeconomic analysis of the cabinet reads: how does the cabinet view financial and economic policy at this time? I was looking forward to that, because I heard about this fund and thought: there will be a best analysis, as Groningers say, underneath it. What happens in a long-term low-interest environment? What do you have to invest in to keep the future earning capacity of the economy together? How do you prevent inequality from growing further in the world, with all those companies that are getting richer when the mbk is sometimes difficult to get along with? Actually none of that, none of that! An investigation of a fund is announced. Lessons are not even drawn from previous experiences with the Economic Structure Strengthening Fund. I expected: we learned these lessons; it was founded; therefore we do not do this. I even heard thoughts about a sovereign wealth fund. Officials seem to have already travelled to Singapore to learn from that. But that can't be the answer of this cabinet, a sovereign wealth fund? That's borrowing money to invest abroad. The Netherlands as one big hedge fund. If that's the bet, please throw your big plans right into the trash. Mr. Chairman. When you think about what's needed for the economy, everyone you talk about actually says that the most important investment in a well-educated population is in education and research. We have just had quite a debate on this. The PvdA doesn't think that's enough. But if you do, and if you think that's important, Minister Hoekstra also said it in his party speech: that's very important, then there must be structural money for that, and not occasional. But none of that analysis in the Millions note. Mr. Chairman. Then it is shabby to have to read in the media that tens of billions will be available for the distant future. That amount is nowhere in the Millions Note, in which Parliament should be informed. We should simply read that in the newspaper; with no thought, with no purpose, with no solution, just a claim of who owns this fund. Under a worse star, this fund could not have started. Of course, there are public needs and investment is needed, but start with what is needed and with an analysis of them. And then come up with a solution. This is the opposite. Mr. Chairman. I come to budgetary policy. The Council of State is cracking critical notes on that. To be honest, it has also become quite inimitable for budget speakers. I have seen three principles of Hoekstra's budgetary policy. The first principle is: you say one thing, but you do the other. Example 1. "I think the Compliance Act is very important," "understanding quality," "budgeting," "we're not going to make plans until we've really thought it through, and I'm going to stick with ministers." Announce a large investment fund, with no analysis at all. I don't know how you want to do it. Example 2. "I'm running trendy fiscal policies." This means that when the economy is at its peak, you don't have to cut back in bad times, causing unemployment to rise. That's what we stand for, that's what we feed. But what does the Cabinet do? That brings forward 3 billion relief at the moment. That is the opposite of trendary fiscal policy. Hence the debate on the salmon standard. Mr. Chairman. The second principle is that I do not do what is allowed under the budgetary rules. Last year we had a whole debate in the Lower House about the government's over 5 billion under-utilisation at that time. I made a strong plea at the time to fill in the targets that were still in the various budgets and to cover the interest rate increase for students. The increase in interest rates was already on the verge of dying in the First Chamber; anyone who could see that coming a little bit would have seen that coming. That was allowed under the budgetary rules, but Minister Hoekstra sat there like a Colin of the twenty-first century: reducing debts and building buffers are the most important thing, so we're not going to do that. Mr. Chairman. The third principle: what is not allowed, we do. We are putting the spending frameworks and burdens together; we are financing it with each other. The budgetary frameworks are being adjusted on five points, namely five points. This happens even for relatively small amounts. And then we say to the Chamber: but if you want to cover something and if you want to spend extra money, then you have to respect the budgetary rules, because you can't deviate from that. This does not improve the credibility of budgetary policy. I hear the minister muttering, but I'm really worried about that. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting on the IRS. I would like to highlight three elements on which the PvdA Group would like to see a change in the cabinet. First of all, the reduction in the tax on profits for large companies to 21.7%. When you think about the economy and who pays the taxes, you always have to think about where we make that money. Mrs De Vries had a lot to say about this. What are the problems in society and what is a reasonable tax that we all have to impose in order to pay our public services? Mr. Chairman. That analysis leads me, and I think even the Prime Minister, who is from the right, to the fact that the profitability of the big Dutch business is not the big problem. That really is not the macroeconomic problem at the moment. This is because people's incomes are lagging behind. So I find it inimitable that 2.4 billion is earmarked for it. That is a tax issue, but it is one of the biggest expenditures, one of the main priorities, of this cabinet. A second reason is that we are also taking the lead in Europe in the race to the bottom with regard to profit tax rates. If we do not want that, if we want companies to pay their fair share, then we as the Netherlands should not participate. Then we should not lead the way, because then France and Belgium will follow and Mrs De Vries' middle incomes will eventually pay the bill. So we shouldn't want that. In short, my appeal to the cabinet is: not only push through that reduction for a year, but take it completely off the table. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point on which I ask the cabinet to amend the Tax Plan. The main objective of the tax system is, of course, to raise money to pay for our public services. But it is also an instrument for fair income policy. Everyone recognizes that. As far as the PvdA is concerned, there really is a fundamental problem with the tax plan before us. You can see that the highest incomes benefit the most and the lowest the least. The cabinet seems to really embrace the theory of trickle-down economics: if things are going well with the workers, then the rest will go along. But that theory is completely out of date. It doesn't hang the PvdA. It's not a good theory either. You have to do something extra to get lower incomes to come along and benefit from economic growth. When you look at the flat tax, you see that the cabinet does exactly the opposite. The rate for the highest incomes goes down at one stroke by 2.25%, to 49.5%. That's what the Cabinet pays a lot of money for. That's what's gonna happen. And the rate in the first disc, where the people with the lowest income are in, goes up by 0.7%. That's exactly the wrong move. That's what you see in the purchasing power picture. I don't care about the numbers behind the decimal point. I agree with everyone that politics is not about that. But here's what I'm talking about. The most difficult people, such as the tenants, the disabled and the elderly, are on average improving €20. The Nibud figures showed that there are also people who only improve €6 in the month. With the highest incomes, that is €200 in the month. You can't expect a social-democratic party to sign it. I could have done those negotiations for years, and I never would have accepted this as a result. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned the third point. That's the landlord's tax. The problems of tenants are now increasingly shared in the Chamber. Only the VVD says there's no problem. You don't get there by raising taxes a little bit less. That is what the cabinet does in the end, but then there are not enough affordable social housing. Then the rents cannot be sufficiently moderated. On this point, therefore, we ask the cabinet to make an extra effort. Finally, Mr President. The PvdA is a reasonable opposition party. We will therefore continue to make proposals. We have done so with the counter-budget, together with GroenLinks and the SP, but we will also continue to make proposals ourselves to improve and adjust the policy. My own experience from the past is also that your policy and your legislative proposals will improve if you accept proposals from colleagues, including opposition parties. It can get better sometimes. We'll keep doing that. We will support the proposals that make the Netherlands stronger, that improve education, that improve investment in the quality of the public sector and that make the Netherlands fairer. If the opposite happens, the PvdA Group will not support the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u103	It's a good practice for the PvdA to break election promises. Now they're doing the same thing in the opposition. I saw in the counter-budget that one's own risk is halved, while the electoral programme states that it is completely abolished. Why do you break your promise there again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u104	It's very simple. The election program is in four years. We want to eliminate the whole risk in four years. In a budget, you cannot include everything you want to achieve in four years. So we're taking one step towards halving. We recorded them last year, but last year of course it didn't happen. The following year, we would take the second step towards abolition. That's completely congruent. I thought you'd come up with a good painful remark, but this is just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u105	I understand the PvdA doesn't feel painful anymore if they don't keep election promises. In that respect, the lot has a thick skin. But do I see from this that you say that next year, in the next counter-budget, the own risk is completely gone? Then what do you do with the student debt system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u106	With ChristianUnion, D66 and other parties, we are in favour of really adapting the current student loan system, because students get way too much debt. That's what we're gonna try to do. With regard to one's own risk, you can't do everything in one year. That's why we do it in four years. If the cabinet is not going to halve its own risk this year, it looks like it will, of course, be unable to take that step in one go next year. Then, just like last year's counter-budget, there will be another step towards abolition. It is also logical in the budgetary system that you do not include everything you want to achieve in increasing years. 'Cause it's true, isn't it? We've got a cover budget. Sometimes you have rising income and you can also step up in intensification. That's why you can't do everything at once. If the cabinet doesn't take half that step, it'll have another half ring in it next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u107	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u108	They're wonderful words to say that you just don't realize what you write in your election program, even in a counter-budget. Even in the opposition, you're being cheated by the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u109	This was rehearsed, because I think I have given adequate answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u110	I know Mr Nijboer as a sound financial spokesman, but I must honestly say that I think the opportunism about education and the budgetary rules are a bit far-reaching. Another point, as far as I am concerned, is the following. This morning it was announced with a lot of bombs that the PvdA will vote against all the government's tax plans. I am curious whether the PvdA is going to vote against increasing the healthcare allowance, against reducing the tax on the energy bill, against companies that are going to pay more for energy in favour of consumers, against the working costs of SMEs, against indexing the voluntary allowance, against raising the bank tax, against introducing a withholding tax on interest and royalties. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u111	That is up to Mrs De Vries. I have just outlined three clear conditions, improvements, which are necessary for the PvdA to make movements and to support it. I'm happy to support it. I'm in politics to do something. I want to achieve a fairer tax system, more affordable rentals and no reduction in the tax on profits. We have 30% profit tax in our counter-budget. To ask me to go along with a reduction is too much to ask. I would like to talk about it, so it is up to Mrs De Vries whether she is seeking wider support in the Chamber. The minister's laughing, but he hasn't gotten the proposal through the First Chamber yet, so we'll see. It is up to Mrs De Vries to make that move. If that is not the case, then our position is clear. I think I have highlighted my three reasons very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u112	I understand very well that you stand for certain things and that you disagree with all the plans. However, I must say that I wish Mr Nijboer every success in explaining to him that he did not vote for a reduction in the energy bill and for raising the healthcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u113	As a Social Democrat, I find it not at all complicated to explain that I do not support a tax plan in which the highest incomes get ten times more than the lowest. A Social Democrat will never support that in his life. We have never tabled such a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr. Chairman. After a remarkably beautiful speech on Prince's Day, Minister Hoekstra added a little more to it on Sunday. In his church he held the King's talk about the double responsibility of a wealthy young man who was ordered to sell everything, to distribute the proceeds among the poor and thus to acquire a treasure of eternity, and thus also about the double responsibility of this Minister of Finance and about the double responsibility of me as a popular representative, financial spokesman and thus his controller. In this sense of double responsibility that we are not here first of all for ourselves, but because we want to do the right thing for the other, I am discussing three theories today. Number one. Returns from the past do not guarantee the future, but achievements from the past, on the other hand, are the best basis for policy. Policies are often formulated on the basis of models, estimates and dogmas, but they are often one-sided. An example. The ECB pursues price stability with inflation below but close to 2%, but inflation has not exceeded 2% in the euro area for years. Core inflation hasn't really recovered from that for two decades, no matter what the ECB does. It is time to face reality and let go of that model 2% fetish. DNB director Knot suggested a bandwidth between zero and 2% last week. That's fine. This prevents pension-destructive negative interest rates and reform-distorting buy-back operations. I know that Minister Hoekstra does not want to influence the central banks, but he is the one who co-determines the mandate and mandate of the ECB. Does he wish to support this message and convey it to his European colleagues? The second example in terms of realisation: where has the Netherlands completely failed in terms of investment in recent years? Exactly, and it has already been mentioned by Mr Nijboer, for example: knowledge, innovation and infrastructure. A lot of fine words when the top sectors policy was introduced in 2011 but in reality it was an empty shell because under Rutte I the specific innovation policy at Economic Affairs was completely reduced. Many fine words in the first two Rutte Cabinets about piety, but in reality about 25 billion were cut out of the infra fund and despite the impulse of this cabinet on infra, the fund was practically programmed up to 2030. What the Netherlands needs is a strong investment agenda. Let us prepare our country as viceroy Joseph better for lean years. Around 1960, Minister of Finance Lieftinck gave the wise warning about gas revenues: what we should not do is pay infinite expenses from that finite source. The same applies to borrowed funds. We are now 60 years ahead and 60 years wiser. I want to be able to rely on the fact that, if this investment agenda is to come about, frankly, its name does not interest me, then it is about finite, one-off investments in knowledge infrastructure and infrastructure and thus sustainable, profitable investments for the next generations. Does the Minister share this view? And yes, let politicians determine the frameworks in advance. Investing in the future, not the present. Investing all over the country, not just in the Randstad. Investing in knowledge and infrastructure, not in structural expenditure. Investing in innovative forms of transport, not in regular maintenance. Investing in the future of our children, not in the nostalgia of the 20th century. Yeah, let's fight a little political robbery over these conditions and let's all do so under democratic control, but let's have the courage as a political courage to let go of the substantive process afterwards for the sake of the future of our country, so that we don't have all kinds of gripping departments to cover structural spending again with one-off money. Mr. Chairman. Our country is on the verge of great transitions that are all interrelated. For example, urban construction means better and faster, less or maybe even less parking spaces, but also less emissions, less nitrogen deposition. This is good for housing, good for the climate and good for the quality of life of the cities. Actually, it's good for everything and for everyone. The major cities and regions outside the Randstad are bursting with concrete plans. But for now we drive here in The Hague with our buses and trams on average still with a snail corridor of 18 km/h. That's barely harder than the horse tram from two centuries ago. The trains still run less than 200 km/h. If you get to choose between the car, which is not going to be faster than 100 km/h, and a train that is at least double-driving, then the choice is made this way, isn't it? The second thesis: the absurd has become the new normal. I have already mentioned negative interest rates and quantitative increases. Last year I talked about the effects of the bubble on the housing market. But if it seems absurd to have become a rule somewhere, then it is the marginal tax burden. Last Friday, in response to the Stoffer motion, the Secretary of State finally sent the inquiry into marginal pressure to the Chamber. What everyone already knew, we read back in black and white: different groups have to deal with extreme maximum pressure. This has to do with how well we provide low-income households in our country, but also with many injustices in our tax system. This cabinet halves that absurd marginal pressure. Apparently, the measures in the coalition agreement inspired the officials in their investigations, but frankly, I found that a little disappointing as well. For where is the variant to decentralize part of the burden on labour to tax on the house, or to shift it to other tax sources? Where is the variant to reduce allowances in exchange for higher benefits and a higher minimum wage, so that the marginal pressure at the bottom of the income building can get a little higher and lower elsewhere? Where is the out of the box thinking of the officials? I think there was plenty of time for that in the past year, wasn't there? At the very least, I want to hear that these variants will be included in the building blocks. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. My third and final theorem: do not reduce differences by increasing differences elsewhere. Let me begin by complimenting the Snels/Nijboer initiative and its adoption by the cabinet, which reduces differences. But on the subject of differences, I have two things to say. All the tax reform opinions of the last ten years say: lower tax rates by broadening the tax bases. In the case of corporate income tax, the cabinet continues to broaden the tax base. But the promised reduction of the Vpb is failing this year. Since the cabinet already considerably increases the burden on the business community, I wonder if you can do that without losing the stamp of trustworthy government in the entrepreneurial Netherlands. How do the rulers see that? What's really bothering me is this. Although the reduction of the self-employed deduction broadens the income tax base, in return the already high labour discount is increased by billions. By 2020, the employment discount will cover 21 billion. It is understood that this had perfectly fit under the thesis that the absurd is the new normal. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Why does the government opt for lower tax rates for all Dutch citizens when it comes to reducing the burden on citizens? How does this relate to the objectives of the building block path in order to achieve simplification? And what does this do with the marginal pressure? Does the cabinet still intend to shape the increase in the working discount in such a way that, in particular, the roof structure is extended? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Can the directors still guarantee that the gap between one and two earners will not increase during this cabinet period, despite the measures just mentioned? After all, this cabinet has a policy commitment that the already large purchasing power differences between one and two earners do not increase any further. That seems to be almost successful next year, but not at all. I call on the Cabinet to make up for this next year and at least not to widen the gap. How is the cabinet going to do that, now that the general tax rebate and the labour rebate are being increased so enormously, when we know that these are precisely the difference magnifiers? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I started with the Minister's King's speech about that radical mission of the rich young man. When you have money, you have friends. When you spend money on good, you create eternity value. I hope that both rulers take this beautiful story of the Gospel to heart, according to Marcus, when managing finances, when smoking out the mailbox companies, when maintaining our pensions, when building a prosperous Netherlands for our children and when designing a fairer tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u116	Much of what Mr Bruins has said about our tax system appeals to me, even when it comes to the sole earners, because there is this very high marginal pressure. But Mr Bruins is also responsible for the choices this cabinet has made. The point is that the first disc is going up again and the top fare is going down. Then you see that all the marginal pressure, all the phasing-out routes of tax rebates including the surcharges, are put into an even smaller trajectory. We're only making the problem bigger. Then why do you choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr Snels knows that, as a Christian Union, we are basically in favour of broadening and lowering tariffs. In this coalition agreement and during this period beautiful things are happening in that area. Those are nice first steps. The burden on citizens is going down; the burden on businesses is going up de facto. All Dutch people see that this tax is getting better and better. But at the same time I also say that it is a first step and I would actually like to go further. I can go with Mr Snels in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u118	Sure. Let us spend a few weeks on the tax system and then we come, I think, with a fairly minimal budget for better choices. But then the question is: why the first disc rate up? That's not consistent with your story, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u119	There are a lot of beautiful things that happen; there are also things in this Tax Plan that are less beautiful. And those are certainly not all Christian Union choices. The whole package looks pretty good. We are extremely pleased about the reduction in the burden on citizens of EUR 3 billion. At the same time, I would prefer to see a simpler tax system, not to put it all into discounts and actually spend it on reducing charges for all Dutch people through a tax rate reduction. That is not the case at the moment, but the first steps will be taken in the coming years. And I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u120	The Christian Union is right to note that the gap between one and two-earners with this budget is not getting that much more than a little bit bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yeah, a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u122	And he's yelling at........................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'd say one more scoop on top, narrow that gap a little bit. But what if the government doesn't? What will Mr Bruins do next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u123	I want to hear from the Minister that he will. That's the answer I expect from him tomorrow. If he says other things, I'm gonna start frowning my eyebrows first, and then we're gonna take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u124	That's where we're gonna stick together. And I'll hold you to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u125	I have a question about income policy. The Christian Union is very concerned about people who are having a hard time. We also got a good debt section in the government agreement. If we want to make proposals to give the people who have the least, a little extra, because they are left behind in relation to other income groups, is that what Mr Bruins is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u126	Let me begin by saying that it is good to see that all income groups are improving according to expectations. I find it rather difficult to put it that way here, because we always see that these purchasing power plates have an enormous appeal. I would prefer to draw less attention to this than more, because so much is changing over the course of a year. At the same time, we also know that many of the effects in the tax system are percentage; x percent of a low salary is less than x percent of a high salary. There are a few realities in it that make you a little despondent. At the same time, we can see that everyone is in the plus for next year. I find that very encouraging to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u127	But that's not really an answer to my question. I recognize everything that Mr Bruins has just said, but my question was: is Mr Bruins in favour of doing something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u128	In any case, I am going to look favourably at all the proposals of the PvdA, she said that we are already, of course, very satisfied with what lies ahead, given that all the Dutch are in the plus according to the expectations and the calculations. But for good ideas, there must always be time to look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u129	A fine plea for further relief. That's consistent with the story I kept. I think we have also made good agreements on 3 billion additional burden relief. I said in my story: let's also look at the windfall formula. We could see how you could re-introduce it, how you could not only pay off the public debt, but also how you could use it to reduce the burden. Then, of course, you always have to watch how to arrange it and how to arrange it. What would the Christian Union be like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u130	It's quite an exciting idea to agree with each other in advance on how you're going to distribute windfalls when there are windfalls. At the same time, I'm a little hesitant to record such a long year, because every time needs its own wisdom. If you know how volatile the Dutch economy is, something that seems to be jauching in the plus right now, can cause a damper in 2021 or 2022, then I don't know if you want to record those kinds of things strictly long-term. Talking to each other about what's wise if you have a windfall, we should definitely do it, but at the rate of recording I would have a spare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u131	Of course, we agree on this kind of thing every cabinet period, so it wouldn't be for eternity. I would say, then, let's agree for the rest of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u132	That is something that can certainly be considered. We're about halfway there. At the second half you go to the other side of the football field and then you can talk to each other about what the stadium looks like on that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr. Azarkan, you do know how to play soccer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u134	Fair, I might add. I'd be happy to do it. We're back in competition tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr. Azarkan can play football very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u136	That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u137	Don't flatter too much, because I had prepared a nice interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u138	But you forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u139	No, I'm not. I'd already shared it. Last year I heard a nice story from Mr Bruins about Joseph and the grain barn. Every time has its wisdom. That was applicable at that time, but now I wonder how Mr Bruins, from Joseph's perspective, looks at the way of budgeting this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u140	That's a pretty good question, because this cabinet is pretty generous. The Christian Union always wants to be very careful and prudent in dealing with the national finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u141	And the answer is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u142	The answer is that from 2021 onwards, the big plus that we see on the rich budget is already threatening to go to a zero or even a minus. So if you want to spend, you have to spend it mainly on one-off investments and not on structural expenditure. Everything that was in structural space is spent. We do have a very generous Minister of Finance this year. It is good that we can and can, but let us be very aware of what a moving economy we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u143	A little sharper, though. That was a nice story last year, but that's it. I will look at what Mr Bruins has done from his party to ask the cabinet in this case to be really more economical, to save a little more for those more difficult times. I notice that he says a little euphemistically "very generous," but that they have actually just spent too much money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u144	I actually think it is a very nice compliment from Mr Azarkan that he actually says: 'This cabinet takes very good care of the public sector'. And it is. At the same time, we still see the cautious Hoekstra we have seen in recent years. It is very alert that occasional space is used for incidental expenditure and structural space for structural expenditure. If there were any structural space next year, that would be wonderful; that means that the economy is still thriving, and I stand with Mr Azarkan at the front of the microphone to see what needs to be done with it. I note that the sovereign debt is still projected to go down, and that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u145	To begin with, it is not. In my view, public debt is going up to 402 billion in 2021, 397 billion this year, and 397 billion next year. So I think it's just going up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u146	I'm talking about percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u147	I would ask Mr Bruins when was the last time he paid by percentage. I think we're just paying with pennies. So it's really about the government debt going up. We have thought together that this is a kind of ratio, but in the end it really goes up and our next generations, our children, have to cough it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u148	Fortunately, I also called on the Minister to invest in the future. I assume that our gross national product will continue to increase, and that is ultimately the percentage of gross national product.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u149	Let's get to the last point. I heard Mr Bruins say that he was happy that everyone was making progress. Then I wonder how he solves the problem of pensioners in metal, because they do not improve. They're in the point cloud somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u150	Pensions are a very difficult problem. We have many debates about this in this house, and rightly so. Fortunately, we have the AOW, the first pillar, which the government is actually about, and the second pillar, pensions. I have talked about this absurdly low rate of interest almost half of my contribution to the debate. It is important that we do something about this as soon as possible, because that low interest rate, that negative interest rate, is artificial. That is a policy choice, as we heard from the experts in the technical briefing last week. That won't be necessary. As soon as possible, we must also ensure that normal inflation is restored and that normal interest rates are calculated so that pension funds can catch their breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u151	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u152	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I was late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u153	No, but you greeted everyone. I think that's very neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u154	Last Prince's Day, this Minister of Finance continued his tradition by once again giving a valuable glimpse into the past. Last year the explorers Scott and Amundsen got a nice central role. This year, the Minister took us to 1906 and took credit for Theo the Master, the Minister of Finance of the 'Cracking Porcelain Cabinet'. Like this minister, the Animal Party looks beyond the 2020 budget alone. But we prefer to take a look at the future. What would the budget of the year 2106 look like? That's the point. With the current, our disruptive 2 degrees policy, it is far from certain whether the Netherlands will have a budget at all in 2106. The third consecutive, groundbreaking IPCC report on the deplorable state of the oceans and climate change leaves no misunderstanding. We are in a climate crisis and a biodiversity crisis. No wonder there's so many climate protests. Whoever walked along will undoubtedly feel supported by the words of the King during Prince's Day, who quoted an Englishman. That England sailor said, "I feel responsible to pass on to younger generations that you must resist when needed." Or, as Loesje says, when does civil disobedience become a moral duty? Those who walked along might also feel supported by the Minister of Finance when he called in his King's speech to watch for the moment when we were thinking with regret: if only we had started earlier. Those were wise words from the Minister, because it shows that this Minister is well aware that time is not free, that time is precious. I wish I'd started it sooner! This may be the underlying idea in the plans for a huge investment fund. In the NRC, Rosanne Hertzberger called for this investment fund to be fully committed to climate action. "For," wrote Hertzberger, "there is one problem in the Netherlands, and that is the same for everyone, young and old, rich and poor, left and right, and that is the climate crisis." My first question to the Minister: is he prepared, given the urgency shown by 30 years of climate science and three groundbreaking IPCC reports, to bring this entire fund to the benefit of climate action? Our government is proud of the Climate Agreement, but the Climate Agreement does little. As you know, the Climate Agreement aims to halve emissions in the Netherlands: 49% by 2030. But that's in the old picture of the here and now. We'll only do half of it. I'd like to explain. We now have the wide welfare monitor with the here and now and the later and the elsewhere. We are not only looking at the current economy, but also at the consequences of how we now live for the future generation and the generation elsewhere. The latter is not the subject of the Climate Agreement at all. That's weird, because elsewhere we're gonna emit about 265 megatons of CO, and that's gonna have to be half of it. That is why the statement is justified that we are only doing half of half of it with the Climate Agreement. Does the Minister follow this reasoning and do he see it that way? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Last week was the great climate demonstration and yesterday the farmers were on the Malieveld, because the livestock has to shrink dramatically. That is what the Animal Party has been saying since it was founded, and it has become clear that many people think so and politicians who claim otherwise there are those in the Chamber who do so. But while livestock in the Netherlands is shrinking, we conclude trade agreements with countries like Brazil and Canada. These are countries that produce under European standards and are increasingly gaining access to the European market. That is, and farmers are absolutely right, unfair competition. Mr. Chairman. That is not all, because not only do we open our borders to cheap meat products from Ukraine and South America, we even finance this same foreign intensive livestock farming with Dutch taxpayers' money. And that goes through the so-called international financial institutions, which are financed mainly with western money. The Ukrainian chicken tycoon MHP has been able to borrow over half a billion in tax money through these institutions in recent years. A few months ago, the Animal Party barely managed to make up another 100 million. A Brazilian cattle giant has been funded by the IFC for 85 million, and we are about to open up our market to spot-buying Brazilian beef. Mr. Chairman. After years of failing agricultural policy, supported by LTO, CDA and VVD, our farmers revolt. But in the meantime, the same CDA and VVD are opening the borders for foreign industrial farmers. And as a blow to the flames, we also fund these industrial farmers once again with our own taxpayers' money. Can the Minister clarify the ratio? Mr. Chairman. Not only international financial institutions invest in dubious projects, our own government is not doing much better. In February of this year, Minister Hoekstra stopped three quarters of a billion dollars in Air France-KLM. Investing in fossil airlines is investing in beached assets. Those are investments that are irreversibly downgraded. Can the Minister explain to us the flight plan how he's going to get rid of those shares again? And commercial banks are also investing in sectors that no longer have a future: the fossil energy sector, intensive livestock farming and greedy aviation outside the law. The Financial Times recently warned of banks that have no idea of the risks their mortgage portfolios run. These are risks like floods caused by climate change. Does the Minister, like the Animal Party, see the risk of investment that could become worthless through climate change, the energy transition and the agricultural transition? Is the Minister prepared to make an assessment of the size of these investments? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There is a lot of attention to so-called green investments, but investment in fossil, aviation, chemistry and intensive livestock farming remains in the room. The elephant in the room is those investments that lead to large-scale damage, destruction or destruction of one or more ecosystems and living creatures inside. Those are investments in ecocides. At present, there are no legal means to prosecute ecocids. People don't take that anymore. Look at what Greta Thunberg says. Look also at the growing and thriving movement Extinction Rebellion or, again, Loesje, "when does civil disobedience become a moral duty?" Mr. Chairman. For the time being, Ursula von der Leyen doesn't feel that she started it too late. Even before it officially started as a new President of the European Commission, it has already proposed a CO border tax. That looks like Columbus' egg. The import of harmful products is becoming more expensive, which makes it much less easy for governments and fossil companies to hide behind the so-called CO leakage. My question to the Secretary of State is whether a CO-frontier tax can be beneficial to the Dutch climate policy and whether the Secretary of State sees a role for himself in this. Mr President, I will conclude. If the Minister fears that he may have started too late, then I can reassure him completely here. Because I can guarantee him he started too late. But we all started too late. We all started saving this system too late. But that's actually fine, because a system that leads to self-destruction isn't worth saving. That's the hope, too. Mr. Chairman. You will believe it or not, but I have spoken to a grandson of a minister who was also in the cabinet of 1906, a grandson of Pieter Rink, far in the 80s. That is what I am offering this minister with the wish that he should pass this book on to his children, who can then present it to the Minister of Finance of the year 2106 for his speech when offering the state budget. In addition, he can tell the story of Wopke; the name which means glorious by fame. Wopke the Minister of Finance who watched for him to get on with it too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u155	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u156	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u157	I see you have 30 minutes, good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u158	Yeah, 30 minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope to deal with it sparingly and well. These are extraordinary economic times. The real economy and the monetary economy are moving further and further apart. The monetary economy has almost become virtual with the ECB's injections of money that are beyond imagination in size. All this to bring down the interest that is already historically low by an abundance of money even further. The result in the real economy in which real people live is that it is bad for pensions and fun for mortgage interest and public debt. Mr. Chairman. These are extraordinary economic times. For decades, the focus has been on reducing public debt, as the burden of interest was heavily on the budget. This focused on the reduction of public expenditure. Now we have come so far that even the President of the Netherlands Bank, a professional black eye, feels that reducing public debt, which now stands at 45%, is no longer a priority. So that's not a business as usual either. Mr. Chairman. The G.B.J. Mr Hiltermann's motion, as it has now been called, of my colleague Mr Krol, you know that mysterious motion on the situation in the world, we have deliberately held on so that she could not only be haunted during the General Reviews, but also later on. A day after the General Political Reviews, despite a good explanation in our view by Henk Krol, NPO Radio 1 and EenVandaag still found the motion somewhat mysterious. It was also amusing to see that in the General Political Reviews roughly a third of the people did not understand the motion, a third felt wetness and a third immediately saw what we intended with the motion. Of course, it has everything to do with Article 142 of the Pension Act. But we have also deliberately deviated from the literal legal text. In spoken language, "exceptional times" and "exceptional situations" are of course very close together, but legally this is different. In a wording with "exceptional economic situation" rather than "exceptional economic times," the link with Article 142 is unambiguous. Then the members of the coalition will probably vote against for that reason alone, I fear. The motion itself does not mention the legal implications and focuses on geopolitics and the macro-economics. That makes it a double-load motion, but also one that we believe all Members of the European Parliament should be able to give their opinion on this without any political discipline. In our view, therefore, all members of parliament of all political groups, opposition and coalition, can follow their hearts with confidence. You do not have to vote against this motion because you cannot fully see the direct legal consequences. The only direct result of the motion is that 50PLUS gives pensioners and active members of pension funds a stick to beat. As Martin Visser of De Telegraaf explained on NPO Radio 1, when the Chamber declares that we live in exceptional economic times, that gives a first hook to get the upcoming pension discounts based on Article 142 off the table. Nothing more and nothing less. We would also appreciate it if all the groups would allow us to abandon the discipline of the political groups. Dutch politics has always found that countries that did not save but financed pensions annually in the same way as we in the Netherlands finance the AOW were doing wrong. But now they seem smarter. If you do not save, but only in 20 years' time to collect euros for pensioners, it will be cheaper and therefore smarter because of inflation. But why are we threatening discounts? This is due to the fact that the current design of the interest rate creates a paper reality which creates deficits on paper. Instead of the actual returns obtained, the amounts that come in and go out will be looked at. Nevertheless, the interest rate is maintained, as if the pension fund were a company in liquidation which should not be valued on the basis of a going concern. As if the pension is not a deferred wage, but should already be given to 5 year olds who have not yet paid contributions. Unlike often the impression is given, the calculation rate is a brew of different interest rates and not a fixed interest rate that you can check on a daily basis. The risk-free interest rate today for the calculation of the claims for a period of 60 to 70 years means that you calculate your arm while the calculation says nothing about the yields made, the inflation and so on. The conclusion can only be that the risk-free interest rate for pensions means that the risk is placed on current pensioners, because they are reduced. The active, current participants are also affected by their pension structure, but they still have the opportunity to repair it if it does not turn out as bleak as predicted by the calculation rate, while many pensioners will not experience it anymore. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS had a good weekend. We see the army of people asking the same critical questions as 50PLUS growing. You can also see that not only pension fund directors think that they can't explain it anymore, but that financial experts like Nout Wellink are already playing the game. Freed from the tightening of the function, there seems to be room for reflection. And also in the newspapers we see more stories about the retirement pots that are not being eaten by the elderly and about doubts about the need to cut pensions. Here, too, there is a greater understanding of an approach that does not disproportionately affect the elderly, except for the armed elderly haters who want to fight between generations. The reality is that active participants, as measured by the calculation rate, actually contribute too little. The funds take into account an average rate of return of 2.8% for the younger participants, while according to the calculation rate it is likely to be less than 1%. And that's how you create optical deficits. It is of two and one: either the premium is cost-covering and then you increase the calculation rate, or you increase the pension premium to a cost-covering level. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank also had to admit last week that there were too low premiums. That's why cutting old people feels wrong. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to purchasing power for pensioners, if it is up to the cabinet, it is not an exceptional economic time. The elderly are once again disappointed at this point, as in the past ten years. Prinsjesdag starts to look a bit like Groundhog Day in that respect. Like the journalist in the film, we wake up again and again on the same day, with disappointment about the failure to predict the improvement in purchasing power and the prediction that there will be an improvement in the coming years. Moreover, it is clear that workers are making more progress than pensioners, as if they are also being forced back to work. Working above the AOW age is nothing wrong, otherwise I wouldn't be standing here. But forcing it is something else. 50PLUS considers that discrimination against older people against workers is not fair. Last year, the CPB survey already showed that there was an increase in charges. Wimar Bolhuis rightly noted that the cabinet simply increases the burden by 1 billion over the whole period. And this year, too, the CPB announces that nothing will happen to the burden on balance next year. Despite repeated fine words from the cabinet about tax cuts, we just wake up on the same day and I can point out this again just like my predecessor Martin van Rooijen. Pensioners will be bumping in the back of the purchasing power cards next year anyway, while there is a threat of huge discounts that have not yet been fully incorporated into the figures. These reductions apply not only to the current pensioners; I have already said that they also apply to future pensioners. That's why the workers are being double-trapped. Not only do the discounts apply to them, but the premiums actually have to be raised tremendously in order to meet the conditions of the pension agreement. The only thing we are asking for is for the calculation rate that is now being paid to young people for the premium to be applied to pensions. That is fair and consistent. But with the pension agreement, younger workers will soon also face the interest-fundamentalism of the coalition. I think that this generation will soon understand pensioners much better. Then they will experience for themselves what cost-covering premiums mean in a zero-interest environment. Then we are all, young and old, treated, not to capital cover but to "capital cover." In view of the attitude of Minister Koolmees that we all have a problem in a capital-covered system if interest rates remain zero for a very long time, that gives us hope for the future. But then it is important that we should at least be able to sit at the bigger table as 50PLUS with more seats. As far as we are concerned, the elections can come. What is striking in the stories about falling interest rates is that ageing is often mentioned as a reason for the declining trend in interest rates over the past decades. In fact, ageing is synonymous with saving. Too much is spared, they say. The case is more complicated than that. The free money and little private investment by companies are other important components. Older people are often blamed for this. They should save less and spend more. But if you have seen the AOW age increase quickly and if you know that the last ten years pensions have not been indexed, that pension reductions threaten, that your own risk in care has doubled, that your own contribution to long-term care has been increased, that the nursing homes have been closed and you have to stay home longer, then that picture is not inviting. Yet there are economists who write that older people should spend more rather than prepare for a frightening future. These economists have forgotten that there is such a thing as a welfare state that people could rely on. Mr. Chairman. There is a point in the plea for more expenditure that I can understand. That is that the elderly are not helping to keep economic growth going. Retiring later, threatening pension reductions and an annual decline in purchasing power make these generations more conducive to economic growth, as their wallet is less filled. Ageing as the cause of the problems is again choir on the mill of lovers of a somewhat more totalitarian regime, in which older people have less or no voting rights. However, the last two Rutte Cabinets have significantly intervened in the provision and income of older people. That was with a parliament that on average was more like a youth parliament in terms of age than a parliament as is the case in the neighbouring countries of Europe. No balance in age gives a lack of experience and wisdom, and does not lead to the solidarity between generations so desired by 50PLUS. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet also literally leaves the elderly in the cold, it seems. For the elderly, this policy of government is clearly likely to lead to a very specific burden increase. That is the policy on energy taxes. Sustainability is a high priority for this cabinet. To this end, the tax on gas will be increased and the tax on electricity will be reduced. You may not think about it very often, but the increase in the gas tax seems to be mainly due to a form of old age taxation. After all, older people tend to burn much more than younger generations. Higher temperatures and longer heating times because they are less extrusive. Moreover, the effect of blood thinners is not only that the blood is diluted, it also makes it really colder. Older people are more at home than workers, who can lower their thermostat during the day in order to save. The ageing population leads to higher household energy consumption. Older people thus burn more because of their physical condition and live relatively more often in less well isolated often older houses. The need to stay home longer reinforces this effect. The tenants of low-income social housing are also affected by the high gas tax. 50PLUS believes that the cabinet should seek solutions for these groups in order to prevent this unintended debt-to-GDP ratio from increasing by gas consumption. Is it true that for the standard households I asked the Secretary of State for EZ and Climate last week to monitor the impact of the climate measures but that different consumption patterns of elderly people are not or hardly in the picture? Can a clear picture be given of what it means for the elderly? Mr. Chairman. In a previous summer recess contribution, I have already advocated, on behalf of 50PLUS, a new view of the financial situation of negative interest rates on government bonds, which offers opportunities to better prepare the Netherlands for the future, both by making investments and by considering how domestic spending can be stimulated in order to maintain a responsible economic growth rate rather than ending up in recession again. For the record, this is not a claim to add my name to the list of people who want to attach their name to the investment fund. Not only do I know my place, I have also made that plea with reference to a number of renowned economists. It's just a somewhat longer-playing theme among these experts. We are pleased that there will be a possible investment fund that could make the Netherlands stronger in many ways. As far as I am concerned, however, agreement will only be reached if good and new projects are financed. Good investment in the strength of society and the economy will make our future permanent. That's nothing more than what 50PLUS would like. As far as we are concerned, this includes lifelong learning. This is a project that makes society stronger without falling into traditional investment standards. Another point, Mr President. In addition to the ambiguous story of the cabinet about the burden, the budget surplus is systematically underestimated. The CBS reported that a surplus of EUR 14 billion had already been recorded in the first months of this year. Mr Van Dijck thought this was all over the year, but no, we are halfway through and we already have a surplus of 14 billion. That's a huge amount of money. It also ring a bell in my second instance and after a quick calculation, but for that I have to go back to my previous period. As a result of the reactions outside the microphone, this has to be because Parliament suffers from parliamentary dementia when it comes to what has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u159	Well, you're talking about yourself now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u160	No, I'm talking about parliament. What I want to talk about, that's where I'm coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u161	We don't suffer from dementia. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u162	In my second period in this Chamber, from '89 to '94, there was the WAO crisis. Major measures were needed to curb the growth of public debt. As bad as the state finances were before, so full were the pension pots. Pay increases could be financed from the bonus holidays and so on. But today we have the mirror image of how dramatic retirement provision is being presented and how much public debt is no longer a problem that deserves priority over other matters. Mr. Chairman. Then why did a ring a bell with me? That is because I sometimes have an irresistible tendency to express it in guilders when it comes to amounts. And what's pale? The budget surplus of EUR 14 billion in the first half of the year is guilder 32 billion. Let that also be the notorious amount that Lubbers and Kok took out of the ABP in the 1990s. I was there, I looked at it and then I co-approved it because of the difficult situation of the government's finances. The cabinet and we as Chamber also play a role in the formal employership of civil servants. In doing so, we have an additional responsibility for the pensions of civil servants, pensioners and workers. Strictly speaking, you should actually calculate a 25-year return on that EUR 14 billion: interest on interest. Then we get to astronomical amounts. There would have been no less than 70 to 80 billion euros taken from the ABP. I can calculate about how much coverage that would yield, but I would like to ask the Minister to tell me what 14 billion and 80 billion are different in coverage levels. I admit once again that I was there, but perhaps that is why I feel some moral responsibility for the decisions taken at that time than others here in the Chamber. Moreover, I have always thought that the money would be returned in one way or another, because the word 'robbery' fits with the non-return and the word 'borrowing' fits more with the use at that time. Mr. Chairman. I know there's some laughing around here when people talk about ABP robbery, but when pensions are cut by 10%, it's a whole different story. It might be a good compromise if we forget the interest rate for those 25 years and just give the nominal amount back to the ABP, the place where it comes from. In doing so, we, as a cabinet and a chamber, play our employers' role in a good way. This, of course, also means good news for the still working participants, who are not reduced in their claims. Mr. Chairman. These are still exceptional economic times. This also has an impact on housing. Like Mr Heerma, we want to talk about housing rather than the housing market. There's an impulse planned. That's what we've just had a discussion about. They asked: "Is it 1 billion or is it ten times 100 million? And will there be another four times 250 million, so that it will be 2 billion?" But apart from that: we are dealing with the point that I have already said in an interruption to Mr Slootweg that the proceeds of the landlord's levy, once introduced as a crisis measure to fuel the state's greenhouse, are actually much higher than what the government provides for as revenue, while on the other hand there is a crisis in housing and a very substantial task in building and sustaining rentals. That impulse would look like a tip. We are concerned about rising house prices and reduced access to the housing market, partly due to low interest rates. The oldest and the youngest Dutch can give each other a hand, because the 70-plussers remember what it was like with the housing shortage, what it was like to have to live with your family with children with parents and in-laws or other family, and how much money you had to take when buying your first home, with a mortgage that only reached 80% of the valuation value. In that respect old times seem to relive, but without nostalgia. In addition, 50PLUS also looks at more social needs than just housing. 50PLUS notes that there is still a big gap between living at home and not being able to go to scarce nursing homes. In hospitals the wrong bed problem of 20 years ago is completely back in town. In the 1950s and 1960s care homes were built on a large scale to solve the housing shortage. Now the nursing homes should come back in new, small-scale intermediate forms for the real elderly among us. We also thought that this was a useful suggestion for the investment fund in the 'Finance Dagblad' series. Mr. Chairman. These are extraordinary economic times. That is precisely what you notice in the banking world when it comes to threatening negative interest rates on savings. 50PLUS... I see Mr Alkaya standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u163	Finish your sentence, Mr. Van Otterloo. Oh, you'd like to take a sip of water. That's fine. Then Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u164	I thought I'd wait and see. Mr Van Otterloo first suggests that the age of Members of Parliament would be important in proposing initiatives and measures that would benefit older people. Then he comes up with a whole series of measures, of which I wonder: which of these measures in the areas of pensions, housing and health care, has he not found the socialists on his side, regardless of their age?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u165	No, that has not been a reproach to individual parties. I'm talking about the whole thing. The majority here in this Chamber had an age below 50. It has taken a number of decisions, for example on the Wmo and increasing its own risk. When I talk about parliament, I am talking about majority decisions in parliament, not individual decisions. In my time I was in the 40 years old I arranged for AOW beneficiaries to be better placed in the health insurance fund. I've spent 40 years living a troubled life. "Sorry" in the sense that I've taken care of it. So this is not a reproach that you need to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u166	That's good, because I'm one of the younger MPs at 31 years. I want to take that image away from Mr Van Otterloo. This majority has not taken all the measures that are taking older people, because it is young, but because it is neoliberal, because it had to be cut, because it did not want to burden the richer and the multinationals and because it did not want to tackle the shareholders. It would help Mr Van Otterloo in his analysis if he let go of that age fixation and looks at the ideology of those parties. He should not become so fixated on age, because Mr Van Otterloo will find every socialist by his side when it comes to pensions, housing, care homes and community homes for the elderly. He really doesn't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u167	This was also about a plea made by a number of people in columns or in letters, namely that older people should be deprived of their right to vote, because in this Parliament, because of the presence of older people, they would only look at older people's interests. That is what my comments were for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u168	Proceed, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr. Chairman. I have one specific point for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u170	Yeah, or he'll be here for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u171	You can see where the shot's coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u172	That sounds very aggressive, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u173	It is about the capital efficiency levy. He presented a proposal for a different approach in 2022. But that means waiting another two years. So two more years of capital return tax, while the interest rate on savings is virtually zero, or possibly even negative. In our view, that is not possible. We would like to see a proposal which, for example, reduces that element to zero. So we are talking about savings, not the return on shares. If necessary, this is done with a certain limit, in order to prevent entrapment, for example that suddenly money is released from shares on a given date and put into a savings account. Mr. Chairman. Then I have three questions for the Minister in a different capacity. First of all, his responsibility for DNB. We are discussing pension funds. We know we have to be careful when calling DNB. The Minister is the only one who can do this. Mr Knot made the point that a number of funds were in trouble because they did not pay interest. But now we have understood that we were whispered that this also applies to the DNB pension fund. That surprised us, or it didn't surprise us. Then it appears that the predictive ability about how useful this is is to be limited also with DNB. Two. It has already been mentioned by a colleague: the KLM shares. We feel that we have paid a lot for that blue feeling. The question is what we have actually received in the past few months. There was money to invest, but we get the impression that the blue feeling turns into "feeling blue" and that is quite another thing. Finally. ABN AMRO. It is not that I have a motion of censure against the Minister because he has not provided the money laundering practices of ABN AMRO. In the end, he is jointly responsible for this as a shareholder. We would like to know what he did as a majority shareholder and what his predecessors did, when it was still entirely public property, what happened in the direction of the supervisory board and how the supervisory board then sent it to the board, when it came to this element. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u174	Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Slootweg has a question. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u175	I always find it so neat to listen to such a glowing and passionate story, to know if all the points have come along. Thank you for that. Mr Van Otterloo spoke at some point about capital disruption. I understand that 50PLUS wants to distance itself from our current pension system, which has also contributed to the fact that, for example, in the Netherlands, fortunately! Do so few people know poverty after the AOW age? And do you really want to nationalise the savings of pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u176	That's a couple of questions in a row. No, we don't want to get rid of the capital cover system. However, we do want to get rid of an interest rate which systematically undermines the capital cover system. At the same time, we have said in the debate on pensions that we need to examine whether there are mixing systems. One calls it hybrid, the other calls it dual, I don't care. We believe that the system and a good pension should be guaranteed. In our view, this system is still a very nice system, but it does not work sufficiently with the operation of the interest rate. That is where we must look for solutions. We look at the system and have not fixed ourselves on the interest rate. This may have been the case in recent years, but we have fixed interest rates because it destroys the system with the current falling interest rates and Draghi's interventions. If we look at good pensions, we are in favour of a good pension system, even if it can better anticipate the future. There is no question of us wanting to nationalise the funds. In fact, we are approached by many people who fear that it is the underlying idea of the functioning of the current accounting rate. They fear that it will suddenly become apparent that the pension fund pots are completely full and that there will be another big grip in the pension pots. So, no, no nationalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u177	I did not raise the rate of calculation, but I would like to thank Mr Van Otterloo for this explanation. For a moment, I thought he was trying to distance himself from our beautiful system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u178	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u179	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u180	Mr. Chairman. Each ship used to have a crow's nest. In it was a sailor on the lookout. That sailor warned of pirates, windshots and cliffs. When he saw trouble approaching, he rushed to the pilots. I find this a striking picture for these General Financial Reviews, because on the ship of state the economic sun shines and a favourable economic wind blows. And everyone's in the best mood. But when I'm standing in the crow's nest and looking around me, I do see some risks and I would like to give them to the Minister and the Secretary of State this afternoon. Then I'll start with the state debt. Public debt will be around 47.7% of GDP next year. More than ten years ago, in 2007, the government debt was just over 43%. So we are not there yet, but we are taking substantial steps in the right direction, in the direction where the government can cope with new setbacks if the need is restored. In order to be able to look to the future with confidence, we need to strengthen our foundations and create reserves right now. For the record, I actually have to say end quote, because besides that this is a full SGP sound, this is literally from the text of Minister Hoekstra, yes, he already recognized it when he offered the briefcase on Prinsjesdag 2018. But that seems to me to be a very clear statement: it seems to me that the Minister has turned 180 degrees. The well-known salmon standard is being released and probably billions are being lent for an investment fund. The Minister of Finance admits that it is a very unorthodox step, a real change of course, in the Financial Daily. My question to the Minister is what is the reason for this change of course. Last year the Minister also discussed the situation in the Scandinavian and Baltic states, where the percentage of public debt is lower than in the Netherlands. My question to the Minister is whether he is still jealous of those Scandinavian and Baltic states. Next to me in the crow's nest it is a rather large crow's nest of that ship of state.. stand the Council of State and the CPB. We see public debt falling as a percentage of gross domestic product, but in absolute terms, the government debt will remain the same next year to increase by 5 billion by 2021. I would add that this percentage continues to fall; we agree on that. However, the Council of State strongly criticises the current fiscal policy and the CPB indicates that it is wise to create a buffer to deal with a future crisis. That was the view of the Minister last year. Despite all the positive reports that have come to us recently, I would nevertheless like to call for moderation, because public debt is not yet at pre-crisis level. There are many risks that threaten our economy. Let me mention a few: the Brexit, the trade war between China and the US, but also the problem of nitrogen, for example. How nice would it be if, in a future recession, we did not have to make the same cuts as before, but that we could just take an economic dip? I am therefore very curious to hear the answer to the question put by Mr Slootweg just now, namely whether we should not set a standard for EMU debt together. In this respect, therefore, this question has been raised twice. Then there's the billion-dollar fund. Last year we had the dividend tax and this year we have the billions fund that pays a lot of attention, with the important difference with the billions fund that almost everyone agrees it needs to be done. The wish lists are even submitted. And that does surprise me, because the content is still very vague so far. As a SGP, we will continue to monitor developments critically over the coming period, as an investment fund can have benefits, but there are also many problems. If we look at the past, then there are some examples of funds that do not always turn out to be positive in their entirety and throughout their lifetime. I refer to the Fund for Economic Structure Strengthening, from which the Betuwe line was paid, but where soon after its creation the objectives were shifted and important principles were abandoned from that fund, so that not only new investments but also existing investments were placed underneath it. At European level, I refer to the Juncker Fund, in which the European Court of Auditors made critical comments. Billions of funds that were rigged under fornication, but which did not deliver what we hoped for, at least not in total, because there were also good things in it. My question is whether the Minister will take the lessons of these funds into account in the further development of the perhaps-to-be billions fund. There is no other way. Of course, one would have expected me to consider the marginal pressure and the single earner. It would not be credible if the SGP did not consider this. The cabinet puts a lot of money into relief for households. That's good news. I sincerely hope that next year people will really feel this in their wallet. But when we look at the marginal pressure, we see that it's just a tissue for bleeding. Extra work still doesn't get much extra. However, I am pleased that the cabinet has understood this and at least lightened the tax burden. But, frankly, the measures we are now taking are not really measures that are putting us on the brink. It's a little bit. Let me just mention the gap between one and two earners. It hasn't gotten any less. In fact, Mr Bruins already gave it to Mr Bruins in purchasing power, he even got a little bigger in the coming year. I was just talking about a possible change of direction from the Minister. As far as the SGP is concerned, there needs to be a real change of course here. The Council of State also points this out in its response to the Millions Note. Last week, the study of the pain points in the marginal tax burden was finally brought out. That took about a year. The conclusion is that the peaks in marginal pressure are enormous, but they are hardly eliminated by the cabinet. Also, the options mentioned in the study will hardly close the gap between one and two earners. I am in favour of a real change of direction, namely a family-friendly tax policy. Take a family, a household as a basis for tax policy and base the tax rules on it. Then box three. The Secretary of State is going to review the property tax. I am pleased that the direction of the cabinet has shifted on this point. The proposal now before us has advantages, but also disadvantages for certain groups, for example for small investors and pensioners who have put some money aside for their old age. Another group I would like to focus on is SMEs. Alternative funding methods are very important for SMEs, for example crowdfunding. The proposal makes it much less attractive for investors to invest in SMEs. I do not feel sorry for those investors directly, but I do feel sorry for the SME entrepreneur who desperately needs the money to undertake and thus contributes to the economy. Investing for the future is important for the cabinet. See also the investment fund mentioned. There is a scheme for green investments, which stimulates green investments. My question to the State Secretary is whether he is prepared to make an exception for alternative forms of funding such as crowdfunding. Two more brief topics. First undermining. Two weeks ago, a motion was passed in the Chamber by CDA and VVD asking for action in the event of undermining. My question is whether this is only an organisational issue, or whether it involves money. Finally, a comment on defence. During the last APB, our Prime Minister again indicated that he would work towards the 2% expenditure standard. My question is whether the cabinet's desire to work towards it also has the attention of the Minister of Finance. I hope that the Minister and the Secretary of State will take on board the advice we have given, so that we can continue in the right direction for our country in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u181	Again a clear SGP sound. Mr Stoffer spoke, among other things, about SME crowdfunding. Does this mean that there will be a further increase in public finances?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u182	It's possible. In the proposal now before us, budgetary neutrality has been resolved. As far as we're concerned, it can go either way. I would first like to know whether the problem is being recognised, because this may make it more difficult for entrepreneurs. So let's see if that's recognized first. Secondly, if they do recognise that, because it may well be that I do not see it correctly, then we should look at it. But as far as I am concerned, it is primarily budgetaryly neutral, so we will also have to find solutions elsewhere. But first of all, I would like to ask the fundamental question: is this recognised and does the cabinet agree that we should change something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u183	Of course, Mr Stoffer is not asking this question for nothing. I think he wants more money to be made available from the government. It makes a glowing argument to be a good caretaker when it comes to the state treasury. It's gonna take cover. Then I would also like to hear what cover Mr Stoffer is thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u184	That's always very good. Of course, that question comes up more often. You need to see what size you're talking about. But if you ask what this cover could be, for example, I would say: child care allowance for higher incomes. That may not be popular, but something can really be found there as far as I am concerned. I mention the income-dependent combination discount. As far as we're concerned, it could go back. I understand that these are difficult things, which may not be equally popular with everyone, but if we want to go our way in a moment that will also cost money, then we need to make an assessment and then we need to find cover in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the purchasing power hangover. "We see and hear that the economy is improving, but we don't notice at all." That's the sentiment in the country. Three years after the end of the financial crisis, which was unnecessarily stretched by the PvdA and the VVD, 76% of the people in the country notice that it is going well economically but that they do not see or hear from it themselves. Only one in ten people think they'll get better next year. In the country people are pessimistic and they notice bitterly little of the usual good news show of the cabinet, the annoying laugh of Mark Rutte and the generous remonstrant smile of Wopke the Crown Prince. Of course, that's not without reason. Mark Rutte has increased the VAT on vegetables, cheese and eggs by 50%, so people are already taken at the cash register in the supermarket. In retrospect, scientists will conclude that this was a hysterical mistake, just like Rutte and Asscher recently admitted about the AOW increase. This cabinet has also set its own risk at the absurd amount of €385 and allowed care premiums to continue to rise, which means that people who are ill are caught and even avoid care. This Minister has allowed the energy bill to increase by hundreds of euros in recent years and rents to rise. If you think it is crazy, I ask the Minister that the people in the country no longer believe the fine talk about improving purchasing power. You can't cheat year in, year out and expect people to dance the polonaise! No wonder consumer confidence has fallen according to CBS. Of course, this cabinet with the policy of fraud is simply responsible for that. No wonder you're waking up with that purchasing power hangover. For 2017, the government promised 1% improvement in purchasing power. It became a poor 0.3%. For 2018, the cabinet promised 0.6. It was going to be 0.2. For 2019, the cabinet promises 1.5%. What's it gonna be? By 2020 it will be 2.1%. Mr. Chairman. This does not help the credibility of politics. Apart from the fact that the people in the country do not notice the growth, this cabinet saddles future generations with a financial shortage. The budget surplus we all have in cash is rapidly falling from 11 billion to 3.5 billion, or 0.2% of GDP. Although this is not quite the same; 0.2% is 1.6 billion. So I'm really curious: is it 3.4 billion or 1.6 billion? The Minister can answer that. Mr. Chairman. This minister is actually a lucky guy. He came in economically good times with low unemployment and budget surpluses. That sounds great to me: being the financial boss when the sun shines. But real leadership doesn't come up until it's tough, when it's raining and when it's blowing. That's coming, because from 2021 we're even going into the minus. In 2021, we are heading towards a deficit of 2.5 billion, by 2022 it will be 4 billion, by 2023 it will be 5 billion and by 2024 it will be 6 billion. That doesn't make DENK cheerful. Didn't this minister ever teach you to spend a euro until you earn it? The cabinet is distributing tax benefits to multinationals and wealthy people at the expense of future generations. It does not even comply with its own budgetary rules, which were included in the starting note of October 2017. The Council of State took that down in response to the Millions Note. Mr. Chairman. The future is uncertain. The world economy is in the grip of many uncertainties. The dramatic duo Trump and Johnson behave like unguided missiles and thereby threaten the world economy. One has emerged as a notorious fighter on the world trade scene and the other wants to drag the United Kingdom out of the EU. It is not excluded that we are moving towards a new period of low growth and low interest rates. This brings with it all kinds of new problems for our pensions and savers. In fact, I have heard too little about this. Perhaps there is a period of ten or fifteen years with low interest rates and low economic growth. What does that mean for our welfare state and our housing market? Have the models of the CPB been calculated on this basis? We understood in a hearing by Mr Knot that he could not have foreseen that interest rates would remain so low for so long. Is this what our pension system is designed to do? Is it wise to deal with the surplus and play for Saint Nicholas if the future is so uncertain? Mr. Chairman. For the long term, this minister is shielding with his so-called investment fund. He actually had to chuckle a little when that greedy Wiebes also claimed the idea of the fund. That wasn't entirely the case with this future CDA leader. While Wiebes has already stumbled into and out of Groningen, this minister has, of course, already begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u187	I have a question on Mr Azarkan's justified comment on low interest rates. This has a dramatic impact on our savings, but also on our pensions and so on. Mr Knot said he didn't foresee that. That is, of course, interesting, because for many years, for many years, it has been said in Eurocritical circles that the euro coin is by definition incompatible with the kind of savings system we have with pensions and so on, because you have to pay for the debts in southern Europe. Last week I therefore concluded that Klaas Knot simply does not understand the euro. That's shocking, but it's actually the only logical conclusion we can draw. He doesn't understand the euro. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u188	No, I don't agree with that. I've known Mr Klaas Knot since he was head of research at the Pension and Insurance Room. He was a direct colleague back then. He's an extremely skilled man. What struck me was that at that hearing, where I did not see you, it became clear that he himself did not foresee this. This has helped me to ask the question: are we now able to estimate on a multiannual basis what this does to our housing market? I was surprised that he didn't foresee this, but I find it very complicated to conclude that Mr Klaas Knot doesn't understand the euro, as far as anyone can understand it. I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u189	Can you then explain to me on the basis of what assumption someone could reasonably expect interest rates to rise again if you had to save the debt economies, the bankrupt economies of southern Europe, permanently with fake money, with low-priced money? So how are those interest rates going to rise? Who, who understands the euro, could believe that interest rates will rise again if you have to press money endlessly, to the length of years, to save Southern Europe forever? That is what the euro is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u190	I share Mr Baudet's concerns. They are very real concerns, because what we see, also in other places in the world, is that we get a situation where interest rates are really ten, twenty, thirty years at a very low level, sometimes negative, with high public debt, among other things in Japan. The question is how this is going to work out in Europe. I share the concern that it is very difficult for us to get back up again. In my view, this can only happen if inflation increases; that is the only way. I do see a trend, for example now in the United Kingdom, where the Finance Minister has announced that he may have reasons to raise interest rates. I found that very striking. I wonder what reasons he wants to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u191	Just a little longer. You say: Klaas Knot understands the euro. And at the same time, he didn't expect interest rates to be so low. That's interesting. How is it possible, in your view, that, first of all, you think someone understands the euro and its consequences and, secondly, that interest rates are going to rise again? What does he understand about the euro? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr Baudet's question was: Mr Knot does not understand the euro. I think I said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u193	That's right. He doesn't get the euro. He just doesn't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u194	I do not want to say that he understands the euro and all the consequences. I believe that the people responsible for the introduction of the euro could not have foreseen that this could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u195	That's demonstrable bullshit. Because when the euro was introduced, even before that, Romano Prodi and other people who were at the heart of that euro said: this is going to lead to a huge economic crisis, but that then makes it possible to move forward and build a European federal state. That was from the beginning of the strategy. If, through a currency union, you tie Northern Europe to bankrupt southern Europe, then you destroy the northern European economies and the southern European economies, and you can build a federal state on that disaster. That was the plan from the beginning. It's been extensively documented. And so you have two categories of proponents of the euro. You've got the fucking federalists and you've got people who don't understand. Which category does Klaas Knot belong to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u196	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u197	Mr. Chairman. I do not agree with Mr Baudet's line, namely that the euro has brought us nothing but misery and economic crisis. That's just not true at all. The euro has also brought a great deal of good. This means that, on balance, we have to look very closely at the current situation of low interest rates, which also has a lot of advantages... I assume that if Mr Baudet had a mortgage, he would also have benefited from it. So it's not all trouble and torment. I think we should be realistic, rather than saying right away: we all have to get out of that euro. I believe that is what your party wants; or one time it does, another time it doesn't. I don't know. Yesterday I was in Helsinki with Mr Otten, a former colleague, who had other ideas. I think it's good to look at this very nuanced. My plea is not that you should get rid of it, as far as possible, but that you should look very closely at how you, as a society, as the Netherlands, deal with this multi-annual low interest rate. What does that mean for our housing market? What does that mean for our economic situation? And what does that mean for our pensions? I'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u198	Last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u199	This is a tragedy for our pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u200	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u201	Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at that greedy Wiebes, who wanted to steal that idea a bit from Mr. Hoekstra. Anyway, he was still walking back and forth in Groningen and this minister had already started, because I have the impression that he has the first project. 700 million invested in KLM-Air France. I wonder what's really going on with that. He's a bit of a wait-and-see guy. I can't wait to see what's going on with these returns. And is that an example of how you could spend that money? But let's get back to what I still call the stick horse fund, because that's what it is. It's gonna relieve us of all the problems when I hear the colleagues. I hear D66 say "more public spending." The VVD refers to a higher employment rate, which is already at 80%. "More economic growth," said Mr. Bruins of the Christian Union. And maybe we can use it to solve the nitrogen problem. And perhaps also the entire party program of the PVV, because that is only one A4's after all. In this context, results from the past offer little hope. The Economic Structure Strengthening Fund, once suggested earlier, was originally intended for infrastructure between 1995 and 2010, but the objectives were later formulated so broadly that it was put into many non-profitable and vague projects. Does the Minister include these experiences and other experiences, including from the Juncker Fund? Mr. Chairman. It turns out that the auditors, whether the Court of Auditors or the CPB, are always many times stricter than the creators when it comes to success. And what about the democratic control of such a fund? We cannot have a situation where the minister comes to the Chamber and says: I am not about it; I have invested it externally; there is a board of Commissioners and they make the decisions together with the board. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of interest rates and the fund, because I find it striking. If, when carrying out projects, the difference in interest rates is the decisive argument, isn't it just a very weak business case? And does the Minister share the idea that low-interest fixation should not lead to blind staring at other consequences and factors? Mr. Chairman. It is also a pity that this minister creates greater differences in prosperity and a more unequal distribution of income in our country. This is mainly due to the accelerated introduction of the two-disk system. The 60% most earning Dutch people get 2.4% better and the 40% least earning Dutch people only 1.6%. A single person with minimum wage will receive a carte €168 per year, but a single person who earns a ton €840. That is antisocial and unfair! Why treat the people who have contributed to the crisis so harshly and wretchedly? And why are the companies so well rewarded? After all, there is a long-standing trend for more and more money to go to companies and less and less money to people. The labour income ratio has been below 75% for years and the disposable income has not risen since we were Prime Minister Rutte. And the consequences, Mr. Chairman? A million people in poverty, 400,000 children in poverty and a doubling of the number of homeless in ten years! And that despite high economic growth. On the other hand, we see companies being spared. The tax rate for large companies has been falling EU-wide for a long time, partly due to the introduction of that euro. This will lead to a race to the bottom, which will ultimately jeopardise the tax capacity and welfare state. Mr. Chairman. I come to the ECB policy and the disastrous consequences for pensions. According to Mr Knot, the ECB contributes 0.95% to low interest rates, which were already very low. And this again works hard on the so-called calculation rate, now about 1%. It means that pensions have been fixed for years and may even be reduced now. The only logical solution is to really let go of the calculation rate based on risk-free state bond rate. In any case, the term "calculation interest" is misleading. In fact, you should speak of "calculation return" and the expected return is really much higher than that 1%, partly because the government bonds are only part of those assets. Pensions are also in real estate, shares and other assets. Mr. Chairman. So we have to go to a different calculation efficiency. Although the Minister is not strictly speaking speaking about this, his colleague, Mr Koolmees, is doing so, I would like a reply from him. After all, the threatening pension reductions threaten the Dutch financial and economic stability. So it is also up to the Minister of Finance. I'd like a response. The way Dutch pension funds, with EUR 1,500 billion of assets, have to count artificially poor, is truly unique in the world. During the hearing, which I just recalled, I was also very touched by the director of Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn. He said, "How come I had 85 billion ten years ago and a coverage rate of 108% and now 225 billion and a coverage rate of 95%? The deposit per participant has doubled from €38,500 to almost €80,000." It looks a bit like some sort of Calvinistic self-sustainment and that can be disruptive and harmful. Even Dagobert Duck with his money stores was a piece of guller after all. But perhaps this cabinet wants to go down in history as the cabinet that killed the pensioners. After all, everyone writes their own history in their own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u202	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u203	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u204	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u205	We hear the government constantly about lower taxes, increasing purchasing power, progress, all kinds of optimistic promises, economic growth, prosperity and vistas. But in practice, many people are given the idea that this government is living in a sort of reversed world. How is it that the so-called education party, D66, abolishes the basic grant and introduces the loan system, which has left young people with tens of thousands of euros of debt for the rest of their lives? How is it that the so-called agricultural party, the CDA, has for decades been dominated by stifling Brussels and The Hague regulations, leaving the agricultural sector completely hollowed out and broken down and yesterday came to the Malieveld with thousands to demonstrate, while the CDA is in the government? How is it that the so-called car party, the VVD, quietly last night, in the hope that no one will notice, reached the 130 kilometer signs of the Dutch highways and is thus now in fact implementing GroenLinkspolicy on almost every level? The reality presented here in The Hague, the image sent out to the outside world, does not rhyme in any way with reality as people experience it. There's a reason for that. There is a clear reason for this, and I would like to talk about that. All these rising costs, the rising care premiums, the rising energy bill, the rising housing costs, come from somewhere, namely from the three major projects with which all the government parties, all the established parties in the Netherlands, have fully embraced: continued immigration, climate transition and European unification. Those three things will swallow up our entire economy, depressing our entire society from the agricultural sector to education, from our healthcare system to our housing. It seems that all these matters are out of sight of the political debate. We're talking percentage points. Here and there we may disagree on 10, 100 million, but where the money really flows away, the tens of billions, the hundreds of billions, nobody really disagrees on that, except the Forum for Democracy and perhaps some other parties outside the established system. The established parties CDA and VVD go along with this as much as GroenLinks. Take the climate alone. In the coming years, I read in the Millions Note, this cabinet will spend 3.7 billion on reducing climate change in energy supply. Rutte is magical with figures because there is another 10.7 billion on top of that; expenditure that is not included in the budget for next year but is already being done. In doing so, this cabinet plays, as it were, a legal hide-and-seek and allocates a total of 14.4 billion. In this way a little bit is hidden, a little bit hidden is hidden how much we spend on the pointless and expensive climate policy. In 2013, the energy agreement was adopted with which the large-scale construction of wind farms and solar panels began. That has already cost us 100 billion, as has been calculated by a number of independent researchers. Over the next six years, many new commitments will follow. Over the past year, a lot has been added to this, such as the Climate Agreement, of course, the Climate Act, and now again the nitrogen statement driven by climate activists. It's a deliberate attack on our way of life. Every time CDA and VVD bend along. Again and again it appears that parties campaigning on ideas about freedom are simply implementing the GroenLinks agenda. The VVD'er Remkes comes with a report on nitrogen emissions in which he says: lower the speed limit and go drastically reduce the livestock. And that while we can also simply choose to take over the German model, the German measurement methods! Because nitrogen bypasses are in no way an environmental problem. It is only an accounting problem that we could also solve by adapting our standards and methods of recording. Not only this absurd climate and environmental policy, this cult of alarmism, is in fact costing us all our prosperity. Because we are talking about hundreds of billions of dollars here: nitrogen, climate, energy agreement and you name it all. No, the massive immigration that goes on and on is costing us an incredible amount of money. In the coming year, the cabinet will spend EUR 134 million extra on this entire asylum chain. Within the current migration system it is necessary, the VVD says, to eliminate the huge backlogs. That is true of course, but this system is also rigged by the VVD. In 2015, the cabinet fell back and left the borders open. As a result, so many people have flowed into our country that extra money has to go. Just take the issue of Syrian status holders. A very large part of those people can just go back. It's about 100,000 people, maybe more. They occupy tens of thousands of homes; according to the Prime Minister, these were more than 70,000 homes. Jordan has sent 150,000 Syrians back. Syrians who are in Scandinavian countries even go on vacation in Syria. You can just go back. 95% of the territory is safe again. But the VVD refuses to actively send those people back, refuses to speed this up. Every week new groups of Syrians now get a permanent residence permit, because five years ago the first people came here. So it is not only a totally irrational asylum policy, it is also disastrous immigration policy. Asylum becomes immigration. This is again something on which one is not honest, on which one does not share the agenda openly with the people. It is said that we have to take people who need it and that we have to be there for them, not telling them that that means that those people can stay here with their families and with their whole family for a long time. That's gotta be different. This could be different, for example with the Australian immigration model. Boris Johnson talked about it this afternoon. If Britain executes the Brexit, then that country will and can set a good example and only let people in where it has something to do with it, just like the Forum for Democracy wants it to do in the Netherlands. And then there's the euro. We have to talk about this very briefly, because the dramatic euro coin will keep interest rates low for a period of days. Because the currency is too strong for the fragile economies of southern Europe, we need to keep up the pressure on cheap money. That will go on for years, just as long as Greeks and Italians become Germans. And since that will never happen, the euro will always have to be maintained with artificial money and our pension funds will therefore evaporate. Anyone who thinks, like Klaas Knot, that interest rates are going to rise again, who does not understand the euro. I repeat: it does not understand the euro. The festive mood that prevails here and which you still feel in the way in which the cabinet presents its plans is therefore based on an unwillingness to see all our money and all our resources eventually evaporated by three mega-projects: continued immigration, climate plans and European unification. These three plans come from a wrong human image, that of Francis Fukuyama of The End of History, that of "All Men became Brüder," that of "all cultures are going to disappear and we are going to go to one world state." That idea dominates these people's heads. They believe that integration and immigration problems are of a temporary nature. "It takes up to one generation!" It turns out that's not true. Research after research shows that the second, third and fourth generation immigrants from Muslim countries feel less connected than their ancestors. So there is no convergence, but divergence. The same is evident from the facts about Europe. It is not the case that these southern European economies are growing towards the northern European economies. On the contrary, there is also divergence there. And finally, there are all these climate plans and the idea that we are going to one world government, where we are all under the authority of a rational, green, sustainable, windmill-like policy. This is not true either, because the rest of the world is not involved. China is not participating, America is not participating, Turkey is not participating, Australia is not participating, Israel is not participating; there are so many big economies that are not participating in all this madness. In fact, we are allowing all our money to evaporate. This explains that purchasing power is not increasing, that house prices continue to rise, that care premiums continue to rise, that the energy bill continues to rise, that the job market does not break open. And that also explains that so many farmers, rightly, came to The Hague yesterday to protest against this policy. There's only one thing we can do to really change this. This is my last sentence. That one thing is to realize that the world view from which these three major projects arise is not right. We must stand up for the Netherlands again. The future is, I quote Donald Trump, not the globalists, but the patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u206	I have a question for Mr Baudet on those three points. Is that the whole story? Is Mr Baudet not forgetting a group, that of the economic elite, the shareholders, the people who are indeed not rooted in a country but the whole world in private aircraft? Shouldn't we take on that group, too? I believe that this group will make a much greater part of our prosperity disappear. By tackling this group too, that money ends up on the work floors here in the Netherlands and it does not flow away to Panama, the Cayman Islands and that kind of place on this world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u207	No, I don't think so. I think it is a real problem that we have open borders, so we cannot control the products sold on our markets. For example, we are now getting the controversial CETA trade agreement down the throat, which means that we no longer have any control over the meat and other nutrients that will be sold on our soil. But I don't see in itself a problem in the existence of rich people. I think that there are successful people, entrepreneurs, people who make money with their businesses, and that they are generally beneficial to a society, because they will also invest that money in new projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u208	Shouldn't those rich people be bound by borders, too? These limits are also open to capital. And the money that is made here in the Netherlands on Dutch work floors, for which Dutch workers work hard and with which they try to make a profit, does not flow back into the pockets of those workers, but it is brought across the ocean to Panama and the Cayman Islands. So should we not also impose limits on capital? Would it not have been in line with Mr Baudet's story if he had also said a few sentences about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u209	You could call it the Rhineland model. I agree that it is very important that we monitor this, in which people are encouraged to look at the longer term too, where family businesses enjoy a certain level of protection and where there is also concern from the State to preserve the manufacturing industry in your own country. If that is what Mr Alkaya is referring to, then I agree with him. But that follows, as it were, in the wake of the weather having control over your own boundaries, the weather having a normal currency, which is not based on air. It follows in the wake of the absence of immigration of an endless stream of cheap labour from third world countries. So I think that's a big part of it. I would like to add one more thing: tax cuts. I am convinced that people will get to work easier if you make it easier for people to work and you also lower the burden on employers, but we may differ fundamentally on the latter. If you do that, I think people will get to work easier and also make more money, and there will be faster growth. Then employers will dare to offer people a permanent contract again. This is often not the case now because employers know that they will face sickness benefits and all kinds of other redundancy allowances. They pose a risk that they simply cannot take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u210	If the cabinet does something that is in the right direction, does Mr Baudet support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u211	Sure. What I have not yet reported in my speech, but I would like to say now, is that we are very open to directing this cabinet in the right direction with concrete proposals. We have, of course, already tabled many concrete motions, but I will do so in the second term. Since the voting relationships in the First Chamber are now such that coalitions need to be sought, there is an opportunity here for the CDA or the VVD to show that they do not want to implement the agenda of PvdA and GroenLinks at every level, but also open to some more realistic alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u212	Does that also mean something for, for example, the Tax Plan? In the past, you have always argued that there should be a change there. I think you used to call that the "Rute Quotes." I think there's a dent in that now. Can we count on your support in this respect to reverse that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u213	It's a possibility. We may have to look at where the specific area is, because I think it is very dangerous to say that I support this, without having seen the precise proposals. But in principle, there is absolutely no question of talking to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u214	See, that sounds like a real politician.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u215	It's very scary...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u216	Don't you ever want to insult me like that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u217	... how quickly the language becomes the same as that of the party cartel. It is true, it covers a number of pages, but the cabinet has submitted a fairly compact Tax Plan. So I think there are these proposals. My question is: do you support this Tax Plan, which reduces the burden, something you have always argued for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u218	I repeat the answer I just gave, namely that I think it is a step in the right direction. I am in favour of it, but we have a series of conversations behind the scenes, but also in front of the scenes, in this gremium, but also in the First Chamber, and we will have to show exactly what we are going to give our support in the end, because of course we are going to try, also for our constituents and other people, to extend it to the maximum. Again, I'm not going to say "yes" and "the deal is closed," but the enthusiasm is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u219	One thing is always certain with Mr Baudet, namely that it is often a passionate argument, albeit somewhat confused. I've been able to find out the following in that. That is why he wants us to be so difficult to get out of this country. Why does he want it to be so difficult for us as Dutch to do business abroad? Why does he want to close the Netherlands down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u220	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u221	I believe that I have heard Mr Baudet say that we are going to decide who comes in, that we are going to decide that we are going to leave the EU and, as it were, we are going to isolate ourselves, to see from below a kind of dome how we are going to look at the rest of the world, while 70 cents of every euro of our income comes from abroad. We need that urgently. Mr Baudet wants to protect it completely and shut it down and isolate us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u222	No, I'm not. I don't want that at all, on the contrary. I think that the Netherlands can face a fantastic international future, just when we are freeing ourselves from a number of chains that are now clinging to us. The fact that the immigration situation as we now have links us with the world, as you seem to imply, is, of course, shit. You may very well be a country that trades with everyone, that also welcomes all kinds of businesses, and so on, but very carefully look who finally gives you a passport to become a citizen. Those two are completely separate. You can also very well have border controls, or just guard your own borders, and still trade a lot. A good example of this is our port in Rotterdam. That's where tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of containers come in every day from all over the world. These are all countries that are not in the Schengen area. Yet there is a huge flow. It goes incredibly smoothly because we have all kinds of customs systems to facilitate international trade. So the thought that you should have an open border zone in order to be able to trade is really demonstrable shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u223	This is exactly what I'm talking about. Suppose you can agree at European level that those containers that enter Rotterdam will be checked once, namely when entering the port. If they meet all the standards, that entrepreneur can head towards Germany, towards Greece, towards the whole of Europe with his merchandise. If he gets back control at every border, that entrepreneur's not gonna be okay either. So I think Mr Baudet is saying exactly what I want to say, namely: to agree, even in the field of medicines..................................................................................................................................................... I don't understand isolationism alone in the world. That's kind of an endeavor I don't understand, because it damages our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u224	No, that's not true. That's not how customs work. It just doesn't work that way. The moment a cargo arrives in Rotterdam destined for Germany from America, you can simply say: boys listen, this and these are the criteria, this and these are the appointments, stamp on and through. You don't have to be in the EU for that. Get an iPhone. Almost everyone has an iPhone. On the back of it is something like "designed in California, made in China"; such a text. We do not have a trade agreement with the United States, nor do we have a trade agreement with China. They are not in the EU either. Yet we all have that product. So you can trade excellently with each other without having open borders. It's a phantom, it's an illusion of yours that it should go together. It just isn't. This is also apparent when you look at the situation of all kinds of European countries that are not in the EU or other countries that we trade very much with: your beloved Morocco or Israel, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and so on. There are plenty of countries that are not in the EU but with which you exchange products all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u225	Finally... Well, I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u226	Thank you. I thought it was clear myself!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u227	Then you are the only one who can follow it, Mr President, because it is not clear at all. It's just standardizing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u228	I think you were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u229	No, this is bullshit. No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u230	We went to work at Schiphol. At some point there was a Chief Inspector of Customs or something. There were all these sour faces of MPs who said, and the Brexit, are you really afraid of that? The guy started laughing and said, "No, it's actually kind of fun. We just have a little country to go with it. We now have 198 nation states and 199 later. It's not really a problem. It's just another tick you have to tick." That's it. It's no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u231	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u232	I don't think running this country, what the government does, and checking what our government does, can happen with ticks. I also think seriously...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u233	No, it's about Customs. The question was about Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u234	I'm just asking a question about whether you should withdraw as a country on the square meter and then close all kinds of treaties. Mr Baudet says that we have no treaties at all with the United States. We have other treaties in the European context with the United States. We were able to negotiate them because we have a strong negotiating position. The fact that we can do that gives us a lot of prosperity. It will still be extremely difficult for those English to agree, partly because in America different standards sometimes apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u235	And what kind of treaties we would have with the United States is Mr Azarkan thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u236	I would like to stay on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u237	Yeah, what treaties? What treaties do we have with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u238	These are the General Financial Reviews. I think this point has been sufficiently changed, Mr. Azarkan. Then I'll go to Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u239	Well, can't I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u240	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u241	'Cause it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u242	No, it's okay. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u243	Mr Azarkan's proclamation is nothing more than bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u244	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, Mr. Azarkan can respond to that. It just went a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u245	What hundreds of trade agreements do we have with the United States?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u246	At the beginning, Mr Baudet gave a huge amount of money on all the money being thrown over the beam, but here is someone who has paid €9,000 for five plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u247	No, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u248	There's someone there, Mr. Chairman. So whether we can entrust it to Mr Baudet, that seems to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u249	That's not true at all. That's not true at all. Do you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u250	Let's have this debate a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u251	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u252	Let us just have this debate on today's subject. I think we were doing well and almost done. And then something goes wrong. What are you gonna say, Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u253	But let me just say that we are absolutely not against tolerance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u254	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u255	The conclusion of treaties is fine. It is the supranational aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u256	Yes, you made that clear. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u257	I have another question to ask Mr Baudet, because he just said in a minor sentence: we are also talking behind the scenes with the cabinet about supporting laws and the Tax Plan. Can I ask Mr Baudet to give his commitment there in public, in Parliament, and the conditions that must be met for the support? For that is what this debate is for. I have been very clear about what the PvdA demands of the cabinet. I actually think that this should also be done in parliament in a democracy by a party as a forum for democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u258	In my opinion, there has not been one negotiation in the entire history of humanity that has been successfully concluded after the negotiator has first publicly stated his maximum goals. That's impossible, it can't be. So I'm not gonna do that either. Then I wouldn't serve my constituents well. But we're doing our best, in front of the scenes and behind the scenes. We are open to discussions in all possible ways because we think that if the cabinet does not want to go with the left wing in every area, it might be able to do business with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u259	I understand that very well. I also understand very well that not everything can be made public. However, I am surprised that a party that wishes to mention democracy, called the Forum for Democracy, does not even want to question the substantive conditions and commitment or engage in a debate with us. Anyone in the population can look along like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u260	I think I made that very clear. We are opposed to the three major projects in which this cabinet has actually committed itself. That is the constant immigration. Suppose, for example, that we can force a commitment from the VVD to finally speed up the return of people who can return. Or think of organized crime. Last week, Theo Hiddema presented a very detailed proposal, which he called the 'rake and drag method'. Then you can really speed up tackling organised crime. When it comes to financial matters, you need to reduce that climate activist agenda a little bit to increase people's purchasing power. Those are a number of very concrete things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u261	Those are clear points. We are discussing the Tax Plan today; that is one of the main elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u262	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u263	So I do not see that Forum can be pushed for the Tax Plan if not all of these sustainability measures go off the table, or at least to a large extent. That is what Mr Baudet says, isn't it? I'm just trying to understand what your party's commitment is because we live in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u264	Well, I like that, because it gives me a chance to explain even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u265	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u266	There are other things, too. Whatever you might imagine is a firm commitment to a further up-and-down in the euro project. The Forum for Democracy was partly created by a movement which wanted a parliamentary inquiry into the origins of the introduction of the euro: did they know that this was about the biggest financial deception in Dutch history? The answer to that is probably yes. That's also something Rutte and others never wanted to admit. But the question is also: what can it cost us? Why don't we just put a rational amount of money on that? There are real possibilities there, too, I think. Then you're going to talk about, for example, whether we're willing to say: up to €100,000 or €150,000 savings, the government guarantees a positive interest rate. These are all examples we are talking about, which we expect to discuss in the near future, and which will enable us to serve the agenda of our constituents and our constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u267	It hasn't gotten much brighter for me. Since we are talking about precise legislation in both parliaments, the cabinet does not have a majority in the First Chamber and Forum there is also a player with whom the cabinet could go into business, I am simply curious what it means for pensioners, elderly or tenants, for example. I wonder what your terms are and whether you think the proposals are right or not. I didn't actually hear anything about that in your speech. I have heard about immigration and the cost of euros, but that is so far away from the laws that lie ahead that it is simply difficult to judge them. And I think your constituents are entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u268	Thank you. Let me give you another example. If the government breaks the nitrogen bypass by not lowering the maximum speed throughout the Netherlands even further, but by directly aligning our measurement methods with those in Germany, then the 18,000 construction projects that are still standing still, which completely closes the housing market, can be resumed. Then farmers who cannot now send their cows into the pasture can do so again. Then they can expand their stables. These are all very direct, concrete benefits that many people in the Netherlands will reap directly from. That's what's going on here. These are all things that Forum voor Democratic Week in, week in favour of, in the Lower House, in the Upper Chamber, in the provinces and in the European Parliament. I really appreciate your interest. Perhaps you would like to ask one more question, so that I can express even more views.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u269	No! No, I'm not. That's it. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u270	Okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u271	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-6.u272	Tomorrow, the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance will have the opportunity to answer all your questions.
