ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u1	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Lintmeijer once again for his vigilance with regard to the legislative proposal 35072. I'm gonna tell the report and editorial service to fix the text. Since this bill concerns the provision of financial assistance to members of the States-General and their survivors, this bill should be accepted by at least two thirds of the votes cast in accordance with Article 63 of the Constitution. It is therefore a question of the financial provisions of the members of the States-General and their families. This is covered by Article 63 of the Constitution, which must be accepted by two thirds of the votes cast. Thanks again. We've had something like this before, but this time it's escaped my attention. I don't know why, but it has brought you back the wonderful moment that you could improve me. That's nice, too. The next item is the debate on the second term of the initiative proposal by Mr Kuiken to introduce a duty of care to prevent the supply of goods and services produced by child labour, or the Child Labour Care Act (34506). I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs. Kuiken, to the First Chamber. I have already welcomed the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Now I would like to ask the two ladies to change seats for a moment, because since Mrs Kuik is the author of the legislative proposal, she must take up the middle seat. Are you okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u2	I call Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, after more than a year, but within the term of this parliamentary term, we will resume the debate on the proposal for an initiative law on child labour. In December 2017, we already spoke extensively during the first term. I will therefore repeat my input from the first period as little as possible and will focus mainly on the response of the initiator and the Minister. I would therefore like to thank them for their comprehensive reply. Mrs Kuik put consumer protection at the heart of this initiative proposal, while the real aim is to eradicate child labour. Despite living in a period of globalisation, this cannot be eliminated as long as countries where child labour is part of everyday life do not cooperate. Then I don't mean signing all kinds of treaties. It is easy to make good decoration with the number of signatures. There's a big difference between saying and doing. It is therefore a question of practice. One example: in India there is a ban on child labour in various industries, for example in the carpet industry. However, children are lured away from their parents with the story that they are being trained as carpet buttons. Then, hundreds of kilometres away, the children are deliberately forced to button carpets for 12 to 16 hours. So there are rules, but they are not enforced. Meanwhile, NGOs and trade unions have been aware of this for years. You might wonder what they've added. What have they actually done to improve the appalling conditions in which many children live? I therefore refer to results in practice, not on paper. The fact that NGOs and trade unions support this initiative makes perfect sense. It gives them a political instrument to punish companies operating in the Netherlands at random.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. Every sane person is opposed to child labour, but as the Minister pointed out rationally, the question is whether this bill can contribute to the effective handling of child labour. The Minister also points out that it is a global problem and occurs in global chains, which seriously hampers feasibility and enforcement. Surely it is not possible for this unsuitable task to be placed on the board of the companies? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. This proposal is just a paper tiger and gives us the illusion that we are creating a better world. However, it will not contribute to the elimination of child labour. The only thing that spins into it is the subsidised network of NGOs and trade unions, among others, who are given an instrument to roll out their own political agenda. The real solution lies with the countries concerned where child labour occurs. They are primarily responsible for the welfare of their own nationals and therefore for the welfare of their children. There lies the key to solving the problem of child labour. It will be clear that the PVV will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mrs Vlietstra would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u6	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Faber is talking about the 'fucking with companies'. I would like to get an explanation of this, because companies are obliged to comply with and implement the OECD guidelines. This law can be helpful in this respect. I will deal with this later. How does Mrs Faber believe that companies, other than by this law, can fulfil their obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u7	The PVV Group considers the starting point of the law to be incorrect. As I said, everyone is against child labour, but we are not going to make it this way, because in fact, the bill is a paper tiger. As you yourself say, countries are bound by the OECD directives, but they are not being enforced either. That doesn't work either. And then we're gonna put down a second paper tiger to maintain it. The problem lies with the countries themselves. That's where the governments are. Those governments should start by giving their own nationals a decent life. That's not gonna happen. I just gave the example of India. There are rules, but they are not enforced. Should we put this problem on the table of companies operating in the Netherlands, whereas organisations such as the OECD cannot actually do this? The rules are not being enforced. This is just not gonna work. We are only going to create additional administrative acts that cannot be enforced. It is an impossible task to check your entire production chain, because perhaps there is somewhere, in any instrument perhaps in a refrigerator or anywhere else a small screw that comes from Bangladesh, for example. We don't know. It's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u8	That is a very comprehensive answer, but it is not an answer to my question. On the basis of the OECD guidelines, governments and companies are required to implement these directives in their work. Mrs Faber sets out what others should do, especially those countries where child labour is at stake. However, Mrs Faber does not answer my question as to how companies should, in her view, fulfil their responsibilities in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u9	Through the chairman, Mrs Faber, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u10	Oh, sorry. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'll do it through the chairman. I am, of course, looking at the colleague, so it was an accident. You yourself state that there are already OECD directives, so there are already directives that need to be dealt with. That is not happening; that is point one. So there is no point in putting a second paper tiger next to it. Then you say: then these companies should start thinking about not having child labour in their chains or at least not being involved in child labour. That is what you are actually asking, but that is an unfeasible task, because in fact it is symptom control. It is a symptom campaign to put it down to businesses, while governments in those countries, for example India, do not enforce their own rules. It's just unbelievable. You have to start at the source. You have to start where child labour takes place; that is in those countries. That is what enforcement needs to be put in place, and that is where action needs to be taken. If that doesn't happen, we're all at the end of the chain here. You're chasing everything. It's just unbelievable. It's not workable. If you want to pass a law, it's gonna have to be enforceable, too. I understand, of course, that the PvdA colleague is here with the very best intentions. Of course, I'd like to give her that compliment, but it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mrs. Vlietstra, in conclusion, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u12	Yes, finally, very briefly. I understand from Mrs Faber's story that she thinks child labour is miserable, and I support her in this, but that she does not see any responsibility for Dutch companies to contribute to the solution of this, because she does not believe that it will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u13	I'd like to comment on this for a while. I find it a little faint to shift the responsibility from the origin, from the source, to the end of the chain. I don't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking on behalf of the SP and the Party for Animals, I begin by expressing my gratitude to both the petitioner and the minister for the first-term replies and the further information contained in the letters we have received from both of them in the past sixteen months. It is not very common for 16 months to pass between the first and second periods of a debate. The applicant and the minister therefore had a very long time to arrive at a productive joint follow-up by mutual agreement. Unfortunately, the time in that regard does not seem to have healed the wounds very much. Nevertheless, it is important to look forward. We shall therefore keep the obvious questions to ourselves. I will go through the debate again in the second half of the year on the main points, with a brief review of both the questions we have asked in the first half of the year and the new questions that have been raised. I'll start with the purpose of the bill. This bill aims to fulfil the obligation of the Dutch State to contribute to the eradication of child labour in the world. To contribute to this goal, the Netherlands, as explained in detail by the Minister in the first term, supports all possible international activities aimed at improving the situation in countries where child labour occurs. However, the applicant has convincingly argued that these efforts are not sufficient. I would also remind you of Roel Nieuwenkamp's sighing about the inertia of business. What the Netherlands can do and therefore has to do is enforce by law that companies that market goods and services in the Netherlands are doing everything reasonably possible to eliminate child labour in their production chains. In this context, in the first period, the question was raised as to whether consumer pressure would not be sufficient; we have just heard this question from Mrs Faber. The PwC report produced by the Minister with an international comparative study gives the answer to that question. In the case of the British Modern Slavery Act, which will certainly not be different in the Netherlands, most of the companies concerned do not deliver directly to consumers, but to other companies. There is therefore no direct pressure from the consumer for such companies. That is also why legislation is important. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we asked the petitioner why this bill only concerns child labour and not the directly related abuses of forced labour and slavery. The answer was that child labour is clearly defined, those other forms of abuse are not. Is that right? Forced labour and slavery are clearly defined in the aforementioned British Modern Slavery Act in a way that goes back, among other things, to the ILO Forced Labour Convention, dating from 1930. So the answer given doesn't convince. I'd like a response from the petitioner. Fortunately, in response to our question, the Minister has promised that, when the proposal is adopted, she will consider bringing slavery and forced labour under the rule of law after five years. Then I come to the issue of due care. The internationally widely accepted principle of due diligence, due diligence, is applicable in the present case and can be operated well, much better than an absolute result obligation would be. Businesses, I repeat, must once again state that they have made a reasonable effort to ensure that child labour does not appear in their production chains. Should complaints show that this is the case or that there is a reasonable presumption that this is the case, they should make a risk analysis and a credible plan of action. This is a minimalist but adequate approach, which cannot be argued in a spirit of thought that it places a heavy administrative burden on companies. It is a question of existing obligations. The bill does not impose any new substantive obligation. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the connection with improv agreements. We agree with those who argue that the present legislation is complementary to the efforts made under voluntary agreements in a number of sectors. When we look at the SER Progress Report on Imvo Agreements of July 2018 and in particular at the Covenant Sustainable Clothing and Textiles that is the most developed Covenant, we see that this Covenant covers only about 45% of the market. So it doesn't have full coverage for a long time. Nothing in the SER report can be read further as proof that a legal obligation on the ground in the field of child labour would be contrary to the approach of the covenants or would undermine them. PwC's study also confirms that the combination is effective: a due diligence obligation alone quickly becomes a stripped-out checkout exercise, a covenant is non-compulsory and does not cover all relevant companies. Mr. Chairman. On one point, the first period and the various letters from the initiator have not provided any clarity: who exactly needs to explain? In our view, the legislative proposal is clear: Article 4 states that "any company selling or supplying goods or services to Dutch end-users" is obliged to declare paragraph 1 and is obliged to send that statement to the supervisor. 2. Article 5 (4) which deals with the possibility for the Minister to adopt a joint plan of approach, I read in it: to approve a covenant, does not state that this article confers an exemption from the obligation under Article 4. The Minister also replied in the first period that collective schemes did not comply with the principle of individual liability under the law. In the first-term debate, the applicant did not reply clearly to any of these questions. Nevertheless, in its letters of 12 October 2018 and 9 April 2019, it states that Article 5.4 exempts companies participating in a covenant from the obligation set out in Article 4. Our groups would like clarification from the author and the minister on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the subject of surveillance. Around the supervisory board, the discussion focused on two questions in the first term: the choice of the supervisor and the feasibility of supervision. Firstly, the choice of the supervisor. The applicant indicated that at the request of the Lower House and the Cabinet, the appointment of the supervisor at AMvB was ultimately chosen. Can the Minister explain why the government made this choice at the time and why it seems to distance itself from it in the first term where it says it would have been obvious to settle this in the legislative proposal itself? There has also been a discussion on which bodies would be eligible. The applicant referred to the ACM. The ACM itself stated that it did not have the necessary expertise and capacity. This objection will be raised with each existing institution: the monitoring of compliance with this legislative proposal involves a new, non-existent task. But in the light of the chosen use of consumer protection in this bill, combined with the guiding principle of "appropriate care," these problems seem to be solved and the ACM does not seem to us to be a illogical choice. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the feasibility. Due diligence requires, in short, no more than a test in which the contacted company must demonstrate that it has done everything reasonably possible. There is no absolute proof of the absence of child labour throughout the production chain, which would also be virtually impossible. In that sense, therefore, there is only partial reversal of the burden of proof. Mr. Chairman. Our political groups are pleased to note that there seems to be a certain consensus on the content of "appropriate care" in the required AMvB. The applicant refers in its last letter to the six steps described by the OECD in this respect. The same six steps are central to the comparative research conducted by the Minister at PwC. As far as we are concerned, that is a good basis for further work. We would like to hear from the petitioner and the Minister whether they see it that way. Finally, a few questions specifically for the Minister. In the first term, the Minister has made no secret that she is not enthusiastic about the present legislative proposal. It also has the question of whether it will implement the law if adopted in this Chamber with a quack. However, at the same time, it has made some commitments, which together cannot mean anything other than that it will implement the law. Frankly, we would expect no different from a Democrat Party minister than that she would be loyal to a law passed by both Chambers of the States-General. Can the Minister explicitly confirm this for the report? With regard to the AMvBs this bill requires the following. On behalf of the predecessor of the current minister, the Cabinet informed this Chamber by letter of 17 July 2017 that, as far as the government is concerned, three points should and can be settled at AMvB: the first AMvB concerns the appointment of the supervisor (Article 1), the third AMvB in the legislative proposal concerns the requirements of the chain investigation (Article 5 (3)) and the fourth concerns the exemption of certain categories of companies (Article 6). The third AMvB mentioned in the bill on exceptions concerning the time of delivery of the requested declaration (Article 4 (3)) was considered unnecessary by the cabinet at the time. Will the Minister confirm that all this is still the position of the cabinet? In addition, the Minister confirmed in the first instance that all required AMvBs with heavy veils are offered to the Second and Upper Chambers. Mrs Lokin-Sassen initially suggested that the wording in the legislative proposal "beyond or under AMvB" should leave open the possibility of sub-delegatory. Mrs Lokin even jestfully suggested that the wording of further rules could be delegated to the Freedom Party. This does not seem to be a good idea for our groups. Is the Minister prepared to agree that the cabinet will waive the option of sub-delegatory when filling in the AMvBs? With regard to the fourth AMvB, on the exemption of certain categories of companies, I have a short question. Does the Minister agree with the SP and the Party for Animals that this AMvB should be filled in very reluctantly? The strength of this bill vis-à-vis the covenants is precisely that all companies are subject to the creation of a level playing field to be used in neo-liberal terms............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Therefore, in our view, exemption should be reserved for groups of companies which can reasonably be expected to have no child labour in their production chains. Given the limited length of the requested statement, we do not believe that the size of a company can be an exemption ground. Does the Minister agree with us? Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that the Minister, in answer to questions on our part, has promised in the first term that she will not make use of the option provided for in Article 12 (2) of the Royal Decree to repeal the law in the future. Perhaps in abundance: does this mean that the law can only be repealed by the two chambers by means of a repeal law? I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I came to the end of our second term. As always, our groups look forward with interest to the reply of the author and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Overbeek. I call Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. Almost one and a half years after the first deadline for the treatment of the initiative law on child labour, we are standing here for the second term. When I reread the Acts of the first term, I noticed that a number of colleagues referred to Samuel van Houten's Children's Law of 1874. That's not for nothing. It is one of the 50 windows in our national canon, as a sign of the importance we attach to our national fight against child labour. It is indeed an important law, but also a symbolic law. Van Houten's ambitious law was pretty much overturned by the Dutch House of Representatives. Not all forms of child labour were banned. There were also objections in the First Chamber at the time, also because some members called the law a sketch or incomplete. The real stick behind the door, a compulsory education, at that time the politicians thought that was far too much. That law didn't come into force until 1901. In the end, Van Houten's law was adopted by 29 votes to 7, mainly because the advocates considered it an important first step. Child labour did not immediately disappear from the Netherlands, but the law was a powerful signal. The well-being of children was recognised as a general interest. When the law did not work properly, it led to further steps: a large survey of abuses in workshops and factories, more social legislation and ultimately even such important compulsory education. All of them, I say with a wink to Mrs Kuik, are the work of social liberals. And indeed, this reference to the law of Van Houten does not come out of the blue, because Mrs Kuiken's initiative law is touching on a similar issue that we also have a high regard for in social liberalism today, where we rely on people's own strength and have a collective responsibility to ensure a sustainable and harmonious society, whether in their own country or across borders. This also applies, of course, to combating child labour. I also had to think about what Thorbecke said in the run-up to the Children's Law of Van Houten. I quote: 'what can be brought to bear by the power of the bourgeoisie, although it takes a little longer, the legislator must not want to do so'. Mr. Chairman. Now we can no longer ask Mr Van Houten. Nevertheless, I would be curious if he would say with the knowledge of the present that Thorbecke was right, that we should have just waited then and should not have voted on such a limited law. After all, I am still in conversation with Mr Van Houten, and the practice is unwieldy and just needs time before the bourgeoisie adapts to the desire to improve social conditions, so that you can make much more comprehensive legislation. Or would Van Houten now say: fortunately have I listened carefully to the critical noises from society that it was time to put in a law that would improve the lives of children? And as limited as that law was, it was a spark that turned out to be very important in the history of our social legislation. Mr. Chairman. Where are we now? Things have happened in the last year and a half. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister for a number of letters they have sent us. We do have a number of questions about this. On October 12, 2018 and April 9, 2019, we received two letters from the initiator Ms. Kuiken, in which she responds to questions from this Chamber about the relationship of the law to the import agreements for the sake of time: every time I say "imvo," I mean international corporate social responsibility about the implementation of a duty of care and about supervision. Can the initiator indicate how she thinks that the AMvBs mentioned in the law could provide more clarity about the relationship between the present law and the IMMV agreements, secondly, the details of the obligation of care and thirdly, the monitoring and enforcement? Why does she think it would be wise to wait for the evaluations of the agreements and then start with the AMvBs? What timetable does the initiator have in mind now that the target date of 1 January 2020 is no longer feasible under the law? According to the initiator, how can the social coalition of leading companies, trade unions and NGOs be involved? Does she see a role for herself in this? What lessons can be learned from the various foreign initiatives, such as in the UK the Modern Slavery Act, in France Duty of Vigilance Law, and in Germany the Partnership for Sustainable Textiles when it comes to legislation to combat child labour? What initiatives does the initiator see at the level of the European Commission and the European Parliament which point to European legislation to combat child labour, to which this duty of care would fit? Finally, my final question to the initiator of this part: would the initiator also indicate how she would see a workable complaint mechanism if this law were to be adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u18	Madam President, you're back! My group also has a few questions for the Minister. Have we understood from her first-term replies that she sees a heavy front for the AMvBs in both chambers of the States-General? We had also hoped that progress would have been made more quickly in the various evaluations. I am referring to the evaluation by the International Research and Policy Review Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Dutch Imvo policy with attention to the Imvo agreements. I am referring to the evaluation of the National Contact Point for the OECD guidelines. And then I'm referring to the midterm reviews and the evaluations by the SER of the imvo agreements. Would the Minister explain when she expects these various evaluations? In the meantime, however, in June 2018, a progress report by the ESC on the import agreements was published. My group reads in this report that the ten covenants were not reached in 2016, but that five out of ten covenants were concluded in the reporting period, namely for clothing and textiles, for banking, for plant protein, for sustainable forest management and for gold. In the meantime, agreements have also been concluded for food and insurance. According to this report, there are a lot of questions about the ownership of the parties, about the agreements and about the different roles of the government, NGOs, industry organisations, companies and trade unions. In addition, according to this report, there is still much to gain in the covenants by making good risk analyses and it is better to use the OECD guidelines and set priorities. On page 11 of the report there are a number of reasons why it did not go as fast as was hoped in 2014. I mention longer start-up phases, a need for greater awareness and operationalisation of the existing international CSR directives, the complexity of making and implementing agreements between a multitude of parties with different interests, sectors that see no added value in concluding a covenant and a role of the government that is perceived by a number of parties as varying, as not always as clear and/or not as stimulating. My group would like to hear an appreciation from the Minister of this progress report and the reasons, mentioned on page 11, for why the progress of concluding the import agreements is slower than hoped. My group would also welcome a response from the initiator, Mrs Kikken, to this report in relation to the lessons for her own initiative proposal. In addition, on 27 February 2019, this Chamber received from the Minister the research report Strategies for International Corporate Social Responsibility, Strategy for Responsible Business Conduct, carried out by PwC, from December 2018. We read that there is still a lot of international uncertainty about what is expected of companies in the field of reporting and chain sustainability. There are also questions about the effectiveness of the various instruments, because many have only recently started and there is no monitoring and/or evaluation study available. The recommendations are also interesting. Basically, clear guidelines are necessary for what due diligence means and how effectiveness of new policies can be made measurable by drawing up clear monitoring and evaluation plans. The cost-effectiveness of different options should also be further investigated. My group would like to hear from the Minister what lessons she considers important from this report for the Dutch imvo policy and the Ivo agreements, and whether there are lessons to be learned for the present initiative legislative proposal. One of the five conclusions of the report is the importance of a clear theory of change for instruments and strategies used for international corporate social responsibility. We would like to hear briefly from the initiator what theory of change is under her own initiative law. In addition, there is an open question from the first term for the Minister, who dealt with how she sees the signalling function of embassies, when it comes to the role of Dutch business and imvo, and how they can comply with the OECD guidelines. This would also be an important question for my group for the evaluations. Mr President, I will conclude. The question before us today, according to the D66 Group, is to what extent the initiative proposal will ensure that every national or international company selling to Dutch end-users has taken due care to prevent the creation of such goods and/or services using child labour. The D66 group is still struggling with that question that resembles the question Thorbecke had in the run-up to the Children's Law of Van Houten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u19	Mr. Ester? Or Mrs. Lokin? You're waiting, but I didn't see you at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u20	No, I was waiting for the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u21	That sounds very ominous. Very dramatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u22	Yeah, we're all waiting for the end, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u23	I have about one page left, so I don't know if the colleagues want to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u24	Mrs. Lokin is waiting for the end. Mr. Ester, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u25	When I hear Mrs. Stienen like that, I can almost predict the end. You ask a large number of questions. Some of them are very relevant, and I would like to admit that, but I would like to return to your interesting argument about covenants on the one hand and the legislative proposal on the other. I will deal with this later in my speech. I don't quite understand why we're facing each other. I think that these two can actually go hand in hand. That's what the imvo world itself says. We have received a letter from the imvo platform that says that agreements and legislative proposals should be drawn up together in particular. The bill lays down a general standard to which parties must comply and the covenants form a kind of professional self-organisation around this extremely important theme. I come to my question. Why are you putting those two, I might charge a little bit, a little bit opposite each other? And can you agree with the other one, which I think is much more interesting, that these two can go hand in hand in the fight against child labour, which you and I consider to be very important?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr Ester indeed has predictive value; I think that is good. However, I would ask him to allow me to conclude my speech first. Then he will find that we feel a dilemma in that. I do like to explain that in my own words. If Mr Ester has a question on that, I am happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u27	I'll take a look at Mr. Overbeek. You're waiting for the end, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u29	And Mrs. Vlietstra is also waiting for the end. It's a dramatic event here. Follow up on your speech, Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u30	I'd like to share the struggle of the D66 Group. We are struggling with the question that resembles the question Thorbecke had in the run-up to the Children's Law of Van Houten: what order do we choose in the important question of how, as a society, we can ensure that the goal of eliminating child labour worldwide is achieved? On the one hand, do we give time to the commitments made in recent years in the framework of the international CSR agreements and OECD directives and, on the other hand, do we advocate general legislation that goes beyond child labour when it comes to due diligence, if the forthcoming evaluations show that the IVO agreements are not delivering sufficient results soon enough? Or, on the other hand, are we pragmatically opting for a parallel trajectory where, in addition to the development of the import agreements, the present initiative law, however imperfect, can be seen as a powerful signal and a step in the right direction in the development of appropriate care in the production chain for all human rights and environmental aspects? By choosing the subject of "child labour," we choose a subject that is widely supported by society and by which we can explore and learn how to translate this legal duty of due diligence into effective legislation in all areas of international corporate social responsibility. Mr. Chairman. In order to make a real choice, my group awaits the answers of the initiator and the Minister with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Stienen, but you will still stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u32	Yes, because the end was waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u33	Mrs. Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Stienen on her vision of the past and the history she brings to mind, in particular the Children's Law of Van Houten and the quotes by Thorbecke. That is very nice and that could happen more often here in this Chamber. But I had one comment from her, and I would like to say a few words about it. She said that it was mainly the social liberals who brought about labour legislation. I should like to remind her that the first Christian cabinet created the first Labour Act, which for the first time appointed inspectors who could visit companies without the permission of the entrepreneurs. Something to remember is that in May 1919 the Labour Act, in which for the first time an eight-hour working day was laid down for the adult man, was again accepted by the Christian Cabinet, under the direction of Ruijs de Beerenbrouck. That has even been accompanied by the singing of the Wilhelmus and the eight-hour working-day melody. I may add as a fact that the eight-hour working day originally comes from the Rule of Benedict: eight hours of work, eight hours of prayer and eight hours of sleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u35	Mrs Lokin, I have to say that that clarifies all of us. If that's your end, then we can all enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u36	I winked, too. I am always pleased when a Roermondenaar, Ruijs de Beerenbrouck, is mentioned in the history of this Chamber. So I'm glad this was the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u37	Mrs. Vlietstra or Mr. Overbeek? Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u38	My question is in line with Mr Ester's, but I do not think it has yet been answered. I notice that Mrs Stienen, as in the first term, is asking a lot of questions to both the applicant and the minister, but that she is still not showing very much what the position of D66 is now. For example, she asked both of them to assess the results of the July 2018 progress report of the IMBO agreements. What I am so curious about right now is how D66 itself assesses this progress, whether it feels that sufficient results have been achieved, whether it is fast enough and whether we should not take measures to speed up the process, for example in the form of adopting this law. Perhaps Mrs Stienen might well be able to say, Mrs D66, but that would be too much honour for one member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u39	I'd love to. First of all, on the ESC report. That's a progress report. It is very explicit not an evaluation. I said in my speech that we hoped that we would see faster progress in the evaluations, but it is quite clear that there has been a delay. That is what we are looking forward to. In general, D66 is in favour of measures to combat human rights violations and violations of environmental and climate aspects worldwide. We want that voluntarily but not voluntarily, but we also see that this is precisely the dilemma that is going too slowly in certain areas. That is why I found the comparison with the discussion about the law of Van Houten very illustrative and the treatments on 30 June 1874 and 1 July 1874 almost topical. There is a real dilemma for us: is it going to be fast enough? Are we gonna get the results soon enough? We can't say yet. I think that the Minister has made it very clear in the first term that it is a little too early for that. We are now a year and a half away and I am therefore very curious to hear the Minister's appreciation of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u40	Before I put my question to Mrs Stienen, I would first like to make an observation: I find it interesting and amusing to see liberals and Christian Democrats here arguing about who was originally responsible for the first social legislation, when we all know that without a socialist workers' movement there would never have been social labour legislation. Now to the question to the Socialist Stienen, in fact, following on from what Mrs Vlietstra has already said. Almost a year and a half ago, we noticed that things were going very slowly. There were signs back then that companies were very reluctant to join the IMBO initiatives. It's much slower than the initiators wanted. I am surprised, however, that the question will be a little in vain, that after a year and a half the D66 Group has not yet reached the point that it also sees that it is going far too slowly and that a legal basis under the process is necessary to bring about an acceleration. How does Mrs Stienen view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u41	I am standing here because we are investigating the legality, feasibility and enforcement of this initiative law, for which I have a heartfelt heart. That warm heart may be clear, but at first I also said that we should look at it with a cool head. Hence my questions to the initiator about supervision, enforcement and feasibility. She has written to us a number of letters that have clarified how the initiative law relates to the Imvo agreements. However, we do not have a competition about who has contributed to social legislation, because I believe that we all consider it important in this House, especially when it comes to combating child labour. But my group's dilemma as to whether this law, with all its imperfections, is an important first step, can only be answered after we have heard the initiator in her response to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u42	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I call Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. Social Liberals, Christian Democrats, Socialists: everyone with a green and social heart is welcome at GroenLinks. At the end of 2017, a new beginning, the debate on the child labour initiative law came to an abrupt end after the Minister's advice. Following positive comments on the legislative proposal, she wondered, among other things, whether the problem of child labour could not be better addressed through the existing OECD guidelines and Ilva agreements with a broader effect than child labour alone. The forthcoming evaluations of some of those covenants became the coat rack to enforce this bill. More about that in a minute. The need to tackle and accelerate child labour remains unabated. The 2011 UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights indicate that companies have their own responsibility to respect human rights. These principles have also been incorporated into the OECD guidelines. Since then, the Netherlands has had a National Action Plan on Human Rights and Business and consequent Covenants for International Corporate Social Responsibility. In it, companies agree to take due care by identifying risks in their chain, such as the presence of child labour and other forms of exploitation. Identified risks should be avoided or addressed in a transparent manner. However, we do not have legislation that obliges companies to demonstrate that there is no child labour in their chain. That's not on its own. In the Netherlands-Covenantland, we often pollute about packaging, hospitality safety and health agreements, for example, than we impose strict legislation. This leads to agreements, which must be evaluated for their operation. As has been said, this legislation on child labour care has been retained, because the Minister was working on the process evaluation of the imvo policy. That evaluation would be there in 2018. We are already well in 2019 and those evaluations are not yet available and in that respect we are in fact no further than 19 December 2017. However, by letter of 9 April, the initiator replied again to pressing questions from the first period. For this and also for the previous answers, thank you both to the initiator and to the minister. But where are we now? My group supported and supported the principle of the law. Business' own efforts are fine and many companies are already taking up their responsibilities and participating in covenants. However, as long as there is no legal obligation to detect child labour, the consumer has no certainty that what he buys is free from child labour and partners can continue to make money somewhere far away in the chain with the use of children. Agreements can be useful, nothing wrong with them, but we also appeal to ourselves as co-legislators to take responsibility for tackling abuses. Without legal safeguards, the chance of freeriders remains, as the initiator rightly states in her letter. It is not for nothing that companies that are trying to tackle child labour are asking for a legal framework. Not only out of social awareness, but also because it creates a level playing field with the same rules for all market players. In principle, this avoids unfair competitive advantage for companies that do not make an effort in their chain and may continue to benefit from too cheap labour. With a legal basis, companies that fail to clarify or clarify what is happening in their production chains are lagging behind and can ultimately lose their place on the Dutch market. A legal guarantee is therefore desirable, but there are still questions about this specific legislative proposal, for example about the further development and enforcement. If the legislative proposal succeeds, there is still much to be done about how the law works and what steps companies need to take. My group supports a strong involvement of companies in the development process, but would like to keep an eye on the pulse. The initiator considers that there is still time to deal with implementation issues and prevention in close consultation with stakeholders in an AMvB. It intends, inter alia, to include the six-step plan from the OECD guidelines and to take into account the results of the evaluations of the IVO agreements. Does the Minister see that as well and is she prepared to take such a course with those concerned when the law is passed? Does it therefore wish to involve this Chamber in a similar way, by providing for a procedure to ensure that we keep an eye on it or that the concerns that exist in this Chamber are actually eliminated? In any case, will the Minister undertake to share with this Chamber the results of the evaluations, regardless of the possible passage of this law? My group would like to know, in the broader light of the Sustainable Development Goals and the Minister's Guiding Principles, what she is doing with the results of the imvo evaluations, so that this Chamber can also discuss them with her. My group therefore clearly sees this as broader than just tackling child labour; for example, Mr Overbeek pointed out in his first term to tackling forced labour and slavery. In the area of enforcement, as has been said, further work is also needed. In its letter of 9 April, the initiator also pointed out that these were based on the OECD guidelines. For example, cooperation with civil society organisations that can identify and test not only helps businesses further, but could also provide insight into whether companies are actually making efforts. Does the Minister also see such a role for civil society organisations? Or does the Minister, even after the entry into force of this law, consider signing a covenant sufficient and will there be no further enforcement? And how does that relate to the task of the supervisor to be appointed? My group then asks the Minister if there are any further insights as to who this supervisor might be? According to our observation, the ACM mentioned several times by the initiator is still not ready to jump. Please update the options for this. What timetable do the initiator and the minister now consider feasible in order to take all necessary steps if this law is to be adopted? It now seems impossible that we can achieve all this in eight months and reach the first possible date of entry into force on 1 January. What date would be feasible? I'd like a response. Finally. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance continues to believe that a European approach to child labour should prevail. In my first term, therefore, I asked the Minister whether she could see opportunities for initiatives at European level. She replied that a systematic discussion on a possible duty of care for businesses at EU level did not take place and was not foreseen, but that she wanted to do so. I would like to hear from the Minister what steps the cabinet has taken and been able to take over the last year and a half. My group shares the Minister's view that this should be done from the point of view of a level playing field, the complexity of international chains and the weight that the EU, stronger than national Member States, can bring to light in the chains. As always, Mr President, my group is looking forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u44	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I call Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiator and the Minister for their first-term replies, although they have been behind us for some time. I myself begin with some inconvenience to this second term. Discomfort, because the purpose of the bill is so beautiful. Actually, you only want one thing. In political terms, that is also the easiest way to go. And that is to support the bill, because of its noble ambitions. However, nobody is waiting for legislation that is full of good intentions, but which can give rise to a great deal of uncertainty in practice and does not produce convincing results. I would remind you of the tough criticism of the Council of State. I have paid due attention to this in the first period. It concerns the effectiveness of this bill, its feasibility, legal certainty, but also the many questions raised by this bill regarding monitoring and enforcement. And let's say that these are the prime points on which the First Chamber must be very strict and strict. I thought my contribution in the first term was pretty critical. However, this criticism pales in the light of the Minister's assessment of the content. I have rarely heard a minister so tightly expose the weaknesses of an initiative legislative proposal. The Minister considers the bill too early and too limited. Too early when it comes to the forthcoming process review of the imvo policy, including the covenants. The legislative proposal will be too limited because it focuses only on child labour and not on the other issues in the OECD directives, such as forced labour, environmental pollution, trade union freedom, climate and corruption. Does the initiator not fear, I would ask her, that her legislative proposal could possibly stand in the way of wider legislation which is necessary? For the Minister, too, it appears to be a big question whether this law can contribute to effectively tackling child labour, now that the primary thrust of the bill is consumer protection. Even so, the question remains whether this law effectively protects consumers from buying products produced by child labour. The International Labour Organisation has indicated that only 5% of child labour is in the formal export-related economic transactions. 95% of child labour is much deeper in value chains, making it much more difficult to trace. How much confidence can consumers derive from the corporate statement published on a website? I would add the lack of proper monitoring opportunities abroad. Then there's the feasibility. When has an entrepreneur made sufficient efforts in the field of due diligence? What actions are appropriate depends on business characteristics and characteristics of risks. Whether due care has been taken can remain a persistent subject of discussion. However, clear and unambiguous standards are indispensable for legal enforcement and certainly also criminalisation. It is precisely in this light that the Council of State stressed the legal uncertainty that this law could bring. I mentioned surveillance for a while. This problem was not tackled in the first period either. In the event of complaints, the supervisor shall review the statements submitted and the plan of approach of the company concerned. These are acts carried out in the Netherlands, but a complaint from NGOs or other interested parties will relate to possible abuses abroad. How should the supervisor reach his judgement without powers abroad? It is not surprising that no existing supervisor can see a role for himself here. There are also many questions about the scope of the law. I am leaving it now, but I am still asking the initiator about the risk that companies may or may not temporarily not participate in the agreements because of this bill. Would that not be a serious loss, as agreements on parts could have many advantages over this law, for example, allowing more scope for more ambitious agreements? The Minister argued that the bill would indirectly undermine the agreement approach. Isn't that a concern for the initiator? My final question to the initiator: the Minister has indicated in detail what the cabinet has been working on in the field of combating child labour. It doesn't sit back in this area. Is the initiator convinced that her bill has real added value in relation to the government's explained policy? I look forward very much to the answers to my questions, but I am also honest in saying that the SGP is critically pre-sorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u46	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u47	Thank you, Mr President. After a very long interval, we are debating the law on child labour in second term today. I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister for the first-term response. We have waited a long time to complete the treatment, expecting that the evaluation of the information agreements would now be completed, but that has not happened. And so we must continue the debate without this insight. In the meantime, however, we have received a letter from the initiator, with some information that is in line with the first-term response. I will briefly repeat the main questions and concerns raised by the VVD Group as expressed in the first term. I shall then briefly assess these points in the light of the aforementioned letter. I would like to reiterate in advance that the objective of the initiative law and the agreements for the VVD Group are not at all under discussion. The question is only how to best comply with this, so which instruments are most effective. The VVD had great difficulty with the legal subject for which the initiative law chooses, namely the consumer. It is a question of protecting consumers against products produced by child labour. It remains strange that the children concerned were not chosen as the subject of the law. They are primarily protective. This is also in line with the OECD guidelines. The VVD Group also found it odd that the bill should shift responsibility for implementation to individual entrepreneurs. They will be individually responsible for protecting the consumer from child labour. The individualisation and shift of supervision to the Empire compete with the involvement of the many umbrella organisations. These are urgently needed to be successful, especially where small businesses are concerned. It is, after all, a joint effort, also to gain a common understanding of the lack of transparency of markets. The VVD Group also pointed out that the individual declaration was too defensive and focused too much on good intentions and effort. The tightening up of this and a more detailed implementation of enforcement, including the safeguarding of enforcement, will be shifted to an AMvB, the content of which is not clear. Finally, the group pointed out that the ACM should be entrusted with enforcement, but that it should be limited to the Dutch territory. The verification of the statement and the subsequent efforts would not be possible without the existing private network. The VVD Group feared that both lines could come into a competitive position. So why not take the covenants as a starting point, strengthen these covenants and then do so with the help of the government? The response in time by the initiator and the minister had already not reassured the VVD group. In other words, the doubts about the meaning and feasibility of this legislative proposal were not removed. These concerns are not removed either by the letter from the initiator. It is stated once again that the law will remove the freerider problem. That is true in a formal sense, but still by individualising the responsibilities and efforts. In order to keep an eye on whole sectors, the parties that have responded to the OECD guidelines and become active through voluntary agreements are once again being addressed. This also applies to the enforcement by the ACM. It can only be maintained in the Netherlands by reviewing the declaration and efforts, but the latter should be collective in order to get a grip on the complex trade channels. This is acknowledged by the initiator, but by falling back on the private domain. The letter states that the letter I have just mentioned ends 'in a well thought-out mix of binding and voluntary measures'. This may be the result, but it could also result in competitive conditions of private initiatives and government enforcement. It can also frustrate the much broader scope of the Imvo agreements. It is also not reassuring that the ACM should take back the insight of the Contact Point and the subsequent circuit in order to be effective in enforcing it. Why not strengthen the capacity of the Contact Point and why not support a broad sectoral approach? The fact that this law is now defined as a framework law and that these questions can only be answered in concrete terms if the promised AMvBs are completed does not make the bill more attractive. Mr. Chairman. I've re-evaluated my concerns. They largely repeat the difficulty with this bill, which the VVD Group has already expressed in its first term. I assume that the initiator would like to address these issues in more concrete terms. I would also like to hear from the Minister how, in the meantime, after the rather harsh first-term criticism, she assesses the effectiveness, feasibility and enforcement of the bill. This is, of course, because she and her ministry will be charged with this. Again, in the first term, the Minister was quite critical. I'd like to hear if there's any movement in this. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group awaits the answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u48	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u49	Thank you, Mr President. In this second term, too, I am speaking on behalf of the Independent Senate Group. The first term of the debate on the proposal for an initiative for a law on child labour has been behind us for 16 months and has had a surprising end. Following the reply by the Minister, the applicant was asked to suspend the examination in the second period in order to obtain more time for its reply, taking into account the new information given by the Minister, the applicant said. The resumption of the debate has taken a long time. In view of the urgency of the subject, my group regrets it, but today it is time and we have the opportunity to conclude this important debate. Moreover, the decoupling of the first and second periods has the advantage of giving the Court the opportunity to obtain new information. I am thinking of the Progress report IMVO covenants July 2018 " Mrs Stienen also mentioned the PwC report and the annual report of the Covenant Sustainable Clothing and Textiles. I'll get back to you on that. Our two groups thank the applicant and the minister for their answers. We also thank the applicant for the two letters she has sent and which have contributed to answering our questions. We thank the Minister for sending the PwC report. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, our two groups expressed a positive attitude towards the legislative proposal. Child labour is a serious failure and a major social problem, and consumers are often not or poorly informed about the way in which their purchases have been produced and whether child labour has been used. Several examples were exchanged during the first period. Anything that can reasonably contribute directly or indirectly to the eradication of child labour should therefore be done in our view by governments, NGOs, civil society organisations and business. We feel supported by a large group of important companies and civil society organisations. In its letter of 12 October 2018, the proposer of the bill asked this Chamber to postpone the further examination until after the publication of the evaluation of the import agreements. The Chamber has agreed to this, but indicated that it would like to deal with the bill during this parliamentary term. That shouldn't be a problem. After all, the outcome of this evaluation was, according to the Minister's answer in her first term, expected at the end of 2018. Unfortunately, we have to note that the Minister has not kept her promise. Despite the pressure of this Chamber, the Minister has not been able to carry out the evaluations. In fact, it hasn't started yet. This is not going to happen until spring 2020. Our two groups are extremely disappointed and do not understand very well why the Minister did not even want to give an interim assessment of the effectiveness and functioning of the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u50	We, as D66, would have liked to have seen the evaluations before, but I wonder if Mrs Vlietstra knows how it works on the board of the Foreign Office that conducts those independent investigations. You're pretending... Mrs Vlietstra is now pretending that the Minister has that evaluation committee on the remote control, but it is not. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u51	To be honest, I don't think that's so interesting. The Minister said here in this Chamber in December 2017 that the evaluations would be available by the end of 2018. On that basis, as a committee and later as a Chamber, we decided to continue the examination after receiving those evaluations. I note that the Minister has not delivered, and I very much regret that. How that works in the Ministry, frankly, is not my responsibility. However, I note that the Minister has meanwhile commissioned PwC to provide information. I could have imagined that the Minister could have ensured that more information would still be available on the subject of the own import agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u52	Of course, Minister Kaag is fully in a position to respond to this later. But also for the report: in my view, I will look into it, too, as indicated in the letter that this delay is due to the fact that some of these agreements were later launched and that this led to the evaluation being launched later. I am very critical if progress is not fast enough, but I do think that we should leave that criticism where it is. I do not think it belongs to the Minister in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u53	That's what that letter says. I read that, too. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to look it up, because it's in there. I have been surprised that even on the basis of all the information available to the ESC, the Minister has not been able to provide us with an interim assessment of the state of play. I would like to hear from the Minister what her reaction is to that. Mr. Chairman. However, the Minister has sent us the results of a study carried out by PwC on strategies for international corporate social responsibility. This study shows which tools and strategies are being used in different countries to encourage companies to work on the OECD guidelines. Why didn't the Minister choose to include Dutch imvo policy in this investigation? That could at least have led to some preliminary conclusions for this debate. I'd like to hear an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The PwC report and progress report IMVO agreements July 2018 show some interesting conclusions. One of the conclusions of PwC's study is that imvo is seen as a reporting obligation rather than an actual action to ensure chain sustainability. The progress report shows that the number of covenants is steadily increasing. There are now seven, not all within the ESC. The Covenant Sustainable Clothing and Textiles is the furthest advanced of those seven. Progress reports also show that the number of connected companies is low, that it takes a great deal of effort to implement the concept of due diligence, and that it is still too early to say anything about the impact of the covenants and the extent to which they contribute to achieving the OECD objectives. Finally, the annual report of the Covenant on Sustainable Clothing and Textiles shows that although progress is being made, this is going slowly. Of the companies in this sector, 48% are members of the Covenant. This is slightly less than the 2018 target. 8% are fully in line with the commitments made, 14% are lagging behind and 78% are well on the way, while it is not clear what the latter means in concrete terms. Of the other agreements, our groups have not been able to find reports on the website of the ESC. Mr. Chairman. Despite all the appreciation that our political groups have for the efforts of the cooperating partners in the covenants, our conclusion on the basis of the foregoing is that it is too slow and that participation is too non-binding. Unlike the Minister, but also, for example, unlike the Association of Large Shops in Textiles, we therefore see the initiative legislative proposal as an opportunity to increase participation in the covenants, and thus as an opportunity to increase effectiveness. The law sets a standard consistent with the OECD guidelines and obliges entrepreneurs to apply due diligence. Participation in one of the covenants offers an excellent opportunity to make good use of the experience of colleagues, trade unions and NGOs. For example, the Covenant Sustainable Clothing and Textiles already has a pilot on child labour, which could well be part of it. Mr. Chairman. In the letter we received from the Association of Grotewinkelbedrijven in Textiles, the initiative legislative proposal and the import agreements are seen as exclusive matters for each other. Choose imvo agreements, is the appeal of this association, and do not support the bill. The groups of PvdA and OSF believe that this is a false contradiction. Of course, we are opting for improv agreements, but we see them as complementary to the legislative proposal. The MVO Platform, of which many members are very closely involved in the covenants, also outlines these opportunities. In the letter of 16 April, the MVO Platform writes strongly in favour of the legal obligation to do due diligence, in addition to the policy of the government based on voluntaryness. The CSR Platform believes that the progress of the covenants will benefit from a legal obligation that applies to all companies, the expertise of the CSR Platform is offered in the development of the AMvB, and the bill is seen as a very good first step in the right direction. The groups of PvdA and OSF would like to hear the reactions of the applicant and the minister to both the letter from the clothing and textiles industry, as well as those from the MVO Platform. Mr. Chairman. When listening to the Minister's answers, the PvdA and OSF groups insisted on saying "the better is the enemy of the good." The Minister gave the impression of finding the initiative legislative proposal too narrow, too small, too little substantial, and of proposing a broad approach, without explaining what this broad approach means in concrete terms and how it can achieve the objective of eliminating child labour worldwide by 2025. It also wanted to take into account the level playing field at European level and legislation in other European countries, to give greater scope to the IVO agreements, and to await the evaluation of the agreements and, on that basis, to decide whether legislation is necessary. Does the Minister attach more importance to a level playing field at European level than at national level, our groups wonder. It has been pointed out by the pioneers in their own country that the adoption of the initiative proposal restores the desired level playing field here. In its first term, the Minister spoke about parallel legislation and did not seem convinced of the complementarity of the bill and the covenants. What is the Minister's view of that? Does it share the view of not only the applicant, but also of many companies and the CSR Platform that the bill offers opportunities to strengthen the covenants by setting a legal standard in line with the OECD guidelines? I'd like to hear an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of comments on the implementation of the law. Part of it still needs to be settled at AMvB. I am referring to Article 1 (d), the appointment of the supervisor, Article 6, the designation of categories of companies exempted from the law, and Article 4 (3) the establishment of detailed rules on the content and form of the statement. My group considers it wise to settle the last two points at AMvB. In practice, it may prove necessary to make adjustments in these areas, which is easier to do by adapting an AMvB than by amending the law. The law will not enter into force until the AMvB has been adopted, and that AMvB will first be hung from both Chambers. This gives the Chamber every opportunity to make its views clear. Do our political groups understand that the law will not enter into force until the results of the evaluation of the agreements are known? If so, this can be used in the preparation of the AMvB. And these results can also be seen by the Chamber in the preliminary phase. I would like to hear a response from both the applicant and the minister. Mr. Chairman. The bill has not yet appointed a supervisor. That is regrettable, but is it a reason not to adopt the law now? For the political groups of the Labour Party and OSF in no way. In her last letter, the applicant made a clear statement of her views on this matter. Her preference is for the Authority Consumer & Markt, but at the request of the government and the House of Representatives this has been taken out of the original bill, and has been chosen that a choice is only made in the AMvB. Other options are conceivable, such as the OECD National Contact Point Guidelines, the SWW Inspection or NVWA. The objection of the ACM that it does not consider itself the designated party, given the lack of expertise, we take it seriously, but cannot be decisive in our view. If the government concludes that the ACM is the reasoned party, it will have to create the conditions to enable it to do so. Our groups would also like to hear the views of the Minister on the possible supervisor. In the first period, she could not say anything about it, but now that we are 16 months ahead, perhaps that is possible. Mr. Chairman. By the way, it is more common that a legislative proposal itself has not yet appointed the supervisor. I would like to draw attention to the recently adopted merchant protection bill, in which the complainant and the government indicated their willingness to settle this at AMvB. For this Chamber, that was no reason to reject that law. Mr. Chairman. The law does not enter into force until a time to be determined. The applicant has indicated that this will not be the case until 2020. At a time when the evaluation of import agreements will only take place in the same year, the law, as our political groups adopt, will come into force even later. Can the Minister state on what date she considers this to be real? In any case, there is a large transitional period. In the opinion of our groups, this period should be used to support companies in preparing for the law in order to convince them that joining the covenants can help implement due diligence. What efforts can our groups expect from the Minister in this respect? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The PvdA and OSF groups see this bill as an important and necessary step forward in the comprehensive approach to eradicate child labour. By setting a legal standard, companies are obliged to apply due diligence. We appreciate the efforts of the participants and the impo-conventors, and see the law as a necessary complement and strengthening of it. No strings attached. Of course, child labour is not eliminated by this bill alone, but combined with existing and possibly future policies, it can make a valuable contribution to this. The law does not require anything new, but is in line with what is already expected of companies on the basis of OECD guidelines and does something about it. Mr President, we look forward to the second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u54	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u55	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group regrets with others that almost one and a half years have passed before we can reopen the second period of plenary discussion of this initiative proposal. Child labour is a terrible social phenomenon and we must do everything we can to put an end to it. The OECD directives rightly oblige us to do so. We cannot afford a delay if we want to eliminate child labour by 2025, as the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations tell us. This sense of urgency does not tolerate dragging this bill forward. The delay that we agreed during the plenary session at the end of 2017 was also intended to await and weigh the findings of the evaluations of the improv agreements by the department. The Minister's letter of 22 February last shows that, despite this lengthy delay, the evaluations are not available for today's debate. My group considers this, in all openness, to be a difficult process to digest. Of course, the International Research and Policy Review Directorate (IOB) of its department is an independent inspection service, on which the minister has limited powers of expression. But at least the Minister could have asked the IOB Executive Board to share an interim report with us. Now we are empty-handed and this is hindering and burdening the debate we are having today. Can the Minister outline to my group why this route is not at the pace it needs and why there are no intermediate findings on the table? That wouldn't have been such a big effort, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u56	Since I went into the Acts of 1874, I think it is important that we have the historiography in order. At the end of the debate on 19 December 2017 I am paraphrasing Mrs Kuik asked to hold the second term. As a D66 group, we had asked the initiator to keep the law under review and to wait for the evaluations. As Mr Ester is now putting it, I think he has a lot to say to the Minister. However, the retention of the second term had really to do with Mrs Kuik's request. Our group then asked if she would write a letter on what exactly she heard new. That was the way things were going. I would advise you to review the Acts for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u57	I already have. Thank you for this. What matters is that these evaluations play an important role in the debate. This has also been demonstrated by all the plenary contributions we have heard this afternoon, including from Mrs Stienen herself. My point is that I would like to stress that it should not have been such a great effort on the part of the Minister to ensure that there is an interim report on the table, which we could then have discussed openly with each other. That is the only point I would like to make through the chairman to Mrs Stienen. Mr. Chairman. I would like to emphasise that the Christian Union Group has always believed that we should not play the Ivo agreements and this bill against each other. I mentioned this in my speech to Mrs Stienen. This is of no benefit to anyone, and certainly not to the victims of child labour. Both instruments can pull together and reinforce each other. The agreements regulate the voluntary contribution of companies on international corporate social responsibility and the initiative law increases the impact by introducing a legal standard on the obligation of care. It's one-one, not either-one. The MVO Platform also emphasizes this approach. Moreover, we understand the initiator, companies that commit themselves to the agreements comply with the duty of care as laid down in the legislative proposal. My group would like to hear from the Minister how she views this one and one perspective. Fortunately, we do have the international comparison by PwC of corporate social responsibility. That report came by a few times this afternoon. The conclusions are that policy instruments should be developed mainly in dialogue with industry and NGOs, that companies do not always have a clear picture of what the government expects them to do, that they often act more in line with the letter but less with the spirit of due diligence, and that there is limited monitoring and evaluation of results achieved. How does the initiativer and the Minister assess the present legislative proposal in the light of these conclusions? Mr. Chairman. The requested postponement was also intended to enable the initiator to consider and explain a number of key issues raised in the first stage of the discussion. She did so in two letters: from 12 October 2018 and from 9 April last. My group thanks her for this. In the last letter, the initiator states that at the moment I believe there are seven agreements concluded in the field of international corporate social responsibility. Has it been in contact with the institutions responsible for concluding these agreements and, if so, do these institutions consider that its own initiative proposal offers added value? For example, when it comes to creating a level playing field for companies by anchoring a general standard on combating child labour. The Chamber has been generous in giving extra time to the initiator to prepare this second term. My group would like to hear from her how she has used this time to make the legislative proposal stronger. Are we better off now than with the treatment in December 2017? What parts does that apply to? The differences between the 2018 and 2019 letters do not really show remarkable moving insights. Does the Commission agree with the Christian Union Group that the whole legislative process should have been sharper and more vigorous? How does the Minister view this trajectory and its own role in it? In addition to the relationship with the association agreements, the debate in the first period focused mainly on the nature and impact of the duty of care, the role of due care and the way in which supervision is regulated. I'm going to go into this briefly. The bill requires companies to make an effort: a statement in which the company indicates that there is no child labour in the production chain to the best of their knowledge. This obligation is based on the "comply or explain" principle and applies to the undertaking as such and not per product or service. The CSR risk checker can help with this. My group thinks that the story surrounding the statement is still somewhat open. Is it not better to offer a handy format with which companies indicate how they implement the principle of due diligence? Is this not also conducive to creating that level playing field and ensuring comparability? I ask this also in connection with the aforementioned PWC study in which companies indicate that it is not always clear what the government expects of them in terms of commitment to corporate social responsibility. This issue will undoubtedly be addressed in the dialogue foreseen with companies and other stakeholders on the drafting of the legislative proposal per AMvB. Can the initiator respond to that? I remember that in the first period she was somewhat reluctant on this point, but perhaps there is new insights. How does the Minister and initiator assess the outstretched hand of the MVO Platform to be helpful in the development of that AMvB? Is it true that this bill, all in all, does not require so much from companies, certainly not from companies that do not have international suppliers? It is actually a question of complying with a guiding standard through an effort obligation, not more, but not less? Does this mean, I would ask the initiator and the Minister, that the administrative burden of this obligation is, on balance, very small? What are the stakeholders' views on this? What also remains open is the plan of action that companies should develop if there is a suspicion of child labour in the production chain. Isn't it better to develop and offer a useful format here too, with which companies can get out of the way? Do we not offer concrete operational support in this way? Such a uniform format would also improve comparability. Can the initiator share with us her considerations on this issue? Companies, including international suppliers, which fail, can be blacklisted, in accordance with the principle of naming and shaming. This will only impress if this list becomes truly public knowledge and is actively brought to the attention of the general public, of Dutch consumers who want to take this information into account in their purchasing decisions. Who is responsible for this, as my group is asking? Is this, for example, the intended supervisor or are there other options conceivable? I would like to hear from the initiator what her thoughts are on this point. Mr. Chairman. Following the agreements and the commitment to do so, monitoring was the third topic remaining after the debate in the first period. The effectiveness of this bill to combat child labour depends on the enforcement of the obligations imposed. As the intended supervisor, the ACM was not keen to take on this task. Has there been any further contact between the initiator and the ACM on this monitoring issue during the "delay period" of the past 18 months? If so, what was the outcome? The final choice, according to the initiator in her last letter, was left to the government at the request of the Rutte II cabinet per AMvB. Does the Rutte III cabinet, I ask the Minister, share this view? Are there any other real supervisory options besides the ACM or is this about it? It seems to me that the number of candidates is low. Both the principle of due diligence and the choice for the supervisor will, as mentioned above, be regulated per AMvB. This means that we do not currently have a clear picture of two of the main pillars of the legislative proposal. Now that is not unique to this bill, but it is a bit of an obstacle to the progress of this debate. Mrs. Vlietstra also mentioned this. The promised heavy suspension procedure slightly softens this. I would like to ask the initiator and the Minister how, once again, in consultation with the stakeholders, we will ensure that the translation of the principle of due diligence into concrete measures remains close to the urgency of the legislative proposal and keeps course. Does my group read the initiator's letter that the date of entry into force of 1 January 2020 is flexible? A small warning seems to me to be needed here. After all, we have a very serious mission to eliminate child labour by 2025. I think it would be useful if the initiator could elaborate on its approach to the OECD guidelines as a guide to the development of due diligence in its term, with a response from the Minister. That would be very helpful for my group. This is also true of the ingredients of the plan of action to which offenders of the duty of care must comply. Mr President, I shall conclude. My group regrets the unnecessary length of this initiative proposal. The acute problem of child labour and our commitment to international agreements require decisive policies. We are talking about 150 million children engaged in forced labour, of which more than 70 million are in appalling circumstances. Half the children who work forced work are between 5 and 11 years old. These are appalling figures about a repulsive and unacceptable phenomenon. It is this sense of urgency that feeds the questions and final weighting of the Christian Union Group. It is not a free pass for bad legislation, but for strong policies in the fight against child labour, national and international. I look forward to the answers of the initiator and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group would like to begin by thanking the initiator and the Minister for answering our first-term questions. I would like to reiterate that we are opposed to child labour, but that does not necessarily mean that you should be in favour of this law. On 19 December 2017, the first deadline for the examination of this bill took place. That was almost a year and a half ago, so a short recapitulation of what has happened since then would not hurt me. Well, by letter dated 12 October 2018, almost a year later, the initiator further expressed her views. In her letter of 9 April 2019, she gave a further explanation and update of the most prominent parts of the proposal. I follow her on the subjects from both letters. First of all, the relationship between the legislative proposal and the import agreements. At present seven agreements have been concluded, in which 10 to 80 companies per covenant participate. On 17 April 2019 we received a letter from the Association of Grotewinkelbedrijven in Textile, in which she indicated that more than 90 individual companies are participating in the covenant concluded in 2016. That's almost half the turnover in that sector. My question to the initiator is: is it 80 or over 90 who are involved? Initiator expects this bill to increase the effectiveness of voluntary initiatives. The covenants become an interesting tool, she says, in carrying out proper care. Can the initiativer respond to the concern expressed by a number of companies in the past and, last but not least, by the letter of 17 April of the said Association of Retailers in Textiles, that this bill is not only not a support, but that it will frustrate cooperation within the association agreements? Although the proposal for an initiative aims to combat child labour, it does so via a very strange detour. It focuses on protecting consumers. Combating child labour is only an indirect objective. Contrary to this bill, the covenants focus directly on reducing not only child labour but human rights violations, including child labour. In other words, the agreements represent a broad approach and cooperation, while this legislative proposal has a narrow basis and, moreover, only an indirect approach. In the opinion of the said association, these two forms of approach collide and do not complement each other. I should like to hear from the initiator what she thinks of this argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u60	In addition to the letter sent by this association, I assume you also received the letter from the MVO Platform.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u61	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u62	At an earlier stage you already received the letter from 40 large Dutch companies. They say that they think it is important that the proposal be adopted, because that means strengthening the agreements. You haven't said anything about those two letters yet. Perhaps you will, but I am curious to know how you judge those views.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u63	With regard to those 40 companies, it is mainly a question of aligning the playing field. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u64	I await that, but I have not yet heard about the letter from the MVO Platform, which strongly advocates the adoption of this bill, which also offers to assist in the further development of the AMvB and which sees this as a strengthening of the covenants. I assume you read that letter, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u65	I read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u66	Please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u67	Yeah, I read that letter. To be honest, I am not convinced by that by definition, all the more so because the arguments put forward by the Association of Large Shops in Textiles, which is how you say that? It has the greatest cooperation from the companies covered by it, and has serious doubts about this. The second cup is due care. This concept needs to be further developed with or under AMvB, according to the initiator, so that in-depth consultation of business, civil society and public authorities can take place. It can also take into account the evaluation to be carried out in the autumn. That is all very well, of course, but the details of what can and can be expected from companies must be established in a thorough process with all those involved, according to the initiator. The draft law in question applies in principle to all companies, but provides for the possibility of excluding certain companies, particularly smaller ones, from their operation. However, this is contrary to the OECD guidelines. Moreover, this again undermines the voluntary approach, which rightly targets all companies that do international business in a specific sector, regardless of their size or turnover. Does the initiator consider it justified to exclude certain undertakings from consumer protection? If so, on what basis? Please give me a reasoned answer. The concept of due diligence is not defined in the legislative proposal and, in the opinion of my group, it will not be possible to define it in concrete terms in the AMvB either, since the initiativer's letter of 12 October 2018 states that it must be completed "within the context of the size and production costs of the company'. What does the initiator mean by that? Hasn't that understanding become so multi-interpretable and so vague that it becomes an empty shell? And isn't that directly undermining the level playing field? Who ultimately decides whether an undertaking has taken due care? The company itself? The supervisor? Based on what? Based on the law? Based on an AMvB? Based on the size and cost of production of a company? With this multi-interpretability along the back door, is the free-rider problem once again brought back, since due care for a multinational company is taken differently from the due care of a small self-employed person? Please give a reasoned response from the initiator. The third point is supervision. According to the initiator, the supervisor is the body that receives any complaints and assesses them. The enforcement tools for Dutch companies apply equally to foreign companies selling products or services on the Dutch market. There is no need to do research abroad. If the above is correct, is the whole bill not superfluous, since Dutch companies can already be held accountable in the event of human rights violations? See "Career obligations of Dutch companies regarding international corporate social responsibility" from December 2015 of the Utrecht Centre for Accountability and Liability Law. Is it not rather the case that between dream and act in this case there are no laws but practical objections to be able to maintain, such as problems of proof, high costs and, in particular, scarce resources in the Public Prosecutor's Office? Is the supervisor in the design of this bill not so much a supervisor as perhaps more of an ombudsman or woman, who, if there are complaints, investigates whether the company has complied with all the formal requirements, namely whether it has drawn up a statement? Don't we simply lack the means to have the supervisory authority carry out a substantive examination on the basis of this bill? Please give me a reasoned answer. And again, who decides whether a complaint is admissible or not? I come now to the issue of the evaluation of the imvo policy. The initiator recognizes the importance of this. I think I need to hurry. I will not go into this, because colleagues have asked enough questions about this. I have a question concerning the recommendations. In the opinion of the initiator, does the present legislative proposal satisfy the recommendations made and formulated in the aforementioned research? I'd like a motivated answer. Finally, I would like to put a few more questions to the Minister. It was also critical of the feasibility and enforcement of the legislative proposal in the first period. I'm giving a short quote because I don't have enough time. "Legislation for Dutch companies is at best an indirect way to tackle the problem, but the question remains whether this actually leads to less child labour. It is also questionable whether this law effectively protects consumers from buying products produced by child labour. This was also called into question by the Council of State." A second quote: "For the consumer, it is unclear why a company does not make a statement. Is that because he or she cannot declare appropriate care to be taken, or because the company only purchases from parties with a statement? This is also difficult for companies themselves. (...) In addition, the lack of monitoring opportunities abroad, which is a major problem, implies that an explanation does not guarantee that child labour does not occur in the production chain. For companies at the end of a value chain, it is very difficult to determine, let alone prevent, the creation of products or services using child labour." I'm going beyond that, too. As far as due care is concerned: "The law leaves room for further requirements at AMvB regarding the statement and the plans of approach for the company's due diligence. However, providing clarification will remain difficult, as risks in the chain are continuously in flux. They're changing. When has a company tried hard enough to detect a reasonable suspicion of child labour? That's still a question. On the subject of supervision, the Minister says: "These are acts that have been carried out in the Netherlands, but a complaint from NGOs or other interested parties will relate to alleged child labour in the chain, i.e. abroad. The supervisor has no powers abroad and cannot conduct an independent factual investigation there. Finally, Mr Schaap and Mrs Lokin, I would like to quote the Minister, 'once again, had it not been possible for the regulator to be appointed by law. The answer is yes. In connection with this, Mrs Lokin and Mr Overbeek have asked whether it is strange that the law can be repealed by royal decree. I'll go along with this too. I can therefore promise that I will not make use of this opportunity." It is good that the Minister makes this commitment, but it is not enough as far as our group is concerned from a constitutional point of view. It is, in fact, wrong under national law to repeal a law by Royal Decree. A law should be repealed by another law. From a state-law point of view, should this law not be changed for that reason alone? The Minister has also promised that both chambers of the States-General will have their backs on them, but that is not the case in most cases. It is therefore one-off on the basis of a commitment from the initiator or from the government. Shouldn't that veil always be laid down in the law itself, so that every time an AMvB is changed, it will be hung before the First and Second Chambers? If the initiator thinks that this should be done, is she prepared to come up with a novelle to that effect? I'm rounding up. The Minister concluded: "The cabinet appreciates the initiative proposal, which highlights the question of how best to tackle child labour outside Dutch jurisdiction and legislation, but the cabinet rightly has fundamental doubts about the effectiveness, feasibility and supervision of this proposal: does it actually contribute to tackling child labour on the one hand and protecting the Dutch consumer on the other? Whether this proposed law offers the right added value for this approach remains debatable." Does the Minister maintain all of its views, cited above, expressed in the first term? Please give a reasoned response from the Minister. I thank you for your attention and look forward to the answers of both the initiator and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the debate on this legislative initiative until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-eerstekamer-9.u69	I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. pending the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
