ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u1	I suggest we do three interruptions per person and the interruptions go in two. We're gonna listen to the minister. I understand she's got cubes. The most practical thing is that after the end of the cubes we interrupt. I'd like to hear it from the Minister. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as the administration is concerned, I should like to say how I intend to conduct the debate, if you agree. I will first give a general introduction. Then I'll say something about the slaughter of pregnant cows. Then comes the point of the mortality of young animals. Then there is the point of numbers of animals, following the count of Pigs in Emergency. After that, the block comes to the barn, then the transport and then some other questions that have been asked. So you know what to expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u3	Fine, we appreciate that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have a debate today that, as Mrs Ouwehand recalled, the Chamber wanted to have over a year ago. It is a debate that evokes strong emotions on both sides. On the one hand, you have people who are very concerned about the welfare of animals and are committed to putting them on the map. On the other hand, you have people who, in my view, also care about animals, but sometimes are put in a corner that they would not do enough, namely the farmers, those who keep the animals. They often feel that they are being cornered and that things are being said about them that are either wrong and wrong, or are being strongly turned on. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the way I look at animals. That question has been put to me by Mrs Ouwehand, among others. Animals are creatures to me. With creatures you have to deal with respect. You have to take good care of creatures. They are entrusted to us and we can enjoy it. I also believe that we can use them, also for our own benefit, which sounds so businesslike again, but I mean it in the broad sense of the word "b" but we certainly have to take care of them well and with respect. At the same time, I believe that we cannot attribute human qualities to animals. There's a difference between a human being and an animal. This is already reflected in the fact that we are allowed to use animals in our work and in our food supply. As far as I am concerned, the balance is in this. I notice in the discussions that wherever you stand, you always put a little more emphasis on one side or the other. In fact, I see that this is a debate that, if we do not pay attention, is increasingly polarizing, as if you are for or against animals. I have said before that I think polarization is becoming very sharp from time to time. It doesn't make much sense either, I think, if you want to think about where we end up. How do we look at animals together? What does that mean for animal welfare? It is also a debate that does not stand still. In my opinion, one of the members mentioned it: if you look at the way animal welfare was looked at 100 years ago, that is very different than today. And that's fine. It is a good thing that this debate evolves, that that debate is also being held and that that debate is always seen over time, with standards that have been accepted by society. It is a debate that does not stand still. That's fine. So let's not just say yes, but then this and then that. We're alive now. We now have ideas about how to deal with animals. Maybe the generations after us will say: hey, why did you find it then, because now we find this. All this also has to do with our relationship to animals, our technical possibilities and the place of food in our lives. The fact that we all have time to sit here and not be busy collecting food also means that we look at animals differently, for example. That's the way the discussion goes. It is therefore a good thing that we are having this debate today. Let me try to look a little over those lines. I believe that the debate on animal welfare has a role to play, as do the fact that there are people who constantly draw attention to it. The function to keep us sharp, the function that we also continue to ask ourselves how we actually deal with it and whether there are any improvements to be made. It is useful that there are people who are always talking about it and that attention is also being paid to animal welfare. I find it at least so useful that there are people working every day to take care of our food. These farmers are faced with all kinds of conflicting interests, and in them they must find a way, which is not always easy. I also hope that we can respect each other for the dilemmas that literally lie on the farmer's plate. We are discussing animal welfare, for example emissions, how to deal with circular agriculture. That farmer is going to have to deal with all of this and has to do it in such a way that he has a sandwich on it. That's not easy. If we are going to go off the sidelines and call out what farmers must do differently without taking into account that there is also a reality behind it, in which they have to solve all these dilemmas, then I find it too easy. We can't just ignore that. When we say that, we must all take account of that underlying reality. We need to think about the consequences for that individual farmer or farmer who is working on this. When it comes to animal welfare, it is also important to see that there are limits to it. As far as I am concerned, borders are crossed when there is a threat, when there is unlawful entry into farms, when farmers even feel attacked and threatened. Let me put it straight: I find it really unacceptable if that kind of situation arises in the Netherlands. We have various platforms in the Netherlands in which you can exchange thoughts with each other. One of those platforms is here, in the room. But we also have platforms in society where you can do that. If you don't agree with each other, you're gonna bring that up there. Then you start talking to each other, then you start looking for solutions, and not just pointing to each other and telling the other what to do better. You don't do that by threatening people, by breaking into companies, by making images of situations. If you have suspicions, there are formal ways to address that. If you have suspicions of wrongdoing, then you address them in that way and not through this kind of thing. I'm gonna distance myself from that. I do not think that can be justified in any way. So let me make my contribution to that conversation right away. I intend to organise various conversation tables in the country. They'll start something for the summer. At these tables, various parties can discuss their views on animal welfare in livestock farming. I also appeal to those who feel called to do so, to take part in it in particular, and to discuss with each other what is acceptable or not, and at the same time what might be the solutions, with respect for each other. I'll organize those tables across the country. We take the lead in this and take the lead in that organisation. I would like to reiterate my call to ensure that people participate so that we have that discussion there too. I have not mentioned one link in this whole process, and that is the consumer. When I look at a number of images and situations in the past few weeks, which I do not always say is good that there are. Everyone always knows exactly what else to do on a farm. The farmers know exactly how to act differently. But if we stand in front of the shelf and we have a choice between that more expensive piece of meat and that cheaper piece of meat, we will still be choosing that cheaper piece of meat. If you really care about how these animals are doing, you also make a responsible choice. We also have a number of discussions about, for example, the Better Life Label, about animal welfare hallmarks, and the question of how to move them forward; I will go into that in a moment. I also sometimes talk to the farmers who produce for that. They indicate that it is not so easy at all, because the demand for it is not even so extremely high. That question is increasing, indeed. I also think it is a very good initiative that this is happening. But when I see how many indignant reactions there are in the media on images that are broadcast versus the market share of this kind of meat, I think: I think there's still some crooked here and there. So if we want to improve animal welfare, that is a task for all of us: for the consumer, for the farmer, and for us here in Parliament to discuss what the frameworks we are proposing and how we can make them realistic, also in the light of a European market. But it is also a task for people who care about animal welfare and who are champions of it in order to do so in a way that we move forward with each other and not just get deeper into the trenches. That was my introduction, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u6	I'm just gonna take this opportunity to blow my nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u7	Those days Mrs. Ouwehand will be full. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you for the Minister's introduction. I think it is good that she says that the discussion is useful. I also welcome the fact that she says that threats and intimidation are not part of a democratic society. Then we're gonna lose each other. What the Minister is doing, as it has been doing for years, is this: system criticism, actually criticizing us here, the laws in which the farmers operate, is interpreted as putting farmers in the corner. The Minister is addressed here. It maintains this system. That needs to be clear first. Then the Minister pretends it's a disagreement. There's no disagreement. It has long been stated in the law that animals have intrinsic value, and it is fundamental to the right to information. She brought it up herself: consumers must act according to what they know. But what do consumers really know? Look, I can look up the numbers and see how many animals die in the nursery and die. I can find out that only once every two weeks a veterinarian arrives and that it is not the intention for animals to receive individual care, but that they are simply killed. Either they lie there for two weeks and then they die themselves, or they get sprayed to death. Of course, that kind of information does not reach consumers. So if the Minister thinks that people have the right to know where their food comes from and that this is also important for informed choices.... I hope she agrees with me...............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mrs. Ouwehand suggests I'm holding things back. I'm not aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u10	No, I'm saying that the right to information means "especially when you're going to point to the consumer," especially when you say, "yes," but it's up to you, because you just keep buying those things "you're going to have to get over it," a woman, a woman, a word. The minister always says she thinks it's important that people know where their food comes from. People have no idea that milk does not just come from the cow, but that a cow is inseminated every year and has to bear a calf that is taken away from her immediately. The same goes for goats. People are shocked when they suddenly look for that at Boer Woman. That is a sign that people do not see what everyday reality is; the reality that this minister approves with laws. There is a huge gap between what people are previewed and the daily reality for the animals. The painful things are kept away. I think the Minister has a job to do there. Does she agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u11	I've never really wanted to tell anyone that a cow is going to give milk after she's got a calf. I am sorry, but I think that a consumer should have some knowledge of this kind of thing himself. Ask on an average farm if you can come by and see what's going on and you're welcome. Here the consumer himself has a duty to investigate it himself if he or she wants to look into what is going on. At the same time, when consumers stand in front of the shelf where they can buy a piece of meat, they often have the choice between a very cheap piece of meat and a piece with a certain quality mark. Then the average consumer can really think that if he buys the cheaper piece of meat, he has different requirements than the more expensive piece of meat. In fact, with Better Life it's just on there and you can find out what requirements there are. Do not pretend that the consumer is a savage victim of his own situation. I think everyone is really capable of investigating what's going on. I have nothing to hide from the question of what the situation is. However, violations are also taking place. I also sometimes see images of animals being kicked and beaten and such. That's unacceptable. You can't do that. There are indeed acts that are permitted. We do that for certain reasons. Then perhaps Mrs Ouwehand should also outline the bigger picture that there are dillemas in this kind of situation. I was just talking about the free-range chickens. A lot of people want chickens to have a free run. However, if this happens, there is also a higher risk of animal diseases. If chickens walk outside, they can get wet. If they sit together after that, there could be a brewing. Those are all very difficult dilemmas. Then a choice must be made. Then what's better? That is the fundamental question. You can have different views on that. That's what you need to talk about. But to say now: there is one solution and if you choose it everything is fine and nothing is going on... Let me put it this way: then Mrs Ouwehand tells only part of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u13	Actually, I'd like to continue with this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u14	You want to deploy your second interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u15	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u16	It's possible. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u17	Then I'm gonna ask you this. The Minister believes that the rules currently in force are careful and that all interests have been weighed. The pigtails are allowed to be cut off. There is a piglets mortality of nearly 5.4 million. She thinks she can defend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u18	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u19	If so, why can't people see it? Then why doesn't the Ministry itself come up with footage of stables, so people can just see how sloppy chickens are? If you're behind this and if you think this is allowed in the Netherlands, why isn't it shown to people and we need to talk to activists who capture reality, who aren't on the box of eggs when you're standing in front of the shelf? This minister is not showing that reality either. She started a campaign video on YouTube about farmers in the Netherlands and what did she start with? With forest pigs. Forest pigs have ten pigs a year. The mortality rate is 2%. They can show their natural behavior, but they are hugely outnumbered compared to the usual livestock farming in the Netherlands. If the minister is behind it, why doesn't she start with a video of a common pigsty, with everything: the interventions and suffering? Why doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u20	That show is much wider than that. The suggestion that only forest pigs are shown is not correct. Mrs. Ouwehand says I'm fine with everything. I should like to comment briefly on the substantive issues. But Mrs Ouwehand has also read the animal welfare letter and seen what my ambitions are. She also saw that I want to change a few things. Let me mention just one thing: the ban on cutting beaks. We are going to introduce that now, with all the dilemmas of that, because animals are going to steal each other dead again. Those are the dilemmas we're dealing with. It also comes down to good farming. We need to look at the management of the farm. A number of Members said: let us stand side by side with the farmers. We have ideas about what we should and should not do in the field of animal welfare. Nor do I find it acceptable that the piglets' mortality rate is so high. I will come back to that in a moment, but I mentioned this earlier in my letter on animal welfare. But Mrs Ouwehand's suggestion that I am happy with everything, that I am not doing anything and that I am also giving a wrong idea of things, is really far from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u21	I'm starting to lose my respect, because that's not how I know the minister. She shouldn't twist the words I say. I say that there is a reality when it comes to animals in the Netherlands: at least 640 million a year. The Minister, who is ultimately responsible for animal welfare in the Netherlands, leaves the rules so broad that what can be seen on the images of Animal Rights is allowed, except kicking. When the images have come out, the Minister says "this is not representative" while it is about actions that she simply allows. If the NVWA is there, they don't throw ducks. The Minister immediately opts for calming down the conscience of the same consumer who has to act according to her. The minister doesn't come up with images of reality himself, and if those images do come out, she trivializes them and then pretends they're not representative, while 80% of what's on display is just allowed. This concerns the right to information in a democratic society, in which, according to this minister, citizens are responsible for animal welfare and have to make informed choices. If the Minister makes a press release on pig farming, she chooses a picture of pigs walking outside. That's okay, but there's only a few of them. When she stands behind her policy, she chooses the reality and the picture of what most animals in the Netherlands are dealing with: locked in dark stables, with cut tails and without daylight and fresh air. Almost 6 million people die every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u22	I have indicated that some of the actions shown on those images are permitted. That's what we agreed on here. There is a reason for this, because, as I just outlined, things are always on the opposite side. But that does not mean that we have to accept it; that is what I am trying to say to Mrs Ouwehand all the time. But you don't achieve that by shouting boo and bah, without thinking about what steps you need to take to improve the situation. That's what I'm working on. That indeed costs quite a lot of energy and is not always easy. I'd rather do that than just scream off the sidelines and say what's right and what's wrong. Instead, we are looking at what steps are realistic to take, keeping an eye on animal welfare and at the same time ensuring that the farmer can take those steps. That's my way. I have said from those images that they are not representative when it comes to kicking and hitting and that sort of thing. I have also indicated that a number of actions that can be seen there are just allowed. I haven't given any other presentations. But on the basis of a number of images shot at a number of companies saying that the whole sector is operating like this, I simply find it unacceptable. I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u23	I am actually starting my interruption in the same way as the previous speaker. I've heard the Minister say it's useful to hit the drum. I agree. You need to be able to start the debate with each other. You can agree and you can disagree. However, as far as the threat and intimidation are concerned, I have also heard the Minister say that it is unacceptable. At the same time, I hear the Minister say that she wants to go into the country and organise talks. I think it is good to have that debate with each other, but then my question is: is it really about animal welfare, or is it also about all kinds of things that are not representative, as has been pointed out in the debate on the interruption, and about banning livestock farming from the Netherlands? In what way and with what commitment will the Minister hold these round tables?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u24	I am, of course, first and foremost concerned with animal welfare, because that is the focus of the debate. But the debate on animal welfare is, in my view, also a broad debate on the dilemmas that come to mind. I just turned that in, too. How do you take these steps forward? What do you think is acceptable and what isn't? How do you look at animal welfare yourself? Those are glasses that make you look. So I am not going to frame the discussion in advance and say what one should and should not talk about. On the contrary, I think it would be a good idea to feed them widely. As far as I am concerned, there are no taboos that should not be discussed there. At the same time, the main effort is, of course, the debate on animal welfare. If we are going to bring in a lot of other things, then I think the one who moderates that is trying to bring it back to its core.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u25	The reason I am asking this question is that I think it is extremely important that it is about animal welfare, and also about animal health, because there are a lot of dilemmas there. Some things are positive for animal welfare, but they are negative again or have less good consequences for animal health. That's what I'm supposed to be talking about. But we also see extremism, threats and even death threats against livestock farmers to convince people to ban livestock farming from the Netherlands. Of course, that's what my story was about. I hope the Minister agrees with me that this can never be the basis of the talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u26	I guess we'll be done talking pretty soon. I'm going to talk to each other to find a way to deal with animal welfare, in which you have respect for each other's position, but you're looking for the possibilities that fit in with it. My commitment is not to make livestock farming disappear from the Netherlands. Absolutely not. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you to the Minister for the introduction. It's nice how she tries to connect on this sensitive theme as well. You mentioned the consumer. I have a question about the supermarkets, because a consumer buys what is on the shelves. If it's in there, it'll just be bought. In fact, if they're on sale, they'll be bought even more. Supermarkets always hide behind the argument that they only sell what the consumer wants, but that argument is pure bullshit; I'm just saying it so loudly. Supermarkets let us buy everything, things we don't even need. They can therefore, like no other, tempt consumers to make a good choice. Now I read in the newspaper this morning that Ahold has a new boss, Mrs Van Egmond, an ardent supporter of healthy food and also animal welfare. Fantastic. So I suggest, Minister, that you sit down at the table with her and both of you agree from the good heart to remove certain types of meat, where animal welfare is simply not guaranteed. 'Cause it's the only way we're gonna take steps. If we do not, consumers will continue to buy the cheapest piece of meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u28	I'm already talking to the supermarkets. We have been working on this for some time now, also to see what contribution they can make to this debate. So I would like to continue these conversations with them, and I will also inform your Chamber of what will come out of those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u29	But that is now not a voluntary conversation, because the dilemma of the difference between the consumer and the citizen is already very old. It is now a question of leadership on all the points in that chain, where leadership can also simply be shown in order to move to a different kind of animal farming, otherwise we will continue to have this debate. Then the tables you want to organize, with all due respect, become a ritual that only leads to a waste of time for animal welfare. It is now really important that supermarkets no longer hide behind the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u30	It is a bit of a pity that the impression is given that this table is meant to stop everything again. That is not the case at all. In the meantime, of course, we're just working on it. Let me remind you of the letter I sent on 4 October last on animal welfare. It contains all kinds of measures, including measures to increase animal welfare. I am trying to find a way with these discussion tables in order to be able to discuss animal welfare in a normal way in society. That has nothing to do with rituals or anything. If that is the suggestion that Mr De Groot is making, I would be a little disappointed. Of course, at the same time, we are also dealing with the chain parties, because that part of Mr De Groot's speech I did follow: you cannot simply regulate, ban or whatever things here, also because we are dealing with a European market in which a number of things can or cannot be done; I will deal with this later, for example with transport. But, of course, we are also looking, with the supermarkets, at how we can ensure that we can contribute to animal welfare. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u31	I've worked in the trade union movement for years. Then the confrontation was sometimes sought in actions, but it was in the knowledge that it had to be settled at the table. In that light, I appreciate the Minister's step, which says she also wants to talk to the chain parties. But my question to the Minister is what she is trying to achieve, because I very much agree with Mr De Groot that it is not just a consumer responsibility. We have a very well-informed retail trade and a very well-informed food industry. I can also see that steps are being taken. For example, FrieslandCampina rewards farmers for keeping animals differently. But what is the Minister's specific ambition and what is her concrete commitment to the talks she is going to have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u32	I cannot forbid the parties to place certain products that are simply allowed in this country on their shelf. Then we must ban the product, and we do not do so, because we are also dealing with certain agreements, including in the European context and even in the WTO context, about how we deal with such products. So I must also discuss these points: what is the view of, for example, the supermarkets themselves in this case? How do they see that they can promote certain things? I am not going to name names, but then I see that there are a number of supermarkets that really think seriously about how they can handle this, because they also feel a social responsibility. Then the conversation is about how I can help them and what they intend to do about it. Sometimes it's also about encouraging them to maybe take a tougher step than they thought at first. But it's complicated to say that I forbid them from putting certain projects in their supermarket that are not prohibited in themselves. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u33	My appeal to the Minister is that she sends a clear signal to both industry and the retail sector that they really need to jump now and that, if they don't jump, there will be a political climate in which they will be pushed. I understand from the Minister that she doesn't want to engage in these conversations without obligation. I also hope that she will put all her authority into forcing the chain to make other choices and take other steps, which will improve the level of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u34	This is a broader theme, which we will also discuss in the blocks: how do you ask and try to arrange certain things, when does the government do something and when does the chain do something? Allow me to go straight to the cubes, Mr President, to go into more detail. I think that is better than talking about it more generally. Then first I come to the block about the slaughter of pregnant cows. A number of Members have asked questions about this. What exactly am I going to do about that and how do I feel about that? Let me say in a nutshell that I find it undesirable that high-ranking cows should be slaughtered. I don't think I need more words for that. That is why I am now preparing a legislative amendment to prohibit the transport of animals to the slaughterhouse in the last third of the pregnancy. So there is a bill coming to your Chamber in which this will be dealt with. I probably still have to make that clear in Europe. The speed depends a little bit on that. My ambition is to get it to your Chamber as soon as possible, but I think it will be a little more towards the end of the year, because I probably still have to go around Europe. We are therefore already working internally to deal with this in a legislative amendment. I believe that I have already answered many questions from Mr De Groot, the PvdA and the Christian Union, all of which have been addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u35	I welcome this step from the cabinet. At the same time, my question was why the limit is six months. The last period of pregnancy I can understand, because they are highly pregnant cows, but why cows that are pregnant for four or five months still? Somehow it seems very random to me. Maybe there's a good reason, but at the core, it doesn't seem very ethical to bring pregnant cows to slaughter. What we can prevent, we can prevent. So my question is where the norm comes from. And is the Minister also prepared to continue the discussion with the sector on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u36	There are, of course, situations where slaughter may still be necessary, for example, where there are certain diseases or emergency slaughters have to take place. You don't quite avoid that. In the last third part of the pregnancy you have a calf that is already quite mature, not quite yet but to a large extent. Then we really have to arrange it so that it's about the transport. That is a bit of a technical effect, but that is what it actually sees. Of course, we shouldn't want to be slaughtered on the farm all of a sudden. This is the way we do it. And every border is arbitrary; I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. Except you're dealing with a fairly far-reaching state of pregnancy here. At least that's something I think we should stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u37	Does the Minister still see room to discuss this with the sector, in addition to the legislative amendment it is preparing, because each border has something arbitrary in it? Is there room for that conversation and would she like to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u38	I always talk to the sector, but I think it is important to get this settled first. Then I come to the mortality of young animals. Quite a few questions have been asked about that too. I find the high mortality among young animals worrying. I also indicated in my letter on animal welfare of 4 October, so even before all kinds of images and figures came out, that it is one of my priorities to reduce them. I started with my vision of animals. This fits in with respectful and careful handling of your animals. A farmer also has no interest in his animals dying at a young age. There's no profit or anything for anyone. I really think that we should take more steps in this regard. We have seen or heard that the ambition that was expressed a few years ago has not been achieved. In fact, the number has even gone up a bit, which is just not good. So we really need to add a tooth to this. I have heard a number of you make the analogy with how we dealt with the antibiotic problem at the time. That is an approach that I also envisage here. It is indeed as Mr Futselaar said. I have also been thinking about other ways, but it is almost impossible to determine how many animals come from one pitch. How are you gonna check that out? I can make a suggestion that has been settled, but in practice that does not have to change at all. I am now concerned that we are really going to deal with the practice. We also see that there are good examples. There are companies that are actually reducing the number of deaths among young animals. What I see in front of me is that, by analogy with the approach to antibiotics, we must now put all parties together to see what everyone's role is in order to reduce mortality among young animals. Then it's about vets. Then it's about certain heirs who have specific knowledge and skills. Of course it is about the pig farmers themselves. It is also about calf farming. It's just that as a government we also put the different sections together and then look: who is going to do what and in what way and what ambitions do we set? I myself am developing a benchmark at company level. Then a company gets insight: how do I actually do it with respect to my colleagues? Then you can get insight into this and then you can learn from each other. In this way you can also work on an improvement in view of the underlying reasons for the high mortality. Such a benchmark could become part of a chain quality system. So you can also use it wider to make sure something happens. Because I agree with this too: without a chain I can't do very much at this point. You really have to take that chain with you in this whole and we're just going to put the ambitions a little higher, really by analogy with the antibiotic approach. So to speak, first 20% and then you move on like this. The final blows will always be the more difficult ones, but that is clearly my commitment. I will inform your Chamber in spring in the state-of-the-art animal welfare letter about its progress. By the way, I will also include the progress of the plan of approach on well-being goats. We're also trying to make that happen. Mr De Groot asks what we are actually going to get for the next period. Before the summer, I would like to agree on specific objectives with the sector. This is also happening in the context of accelerating the sustainability of livestock farming. I have just said that I will inform you about the state of play in the spring and that I will set the benchmark for this. The focus is on goat farming, calf farming and pig farming. Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether piglets' mortality is on the European agenda. Actually, no. Hardly, I must say. I will check with other Member States whether they are pursuing policies on this issue. I will also discuss it internationally, for example with the leading group of the Vught Declaration. Then we can also take this wider if countries themselves need it or are working on it. Mrs Dik-Faber is concerned about farmers' willingness to share data, because they are sometimes taken out of context and presented. I'm also familiar with that signal. However, I think it is important that pig farming, and wider livestock farming, should feel the responsibility to do something about this. If we see that we do not save agreements that we make, then we really need to look for ways in which we can give hands and feet to them. Of course, we do respect the privacy of the data. So it's not like an outsider at the benchmark at individual level can just say: that's your company and that data is just out on the street. We have a responsibility to ensure that this is done properly. But it is very important that the sector itself sees that the figures are needed to move forward and learn from each other. I will, of course, continue to talk to the sector about how we can do that. Mr Futselaar asks if I am prepared to register mortality rates at farm level and intervene in the event of structural increases. Each company maintains a mortality rate. I'm going to support the sector in setting up a benchmark. This will enable farmers to compare their own figures with other livestock farms. The benchmark will also be part of the quality system. It may include the need to draw up a plan of action in excess of a certain mortality rate, for example in cooperation with a veterinarian. This is also included in the plan of approach bigvitality 2019-2020. Mr President, this was the block of mortality rates in young animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr Futselaar has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u40	The Minister's final sentences are one step closer to what I see before me, but there is still a problem. The Minister makes a comparison with antibiotics. I understand that, but we should not pretend that there are not all kinds of rules on antibiotics in livestock farming that are enforced, even for registration purposes. In addition, the NVWA comes to see whether it is respected, including with the veterinarians. So that's a whole package. So if you want to tackle piglets' mortality, you're really gonna have to do something from the government. I appreciate the conversation and the benchmark, but then I think there's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u41	I think I have just indicated that I want all these parties to seek this cooperation with each other. Indeed, it should not be the case that only the government or the farmer is doing what they are doing. We're gonna need the vets. We're gonna need the chains. We're gonna need certain heirs. Many parties have an interest in it, may also have an influence on it and can offer help. That is indeed an analogy with the antibiotics. It is not the case that we veterinary surgeons have been forced to do or not to do all kinds of things. The vet has a relationship of trust with the farmer and also talks with them: how do you deal with antibiotics, what choices do you have; maybe you can see possibilities here or there? If I go straight to the bans at this point, I don't know if that's much more effective. It is therefore my commitment to ensure that the noses of all those parties go in the same direction. I feel responsible for organizing that. But also in the case of antibiotics, we have not only gone very much to the bans and the bans. On the contrary. Maybe that's why it could go further than it was at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u42	But then I really have to point out the ten years of not even halting, but backwardness that we now have. The Minister says, if I start banging in one go. No, nothing happened. Or at least everything has happened, but nothing has been achieved. Now saying that you want to talk to everyone so everyone knows what their role is, I think it's really skinny, after ten very skinny years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u43	I'm gonna tell you what I'm gonna do to make it happen. The last ten years have been. We can find all kinds of things, but I believe there are still steps to be taken before we get into the law and bans. To outline the dilemma as Mr Futselaar did: how exactly are you going to do that with enforcement and how exactly are you going to shape it? If, for example, there is a high mortality rate of piglets, I think it is much stronger to say in the chain: hey, but that is really high compared to others, you have to do something about this because you are going to have problems with this. At the same time, it must be said: how can we help you? That seems to me to be a much more effective way than to say: a pitch should not have more than so many animals. Because I can't control that. When the NVWA comes along, those young piglets really are with another animal. Then can I check which pig are those piglets? No. It is much stronger if you recognize with each other the need to bring this back and work on it together than to say from above: we have to do this this way and then it's going to be all right. I'm afraid this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mrs Ouwehand's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u45	I wonder whether the Minister is now aware that she is only feeding the social resistance. The government says: this is unacceptable, the number has to be reduced and the sector will have ten years. The government even invests subsidies to help investigate how to reduce piglets' mortality. I would also like to know how much money that has been. If the agreement has not been reached after ten years, until then it has been said that it is unacceptable that it is not being achieved, but apparently it is true that if you do not meet your commitments in the livestock sector, it means 'unacceptable': if you have not made it, we will help you a little bit further and we will not intervene. I want to know how much money was put into that plan. I want to know whether the Minister remembers that she also said: it is unacceptable if the agreement is not reached. I want the Minister to acknowledge that this makes people think right: this sector is not working and the government is protecting the sector and putting money into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u46	I'm looking for a way I'm really gonna get parties into this. I may be able to take a number of measures that are quite enjoyable optically, but that probably doesn't improve the practice very much. Are you there? No. I can say anything about the last ten years, but I'm on the clock for now. My aim is to ensure that all parties see much more importance in reducing the mortality of young animals. I am also convinced that this can be done, because I also see some good examples, but these good examples must continue to work in other companies. That's not always easy. I'm already doing a profit warning in that respect, but I'm not gonna stand by it. It's not like I'm saying, come on, guys, it's not gonna work, okay? No, this is a motivation for me to drag it even harder to make sure everyone gets on with it. Then it is also about chains and, for example, the Vion that I am going to address on their responsibility to the farmers to ensure that those animals do not die. Then I also ask the vets to use their knowledge and skills and also to use their relationship of trust, which is not always easy. I've spoken to vets, including the antibiotics. That's not always easy, and yet they do it. That's the power when you all go the same way and when you all know what to do. And I'm gonna keep dragging that around. Mrs Ouwehand may hold me to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u47	But that wasn't the question. The question was how much money was put into that bigvitality plan. That is to subsidise an investigation into how to use the existing system, without restricting the sector, by saying: "You shouldn't breed on those ridiculously high pitches, you shouldn't make a sow pregnant two or three times a year and you shouldn't try to breed on extra teats either. You just stick to the animal's natural behavior and the animal's natural adaptability." None of that, but subsidising how you can bring down the numbers a little within the existing system. If, after ten years, the agreements have not been reached, then this minister says the same thing as Minister Verburg, who started with this. He said: there are also companies where it is less; let's look at that. It's been ten years. Does the Minister recognize that this is exactly what the PBL is talking about? You can choose to stick to the existing system, but then you also have to accept the consequences and that is growing social resistance. And you don't have to cry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u48	For the third time, I don't want to hear from the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. In the second period, I will indicate the amount that went to the Bigvitality Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u50	I was just thinking about what the Minister just told me, at least that she wanted to come up with legislation on the transport of animals of high quality. I had to look. I know there's case law somewhere; I found it. In 2014, the judge ruled that no transport with animals should take place after 90% of the pregnancy. It's about practice now. Is this legislation not going to lead to farmers not being able to bring back their high-ranking animals to the stables from their pastures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u51	No, it's about the shipment to the slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u52	So it's about animal transport. It is very explicitly included in such a way that the case law that is now being strengthened, but that farmers who have high-ranking animals can simply bring them back to their stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u53	It is very explicit about the transport of high-quality animals to the slaughterhouse. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the animal numbers and the findings of Pigs in Need in this respect. I also read or heard about the week figures of Pigs in Emergency and what calculations they had. If those findings of Pigs in Emergency are correct, then that's really not right. But first, I need to understand the figures. I also attach great importance to the fact that we will first carry out the analyses of the figures with Pigs in Emergency, RVO and NVWA. So I'm just going to have an insight into that first, and then I'm going to inform your Chamber as soon as possible. I have already asked a question about this to see how we can gain more insight into this. I've also been in contact with the province of North Brabant. I can give your Chamber more insight into this in March. I think it would be a good idea, if we have more insight into these figures, to talk about them and then to indicate what I think of them. I find it complicated to say "this is true" or "this is not true" of something I have no idea about. I'd like to look into that myself first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u54	I would like to congratulate the Minister for taking this so seriously, because I also hear from a lot of farmers that they are simply saying: it is not possible. Good thing the Minister doesn't say that and she's just gonna get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u55	I also reply to Mr Moorlag's question as to whether I am prepared to take action, first of all I am going to find out what the situation is; then I am going to see what these figures give rise to. I'm going to inform you about my findings and what might result from them. Mr Futselaar asked whether we should not move to an I&R, as we do with cattle. The registration of individual pigs entails a high administrative burden. There are a lot more pigs than cattle in our country, so the numbers in transport and movement are also larger. But I'm not going to anticipate the facts. I'm just gonna run an analysis first. If necessary, I'm going to think about the improvement proposals that need to be made. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about the numbers of animals. I'll join the barn fires.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u56	Was it about the numbers of animals or was it about the pigs? I asked another question about the numbers of animals that have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u57	Yeah, it's in the other block. I'd like to catch him now, too, if that's what you want? I can see that that is not the case, so I'll take the question with me in the other block. I've been talking about pigs in distress and registration. Then the barn fires, Mr. Chairman. The suffering of a barn fire is great. This is particularly true of animals, but do not underestimate what it does for the farmers concerned, but also for the aid workers and residents. Although every fire there is too much, the chances of a fire is not extremely high. I think we should bring that realism into it too. Every year, that's 1 in 1,000. Again, every fire is too much, but that's just a little bit to put it in perspective. We must always look for ways in which we can reduce the risk of a fire, because prevention is, of course, the very best, also in order to prevent the number of animals killed from increasing. In recent times, we have looked closely at the causes, so that we can also use the right measures. The main causes, as far as we could find out, are problems with electricity and human action, think of welding work. Fire prevention measures are preferable. This concerns, for example, electrification, information and heating protection of electric motors. In the case of anti-damage measures, fire and smoke detection in the technical area is beneficial. The sector has already taken action and launched it. Some of the measures have already been included as a requirement in the quality systems. This obviously involves costs for the farmer, but these measures are nevertheless being taken. We're still looking for the causes. Agreements have been made with the security regions on the registration of barn fires. The fire department is also developing an improved national system for this purpose. A number of measures have been examined by the Economic Institute for Construction. Some require quite high investments, where you always have to weigh what you do and what you don't do. The important thing is that we take the right measures together, use the available resources as best we can and also use the right instruments. It's the art of putting that together properly. I am pleased to admit that farmers, the sector, emergency services, insurers and animal protection, which I really want to mention here, are working really hard to make the right choices here and to take the right steps. Both Mr De Groot and Mrs Dik-Faber have asked what measures I choose to find the right mix I have just described. I sent a letter on January 14 about the stakes on barn fires. It looked at the causes and measures so that the right measures could be taken. What has already been picked up is periodic electrification, protection of electric motors, fire and smoke detection, as well as information. I heard people talk a little harsh about it, but given that human action is often the main cause of fires, you cannot give enough information as far as I am concerned. Furthermore, in the context of the sustainability of pig farming, a source-oriented approach to reduce harmful emissions is being used. In July 2018, the follow-up action plan Fire-Safe Mostly was drawn up by the animal sectors, the Association of Insurance Companies, the Fire Department, the Animal Protection Department, together with the Ministry of Health and My Ministry. The programme shall run until 2022. I will also keep you informed of developments every year, following a question from Mrs Dik-Faber. Mr Geurts asks what rapid detection measures are possible? Then what are the costs? The EIB's report examines the detection of fire and smoke in the technical area. As investment costs per farm, an amount of €1,000 is mentioned for dairy cows up to €3,800 for poultry. For 2019, efforts are being made to include requirements for heat detection systems in the technical area at the poultry and pig farms. In this context, Mr Geurts asks: can we not see which rapid detection systems are actually possible? He also asks if I could support the farmers in this. I have just indicated that the issue of detection systems has already been taken up by the poultry and pig sectors in order to include this in the quality systems. But I am also open to the request to see how I can support this. In all honesty, I have no money for it on my budget. I just want to think about it creatively. I can't promise yet, but I can see the need for it. So I need to get free ideas first. If the Chamber sees any ideas or possibilities for that, then I am recommended to do so. Mr Futselaar asks: should you now oblige the sector to follow information and link it to periodic electrification? In carrying out the electric inspection, farmers are already well aware of the risks. Approval shall be granted only if the defects found have actually been resolved by the holder. So it's not like you get a report and they say good luck and goodbye. That also means you have to do something with it. In the past year it has already been shown that the information meetings on barn fires are well attended and that the subject also lives with animal farmers. This confirms the image that the animal farmers are also very unhappy with barn fires; let there be no ambiguity about that. Mrs Lodder asked what I did on the points in the coalition agreement. I think I have just indicated what measures we have taken to deal more effectively with the fires.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u58	The Minister has indeed addressed the measures she would like to take in detail, but one measure has not mentioned them, which has been explicitly included in the government agreement. That's pest control in and around the stables. We all know that gnawing mice and rats at power cables can cause problems. We agreed that farmers would be given more opportunities to fight this themselves. So I would like the Minister's promise that she will take a serious look at this and inform the Chamber about it within a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u59	The literal text is not, in my view, that farmers themselves should be given more opportunities to do rodent control. As Mrs Lodders knows, there are, of course, substances whose use in rodents is not permitted. What is of great importance is that of course we also do this in electric tests... can be seen how rodent-resistant the electric lines are, to prevent them from being gnawed or whatever. So that's where those cases are being taken. If it is expected that farmers will be able to use all kinds of means to combat these animals again, then I must refer Mrs Lodders to my colleague from IenW, who is talking about the admission of funds for rodent control, including the farmyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u60	I think that's a little too easy. We have included in the government agreement under the Animal Welfare paragraph, in which we have also explicitly talked about barn fires, in order to give entrepreneurs more room to take measures themselves, of course within existing laws and regulations. But the possibilities are now limited and I think it is very important that we ensure that there are really more opportunities, especially in existing stables where the measures, as the Minister has just indicated, are not yet working. After all, you cannot change all cabling overnight. So I would like to ask the Minister once again, once again, to speak about the fires and what measures we are taking to deal with them with her colleague from IenW and to inform the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u61	I will pass on Mrs Lodder's request to my colleague from IenW and ask her to give her vision of what is possible and impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u62	I'm living on the assumption that the minister is done with the stealing block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u64	Because I mentioned two more specific measures. We got those reports. A trade-off is then made. I understand that the ministers at existing stables do not choose sprinklers, which you may wonder if they do not make it worse. You can replace the whole isolation of existing stables, but that's very expensive. I understand that, too. But, for example, making the technical space fire resistant is an option. It is ultimately rejected because of the costs, as well as lightning rods at certainly the largest stables, while we know that lightning strikes do play a role. Then I wonder why the dime fell that way and not the other way. These seem to me to be appropriate measures. They cost money, but not the huge amounts that some other measures cost, and they can still make a profit. So the Minister won't reconsider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u65	The EIB's report assesses the cost of implementing a number of measures. To give a picture: roof insulation in the compartmentation of the technical space in existing stables would cost an individual entrepreneur about €115,000 once. That is a considerable amount for an individual entrepreneur. In the case of lightning rods, an amount is also mentioned. I don't have what that was for a while, but that was pretty high, too. I'd like to see if those lightning rods are really so precious, but just to give you a picture: the cause is very rarely lightning strikes. Then the balance, as I just said, is where you use the resources effectively. What possibilities do you have for that? Then what is an effective package? I have looked very strongly for this, also on the basis of the EIB's insights. Then you weigh things against each other, that's right. I would like to take a look at those lightning rods, whether they are indeed so precious, but I want to address precisely what is most at risk and I have just outlined them. We're gonna do something about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u66	I have been told by a LTO representative that lightning rods are worth around €5,000, but I do not have those figures, so let the Minister look it up. As far as the technical area is concerned, it is absolutely true that it costs more money, and then it really does vary from one stable to another, because cattle are more complicated than et cetera. But it is also by far where the most profit can be made, because we know that the vast majority of the fires from which we can determine where they come have started in that technical space. So yes, there are costs, but the profits are also much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u67	I have indicated that we have just been looking for a way to tackle the greatest risks. That's what he often does in human acts. If we create a little more awareness for that, there is a lot to overcome, in combination with the electric inspection, the vulnerability of the electricity in a company. Those are the biggest risks, and that's what we're working on right now. I think €115,000 for an individual entrepreneur is quite a big amount. Those measures have indeed already been included in the new Building Decision, but I will start with the things that I think are the most profitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u68	I would like to further refine Mr Futselaar's plea. They are substantial investments, but could there not be anything organized, for example that insurers apply a discount if fire prevention is brought to a higher level or that the chain says that they are willing to pay a little more for those who have something better for each other, whether temporarily or not, for the product? You could put everything together. If everyone contributes to this, could you take a bigger step towards removing this animal suffering, which is also detrimental to the image of the sector? A lot of money is spent on marketing, but this is very damaging to the image of the sector. My request to the Minister is to see if she can stretch the elastic a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u69	I have just indicated that I am going to see what the costs of lightning rods, for example, are, once again, stressing that most fires are not caused by lightning. I just mentioned the amount of €115,000 per individual entrepreneur. That is, for example, EUR 16 million for pig farming. If you want to get all that from the insurers, the chain parties and the like... I can look at that, but I do not think it is a very real idea that they are going to pay that amount at all. I would particularly like to look at measures that are effective where most risks are, and that is really with human action combined with that electricity. That is what we are trying to do, because I believe that there is the most profit to be made. In the new Building Decision, all these things have already been included by default, but do not underestimate the high cost of implementing that roof insulation and compartmentalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u70	I would just like to say one thing to the Minister: where there is good will, there is a detour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u71	Yes. I've indicated how we deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u72	I would gradually like to move towards the second term, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u73	Yes. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I still have the question about the transport. Mrs Dik-Faber asks how the talks in Europe are going about transport issues. I am committed in Europe to improving and tightening up the transport regulation. I do so together with a number of like-minded countries, such as Denmark and Germany. As the Chamber knows, the current Commission has indicated that it will not be able to amend the transport regulation during this parliamentary term. It focuses on better implementation and compliance with the current rules, so I do not expect much more from this Commission. We look forward to the new Commission, which can do something about this. In fact, we are already working on improving the transport regulation on the agenda of the new Commission. As I indicated in my letter on animal welfare, we are committed to a maximum transport time of eight hours for animals for slaughter and also to better rules on the conditions under which animals are transported, such as clear standards of loading and standing heights. By the way, I am also really good at talking to sectors at national level to see where we can avoid unnecessary movements and unnecessary long-term transport, for example by not having animals that grow up here slaughtered all the way in Poland, but simply doing so closer to home so that they do not have to be transported for a very long time. Those are really constructive conversations. So I'm happy about that, too. We must do what can be done nationally, but it is mainly a European issue. So we are looking ahead to the new Commission. Mr President, I come to the other block. Mr De Groot asks what has been done with his motion on the Noordenkader Holland Pig. With my ministry, the pig chain is re-assessing the Action Plan on the vitalisation of pig farming into an integral sustainability programme. In addition to the POV, important chain partners from the animal feed and processing industries and Rabobank are involved. Improving animal welfare and animal health through the Nomenkader Holland Pig is also a topic of that conversation. The sector is already taking additional measures in the framework of standards to reduce the risk of barn fires. I have just mentioned the periodic electrification and requirements for fire detection systems in technical spaces. In the middle of this year, in the context of the elaboration of the vision, I want to make agreements with all parties in the Coalition Vitalization Pig farming on the elaboration of the sustainability challenge. Then I'll inform your room about that, too. That's the way I'm carrying out that motion. Mrs Bromet spoke about the labels. Albert Heijn has been working on labels. Mrs Bromet asks me to indicate how we can use that more. And she's actually asking me to set a lower limit. We were at the Grüne Woche this week. That's where Mrs. Bromet was. The Germans asked: how can that Better Life quality mark really work for you? I was going to explain that to the Germans; I've done that before. I said: I think the art is that the government was not involved. That sounds paradoxical, but the strength of it is that parties have found each other, so the retail sector, the animal welfare organisations and the livestock sector itself. A lower limit also becomes a lower limit in terms of price. This makes it more difficult for farmers to get that extra plus back on. It is precisely the fact that the market is going to ask for this that makes it much more powerful than that we would impose on it to happen. And in addition, I have that already indicated before, which cannot completely prohibit products from other countries from coming to the Netherlands for example. That cheap meat is next to the more expensive meat, and then there is a good chance that the cheaper meat will be bought, and not the more expensive meat. And that would eventually bring a concept down again. That's quite a search, I say. But I also see that it could be done well, perhaps because the government was not involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u74	I think it's true that the market has picked that up and that the government is following it. But we can also be inspired by the market. And we can also talk to the market. So I would very much like the Minister to raise this issue when she talks to the supermarket chains, as she has said. It is clear that meat will be more expensive if the minimum limit goes up. However, this does not mean that the price for the farmer will be lower; I think that ideally the consumer will pay more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u75	That would be the case if there were no other meat next to it in the shelves. I can't stop that from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u76	I wasn't talking about banning you. I was talking about agreeing in good consultation with the supermarket sector that that meat is simply not going to be there anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u77	I think I just indicated what conversations I'm having with the supermarkets. In addition, I cannot force the supermarkets not to put certain meat on the shelves anymore, but I can stimulate them and I can work on raising awareness to show what is appropriate to the social role that one sees for themselves. That's the search we're always doing. Mrs Bromet also asked about the state of play of the Sustainability Initiatives Act. My colleague from EZK has that bill under her care. The opinion of the Council of State has now been received. My colleague from EZK is studying the opinion and coming up with a response shortly. I can't say more about it than that. Mrs Bromet also asked about animal numbers. She's been talking about that for a while. That's a more fundamental question. Do I find it predictable that animal numbers will decrease if we take circular agriculture seriously? She referred to a conversation she had in the German Parliament. She spoke to Mr De Vries there and he said that there are too many animals in the Netherlands. Maybe it's good to check how many animals Mr. De Vries has on his farm. The answer is 700. So he's not a little farmer, just to put it bluntly. I understand that it is more convenient for Mr De Vries to have fewer animals in the Netherlands and a little more in Germany. That would be the comma you could put behind it. I don't know, because I haven't been to that conversation. I do not do justice to Mr De Vries because he cannot defend himself here. However, I would like to point out that if Mr De Vries had his business in the Netherlands, Mrs Bromet would probably find him a somewhat too large farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u78	Before that image is created, I do not want to be appreciated as a friend of Mr De Vries. It is perhaps good to add that what he said was mainly about the associated problem of manure in the Netherlands and the extent to which the Germans suffer from it. I would like to point out that the Netherlands is also being looked at from abroad when it comes to the large number of animals we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u79	I have also had some discussions with my German colleagues these days, including Mrs Klöckner. At that time it was also about the problems they now have with the Nitrates Directive in Germany. That really is not just because of the manure coming from the Netherlands. This problem is also present in Germany. Once again, everyone is entitled to their own opinion, including on what agriculture might look like in the Netherlands. I also sometimes find something about agriculture in Germany, but I do like to put a somewhat broader picture than "there are too many animals in the Netherlands; that is also what Mr De Vries says," who is a very large farmer in Germany. Germany also has problems with the Nitrates Directive. So much for the broader framework. I have indicated that we are working on the warm clean-up of the pig sector. We are also working to make the entire livestock sector more sustainable. I made money available for that, too. I already informed you a few weeks ago about what we are doing with it. I will inform you more about this shortly. That is how we are now implementing the vision. Mr De Groot asked about poultry farming. He said 44% of the companies are in violation. I explain it often, but I would like to point out that 44% is not about poultry farming in general. It is also always about the risk-based supervision of the NVWA. A selection is already being made. In this selection, where there is therefore already a greater presumption of infringement, 44% of the cases find an infringement. So it is really too generic to say that 44% of farms in poultry farming are wrong. That is without prejudice to the fact that if something is wrong, something must be done about it. As a result of the integrated risk analysis of poultry meat chain, I indicated where the risks are, what happens to them and how the NVWA itself deals with them in its supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you to the Minister for the explanation. It's based on a risk analysis, so you can't say it all over the sector. That's nice. However, I find the number high, or the risk analysis must be brilliant. When I see that the organisations that are in there at uninvited times do find stables which the NVWA apparently has not seen, I have doubts about this risk analysis. What exactly is that about? And what does the Minister think of that 44% figure? 'Cause that's a pretty high number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u81	That's what I reported. As far as I'm concerned, every percent is too much. But if you're monitoring risk-oriented, you're also a little more likely to encounter abuses. Then they have made the selection right; let me put it this way. In that sense, I think that the supervision carried out by the NVWA does indeed bring things up. I also hear Mr De Groot say: what is the NVWA doing? Well, just in those cases where she's very risk-oriented, she'll bring those cases up. So also appreciate what does happen. This cannot prevent the NVWA not seeing all the abuses. I think it might be an art if they got all that in the picture. I really should have at least three times the size of NVWA to do all that. I think that this is also the strength of risk-based supervision: you are really going to see where the greatest risks occur, and they are being identified and there are consequences. N.V.A.W.A.'s doing her job, too. But once again, every percent of violations are too much for me. Mrs Dik-Faber asks what measures I am going to take to improve the position of farmers in the chain. I have already indicated before the summer that I am announcing a number of measures to strengthen the position of farmers in the chain. Among other things, it concerns the legal combating of certain unfair commercial practices, supplemented by supervision by the ACM and dispute resolution. This also implements the European directive on OHPs. A political agreement was reached on this in Brussels just before Christmas. It also clarifies the possibilities of cooperation in the chain by adapting national competition law so that farmers know more clearly what is and cannot be done. In addition, it is about stimulating cooperation, for example through the Bill Space for Sustainability Initiatives, and providing insight into price formation in the chain and possible problems by setting up the Agro Nutri Monitor at the ACM, which will also pay specific attention to compensation for sustainability efforts. We're working very hard right now to work out all these things. Mrs. Dik-Faber is also asking about the wolf. She says: Shouldn't the Empire take on a coordinating role in this? The provinces delivered a wolf plan 2.0 yesterday. So they are perfectly able to make agreements about that with each other. I am also confident that they will find their own way. So I don't think I should have another coordinating role in this. The provinces are doing just fine. Mr Moorlag asked about the WUR measuring bar and the way NVWA used it with regard to the stable climate. Do I think the measuring bar of the WUR should be appropriate? The WUR has indeed developed a measuring bar to determine whether the climate in a stable is good. This extensive measuring bar has been translated into five signal indicators for NVWA inspectors. These are concentrations of carbon dioxide and ammonia in the air, the degree of redness and/or contamination in the eyes, the degree of ear bites, the degree of tail bites and the degree of soiling of the animals. On the basis of these indicators, the inspectors of the NVWA determine whether further investigations should be carried out. This could then lead to the imposition of sanctions. I therefore believe that these signal indicators are very valuable, including for the supervision and enforcement of NVWA, and that what the WUR has developed is very helpful in this respect. Mr Geurts asks about the approach of the criminal activists. What's going on with that? JenV's colleague is in the lead, because it is about threats. That really is the domain of Mr Grapperhaus. I fully share the opinion of Mr Geurts. I would also like to make an appeal on this point: if there is a threat, report it. Or if there are things where the yard is entered without permission or something like that, don't hesitate to report it, because then we can also do something about it. The local authority then assesses the threat and also looks at what measures are needed. Nationally, the AIVD, the police and the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator are monitoring the threat generically. JenV's colleague will soon inform the Chamber about this, also on my behalf. I have three more questions, Mr. Chairman. With regard to rabbits, Mrs Dik-Faber asked for a route to be set in motion to improve animal welfare. She says that there is now a lack of a European standard on the basis of which they can distinguish themselves, and she asked me if I would be prepared to do so in Europe. In recent years, previous farmers have already argued to the European Commission and the EU Member States for specific EU rules for rabbits, including through the Vught Declaration. The European Commission presented a report on the rabbit sector in 2018 and concluded in general that the market should regulate this itself. I do not believe that the demand for regulation is likely to be met. On the basis of its research, the European Commission sees no reason to initiate specific EU welfare rules for commercial farming. There is, however, the possibility, also for rabbit farming, to participate in the Better Life label with one star. So this is something they could take steps on their own. To keep to that Better Life label: Mr Futselaar has asked whether that is also a way of reducing piglets' mortality. The Better Life label is a private system. It is also up to the Better Life label itself to make agreements with farmers and retail about whether they would like to include this in it. I just indicated that the success might be that I didn't interfere. I'd be sorry if I broke through with this. It is really up to the parties themselves to decide which aspects they take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u82	I have to ask the Minister if she wants to talk to the parties to see if this is possible. That saves another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u83	I talk to them a lot about this, but again, this is really a private system. It's a well-functioning system and it's been thought about. If the parties consider this a subject that they could and would like to take with them, I do not think that my encouragement is necessary; then they will do so themselves. But if I'm going to say every time from the Chamber, "we still want this in and we want it in," it's not a private label anymore. Then it's a government hallmark. I would really regret it if we suddenly hijacked the whole Better Life label.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u84	I would appreciate that very much, but we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u86	I've been chewing on the answer about the rabbits. The Minister indicated that there has been research from Europe, that it is felt that the market should take this up, that there is no reason to set standards and that we have labels in the Netherlands. But yesterday I studied a report from 2016; that is already two or three years old. In that you can see that there are really huge differences in Europe in terms of keeping animals. A rabbit is better off in the Netherlands than in Spain, for example. Marks of course apply to our market, but we do not eat so many rabbits. Our rabbits are much exported to Germany and Belgium. I actually have two questions. Why does the European Commission not want a standard? And does it not make sense to draw on it, because it is a European market and because our rabbits often go abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u87	There's no unwillingness to pull that off. We pulled that off. We've been on this. We asked the Commission to look into it. The Commission concluded last year that it sees no reason to lay down detailed rules. If other Member States do not participate in the request, this is a bit the same as the Transport Regulation. Then I can still find it, but then it doesn't start. That leaves what you can do nationally, and I will give Mrs Dik-Faber exactly what the limitations are. I'll describe the situation as it is. I can't break iron with my hands. If they don't want to, I can't force them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u88	Can we go to the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u89	One last question, Mr President. That is Mr Moorlag's question about 17% pleural inflammation in pigs. Mr Moorlag asks whether that figure is correct and what I think of it. We do not keep specific figures for this condition, so I do not know whether the exact percentage is correct. It is well known that pleural inflammation is a health problem which occurs in pig farming and which has several causes. It is not possible to completely prevent animals from becoming ill, but I believe that animal health in pig farming needs to be improved. The pig sector itself wants to do so and is also developing a health ladder for pig farming with support. With this health ladder, pig farmers gain insight into the health status of their holding and can also benchmark their holding against other pig farms. For the health ladder, the slaughterhouse data will be used, among other things, to indicate the animal health status of the holding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you. That was the first term. Then we'll go to the second. No, there is another question from Mr Moorlag, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u91	If that ladder is activated and the data becomes known, is the Minister prepared to share that data with the Chamber? Otherwise, 17% will be stuck in the air as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u92	I believe that these data are at company level, and I am reluctant to share data with the Chamber at company level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u93	No, it's just a little more aggregated data, like a sample or an indication. I find the 17% percentage worryingly high. I really think that we need to look at this and get a more precise picture of the extent of this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u94	I'll see what I can answer in second place, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u95	Very good. So much for the first term. Then we'll go to the second term. The first speaker is Mrs Ouwehand from the Group of the Party of Animals. Like all participants, she has two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u96	Thank you, Mr President. The good news is that the change is in full swing in society. The bad thing is that politics is on the wrong side of the line. Farming the future, is the new slogan of the Ministry of LNV. Well, I can tell you, the future is vegan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop subsidising livestock promotion campaigns,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to breeding on high numbers of piglets and to breed on extra teats in sows,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the commitment to self-regulation and agreements in livestock farming has been demonstrably unsuccessful in achieving animal welfare goals;]] [[calls on the government to stop sector plans and take responsibility for animal welfare policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to put a national stop to the extension of existing or establishment of new goat farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to limit the number of goats per holding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1017]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1018]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1019]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Futselaar and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1020]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1021]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u97	Sure! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the evaluation of the Stalbranden 2012-2016 Action Plan identifies a number of priority measures and that it also identifies measures that are anti-damage measures;]] [[calls on the Government to incorporate all the priority measures proposed in the evaluation, as well as the three additional harm reduction measures, into the Building Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, like its predecessors, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality considers it extremely important for consumers to know where their food comes from;]] [[Whereas there is a wide gap between the image of consumers and the reality of livestock farming;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the full reality of meat, fish, dairy and eggs is made known to citizens, including through the labelling of animal products, which clarify the animal suffering associated with the product in question,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1022]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1023]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr President, the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Van Dale describes a mammal as "an animal suckling its cub";]] [[noting that, for the production of dairy mammals, they are always pregnant and have to bear pups which are removed from them immediately or within a few hours of birth so that the milk (which is intended for the young) can be sent to the dairy processor;]] [[acknowledges that it is morally problematic to use animals for the production of dairy for humans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1024]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying one final thing. I have already announced it in the agricultural budget. I've held motions. It's a moral matter. Then it is good practice for Members of Parliament to vote individually, so I will table a number of motions for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u100	Well, then we'll only take an hour off Tuesday. I call Mr De Groot from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u101	Thank you, Mr President. I had two motions. The first was actually about the slaughter of pregnant cows in the third stage of pregnancy. That had to be over because it's clearly unacceptable. The Minister has just announced that. For that, the compliments of D66. It's very good the Minister's gonna take care of that. I suppose I can also give the compliments on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u102	This is entrapment. Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u103	I am glad that Mr De Groot is happy, because when he offered the petition he literally said 'we should not do it in law'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u104	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u105	But my question is this. Earlier, the Animal Party tabled a motion to end the slaughter of pregnant cows. The Minister is now coming up with a bill for a ban in the last trimester. Previously, D66 was in favour of a ban on the slaughter of pregnant animals, whether in the first, second or third trimesters. Does D66 support the motion retabled by the Animal Party, which is dissuaded by the Minister, and which is about banning the slaughter of all pregnant cows, and not just in the last trimester?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u106	Clear. Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u107	It always has to be a little bit more, doesn't it? But what the minister's doing here is beautiful. If we can do it without legislation, as I said this morning, you have to do it without legislation. But if the Minister feels that she should take care of this, that is of course fine. But the better you can make agreements with the sector, the better. Mr President, my motion on the reduction of piglets' mortality. I'll serve her anyway. The Minister has also announced a number of things here, but I am concerned about the ambition with which you enter into these talks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 5 million piglets die every year in the Netherlands shortly after birth;]] [[Whereas the sector has made an agreement with then Minister Verburg to reduce piglets' mortality to up to 10.5% by the end of 2018;]] [[Whereas piglets' mortality has increased over the last 10 years;]] [[Whereas both the Minister and the sector have expressed their concern at reducing piglets' mortality, but the primary sector itself is unable to fulfil this agreement;]] [[Whereas the Minister has indicated that he intends to agree with chain parties on animal welfare;]] [[Whereas it has been possible in the past to reach agreements with relevant parties in the sector which have also been complied with, for example in the case of antibiotic reduction;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan of action within two months from the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to substantially reduce the piglets' mortality within five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1025]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas circular farming as described in the vision "Agriculture, Nature and Food: Valuable and Connected" will eventually lead to a reduction in livestock;]] [[Whereas a shrinkage in livestock is not regulated overnight;]] [[Whereas the agricultural sector needs a realistic long-term picture in order to make the right decisions in business operations;]] [[Whereas, in the long term, the necessary reorganisation must be carried out in a correct and social manner;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a roadmap to provide insight into the resources and deadlines for a reduction in livestock numbers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1026]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u109	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas animal welfare in the Dutch stables is not yet sufficient;]] [[noting that a Better Life label has been initiated in the Netherlands from the sector;]] [[noting that new stables are still being built;]] [[calls on the government to align the standard of newly built stables with the requirements of that of the stable at one star of the Better Life label,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1027]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u110	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas animal welfare in the Dutch stables is not yet sufficient;]] [[noting that there is a well-functioning Better Life label in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what (European) legislation and means are needed to ensure that all stables meet a standard equivalent to the requirements for one star of the Better Life label by 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1028]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u111	Then Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four points, first of all on animal transport. The Minister indicated that the transport regulation would not be amended with this Commission. It has placed its hopes on the new Commission, but is it possible to make agreements with neighbouring countries? A lot of transport takes place towards Germany and other neighbouring countries, so perhaps a European leading group is possible. The Minister replied to the wolf plan 2.0. I gotta tell you, I missed that news, but I'm gonna look it up. I'm glad to hear that provinces can agree on this together. I'll, of course, study the plan. Then the point of the pregnant cows. It is good that legislation is being prepared to prevent the slaughter of pregnant cows after six months of pregnancy. At the same time, that border feels very arbitrary. I have planned to listen to dairy farmers, veterinarians and so on in the coming period, to hear how this is going to be done in practice and how they are looking at it, because something is wrong with it. The slaughter of pregnant cows just doesn't feel okay. Finally, Mr President. I have one motion, about rabbits. That is not because I do not think that the efforts of the minister and previous ministers are sufficient; quite the contrary. It's really meant to be support in the back. A new Commission is also coming. Maybe that's what makes it possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the rabbit farming sector a route has been set in motion to improve animal welfare;]] [[Whereas there is no European standard enabling them to distinguish themselves and to recover a plus on animal welfare in the market;]] [[Whereas the existing European directives are too minimal to actually improve animal welfare;]] [[Whereas such a standard could also improve animal welfare in southern European countries;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts at EU level to establish a European standard for rabbit farming, in particular following the formation of the new European Commission, which enables rabbit farmers to distinguish themselves and recover their plus on animal welfare in the market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1029]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u114	Then we're gonna listen to Mr. Geurts from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are animal activists who threaten farmers, enter their holdings illegally and feel supported by the fact that some organisations continue to display false images of Dutch animals legally kept;]] [[declares that the threat to farmers and their families and the illegal entry of their property must never be allowed, and that action must be taken against it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1030]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u116	One question. Where does Mr Geurts base the false images? If I have all that knowledge on paper about what we know about how rules are put together and what is allowed with animals and how little control there is to take place, about what to do when you find an animal that isn't going to make it, and about how many animals die in the stable and who don't even make the transport, compared to the images, then I think: that's what it looks like, all those chickens together, so much fall out. So where does Mr Geurts base it that it would be an incorrect image?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u117	I think it is a good thing that Mrs Ouwehand is really going to look into the field for once. I can also hear her say it on paper and the footage. That is on the basis of which you decide. I would like to call on you to look into the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u118	I have a fact about this, Mr President, because this is something I always get thrown at my feet. If I make agreements with the sector and say 'well, I'll come and see, I'll go and answer your invitation', then I'm only welcome if the stable is raked and if the animals are just there and not just before the moments when the animals go to slaughter and certainly not if I would like to take pictures and images myself. That is the reaction of the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u119	That is the reality that Mrs Ouwehand has, but I have already tried to outline it; it is about what Mrs Ouwehand sees and what I see when we look through the same window.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u120	I do not have much difficulty with the text of the motion, but what I do have a bit of difficulty with is that it seems that the Chamber is expressing that something that is illegal is not allowed. And I think that's pretty obvious. The question is, therefore, what is the added value of the motion over and above the existing practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u121	I am shocked today that one of our colleagues here is making it clear that activism is going to increase. I'm thinking about how to deal with that. 'Cause what information does that colleague that I don't have? So I'm thinking about it. This motion is simply a support in the back of all those farmers and peasants who do their work with heart and soul. I think the Minister has spoken very well about it and I would like to join him. I think this motion is a good supporter of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u122	That is up to Mr Geurts, but I am not going to support a motion intended to communicate with other parties in this Chamber, because you can also do so directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u123	I think this motion is a bit of a vote-making exercise. First of all, we cannot take any motions here about anything that is already forbidden and punishable, in the sense that if you do not agree then it would seem as if you disagree. I would also like to stand up for Mrs Ouwehand. She has condemned illegal activities on heirs. So you're creating an image that doesn't add up at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u124	I leave those words to Mrs Bromet. There's some case law, to put it that way. In the House of Representatives a long time ago a predecessor of mine, Mr Ormel, tabled a similar motion on animal testing. It has been supported by the entire Chamber, except by the Party for Animals. Then there's the second motion. I heard the Minister speak with a positive basic attitude about my commitment to rapid detection systems in relation to barn fires. The Minister also mentioned a number of amounts. I did not hear the mention of pig farming, but I should just read the report, because I only heard her mention dairy farming and poultry farming. Anyway, that doesn't change anything. I'm going to file a motion. If it is adopted, I think we will be able to come to terms with possible finances in relation to the LNV budget. The motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas barn fires cause a tragedy for the animals but also a very great suffering for the keeper and his family;]] [[calls on the Government, together with sectoral parties, to identify, and the costs of, rapid detection systems around fire in technical premises of livestock farms;]] [[calls on the 2020 budget to come up with proposals on how to support farmers in this respect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1031]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u125	Finally, in the last few seconds I have left in this period, it is nice that my highly valued CDU colleague, Mr De Vries, should inspire Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks. I'm sure I'll pass that on to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u126	It's been noted. Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her reply. Thank you also for the measures it intends to take to prevent the transport and slaughter of pregnant animals. I have a motion on goat farming. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to reduce the health risks of goat farming;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to stop the increase in the number of goat farms and the increase in the number of animals in existing goat farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Bromet and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1032]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u128	I would like to make a few comments about the talks that the Minister intends to make on animal welfare. I'd like to give her some messages. The first is, in particular, to involve the food industry and the retail trade and, if necessary, to attract a little attention. I think that is the key to making good progress towards a better level of animal welfare. If demand comes from the market and the retail and food industries stop buying products that are not produced under socially responsible conditions, then we do not take steps. It's really essential that it comes from the market. The consumer has a responsibility, but, to my taste, industry and the retail sector have an even greater responsibility. Furthermore, it would be worth a sweet thing to me if the Minister were to seek to take away the polarization she has spoken atoning words............................................................................................................................................................................................................... It would be a good thing for me to have a process in which animal welfare organisations, public authorities and industry come together in order to achieve a better level of animal welfare in line with the biodiversity agreement. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to pursue this very strongly, because I understand the polarisation we have, but in the end we have to take steps in a polemical way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you. Then Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u130	Mr. Chairman. A large part of today's debate was about whether to look again at the sector or at the government for animal welfare. In fact, I have to say that the only one in the coalition who may see the role of the government is the Minister, who comes up with legislation on pregnant cattle, and that, unfortunately, my colleagues are giving me a little less time at home. Nevertheless, four motions. The first concerns piglets' mortality. I am glad that the Minister, like me, thinks that something can be achieved at company level. I even thought I heard that in the end she didn't want to rule out government sanctions in advance somewhere behind the trial. That could be a little tighter as far as I'm concerned, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the 2009 piglets mortality plan has not worked and there is an increase instead of a reduction in piglets mortality;]] [[the piglets' mortality rate is currently 5.3 million piglets per year;]] [[Whereas, from the point of view of animal welfare and responsible business, it is desirable to reduce piglets' mortality to a percentage of not more than 10% or less;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a scheme, measuring piglets' mortality over a period of several years per farm location, with final sanctions for above average high mortality (e.g. above 10%), can promote the reduction of piglets' mortality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1033]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u131	Mr. Chairman. Then there's two motions about barn burning. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is in the process of evaluating the EIB's report on fire prevention;]] [[noting that barn fires occur mainly in the event of an out-of-date set-up;]] [[noting that the number of victims among animals is higher as more animals are kept per area;]] [[Whereas:]] [[it is desirable to minimise the number of victims among animals;]] [[the compartmentation of the various spaces, in particular those where the electrical installations are located, makes a significant contribution to reducing the number of animals killed each year as a result of a barn fire;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the rules for the storage of pigs and poultry covered by the definition for intensive livestock farming and built for the review of the rules on fire safety in 2014 are adapted in such a way as to make the compartmentalisation of electrical plant spaces mandatory; i.e. separated from the other spaces, with a fire retardant effect of at least 60 minutes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1034]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u132	The rest is a little more concise, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that lightning strikes are one of the causes of barn fires;]] [[Whereas the application to stalls of lightning rods, in particular in poultry holdings, makes a significant contribution to reducing the number of animals killed each year;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the rules for the collection of poultry covered by the definition for intensive livestock farming and built for the review of the rules on fire safety in 2014 are adapted in such a way as to make lightning rods mandatory for these holdings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1035]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u133	You're kind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u134	I'm too soft for this business, I admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report of Pigs in Need notes that there may be millions more pigs in the Netherlands than are formally registered;]] [[whereas the sector denies this;]] [[considers it undesirable that there should be long-term uncertainty on this issue;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct NVWA in cooperation with environmental services and municipalities in a short period of time (e.g. one month period) to make an inventory of pig numbers related to the environmental permit, per holding, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1036]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u136	We also had a motion recently that the Minister should just start counting animals. I wonder whether Mr Futselaar can also say: implement within a month and inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I think it would be very good if this were to happen before the Provincial State elections, because the Provincial States also have a role to play in monitoring the number of animals in livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u137	It would be my great preference if I could. But let me put it this way: if I can get the motion adopted by giving a little more room for interpretation, then I choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u138	Clear. Mrs Lodders is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I think we have had a strong debate on a rather difficult subject. Mr. Chairman. Farmers love animals, otherwise you don't stand in the morning before day and dew, seven days a week, with passion in the milking parlour or do your work in the pig or poultry stable. It is these farmers who have made the Netherlands great as a food producer. It's these farmers we should be proud of. They deserve us to stand next to them and give them room to run their business. It doesn't help, as it turned out today, if the contradiction is increased. Incidents or messing with our strict demands are not admissible; I cannot stress it often enough. Nor is it acceptable for people to put themselves above the law by manipulating images without permission, providing access and endangering animals, to death threats. On this subject, I have asked written questions together with my colleague Antoinette Laan. Can the Minister indicate when they will be answered? The debate will certainly continue at that time and not just in this committee, because I believe that we also expect a number of steps from the Minister of Justice. Mr. Chairman. Then the barn fires, which I made a point of in the first term. I've been looking into it. In the coalition agreement, we agreed to agree on the fight against rodents by entrepreneurs by 2019. I therefore expect attention from this Minister on this point, because I think it is important that one of the possible causes of these fires is actually addressed. Otherwise, we'll keep saying how bad it is. Let us also offer that opportunity. Mr. Chairman. In order to be a leading farmer and to be able to work on further sustainability and innovation, so that stable systems can be optimized even further, you have to love your animals as a farmer. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you. That was the second term of office. We're gonna listen to the minister after the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u141	We are awaiting the debate on the Brexit that will take place in this Chamber, so I would like to conclude this debate briefly and briefly. We have 20 motions and I would appreciate it if the Minister could go through them with a certain sumptuousness. She'll be able to do a little earlier today. That is also of state importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you, Mr President, for thinking so hard about me. We have 20 motions and a number of questions. I'll do the motions first. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 1017 calls on the government to stop subsidising livestock promotion campaigns. We do not subsidise livestock promotion campaigns, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u143	One short question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mr. Chairman. That's not true. Either the Minister is lying, or she lied when replying to the actual questions in the budget. €500,000 per year from the EU budget in recent years. We can stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u145	Promotion campaign for livestock farming from the EU budget? I have to think very hard, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u146	Well, perhaps the Minister can check her own answers to the factual questions we have asked and then give a written response to this motion. The Minister has made it quite clear himself. €500,000 in recent years, per year, for the Dutch sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u147	But that's not a promotional campaign with a commercial purpose. I don't quite understand what I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u148	Well, Mr. Chairman. Do I really have to spell it out? The egg sector has cheated with fipronil. At that time, the image of this sector had fallen slightly to the consumer. Then money goes there to clean up the broken image of the sector. I asked what kind of schemes are there that contribute to the promotion of animal products, and then the Minister replied: from the EU budget in recent years, €500,000 a year. I think that for every year €500,000 too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u149	Mr. Chairman. Those are the POP resources, I think, and so are the provinces. I shall return to that in writing. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 1018: Stop stimulating the breeding of piglets with extra teats. As a government we do not encourage this, but the starting point is that each sow should be able to feed its own piglets. That is also the starting point in the plan of action bigvitality. That is what we are going to steer, and that is what we are talking about in the discussions with the sector. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u150	Actual correction. I do not know what the Minister has in mind, but my motion says 'calls on the government to put an end to breeding on high numbers of piglets' and does not encourage anything. We have to talk about the same texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u151	Okay, well, I've already indicated that social production and breeding are issues in the plan of bigvitality and that we're already working on that. By the way, we are also going to look at the relationship between the control size and the piglets' mortality, so this is something that has already been picked up. I advise against this motion. The motion-Ouwehand/Futselaar in part No. 1019 calls on the government to stop making sector plans. It is precisely sector plans that can be very effective from time to time. I would also like to point out, for example, the antibiotic approach. Not everything can always be enforced through legislation, if only because we are also in a European playing field. Then it is advisable to take matters up with the sector. That is also good because we want changes to come out of the market so that a better income model is created for farmers. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1020 on the national stop on the extension of existing or establishment of new goat farms. The provinces have a responsibility here. A number of provinces have also set a stop. I therefore see no reason to introduce a national stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u152	So, dissuade it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u153	Dissuade, yes. The motion in part No. 1021 calls for a proposal to limit the number of goats per holding. A VGO study is currently under way, which was completed in 2020. It looks at the relationship between goat farming and public health. Until I get the results, I have no justification for the maximation of the number of goats per farm. So I advise against this motion. The motion on the barn fires in part No. 1022 calls for all priority measures plus three additional ones to be included in the Building Decision. I have just indicated the balance we have made between effectiveness, cause and cost-effectiveness of measures and why I have made the choices we have made, also in consultation with other parties involved in the action plan. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1023 is about ensuring that the reality becomes known to citizens, including through labelling. We have just had a debate about the fact that consumers themselves can also be informed. In fact, if they want to visit a farmer, they're really welcome, so is my experience. Then they can see for themselves what's going on. I don't keep things from you. The label is something from the market. With regard to Better Life, there are already a number of conditions attached to it. But labelling is something from the market and not from the government. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1024 calls for recognition that it is morally problematic to use animals for the production of dairy for humans. It's not a request; it's more like an assignment or something. The Chamber recognizes that it is morally problematic. So I see this as some kind of statement from the Chamber. So it's not so much about what I need to think about that. I've, I think, just indicated how I'm in it myself. So I'm gonna leave this one to judge room. I would advise against the motion, let me put it this way, because I believe that we humans can also use animals in our food supply. But this is a statement from the Chamber. So I guess I don't have to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u154	It's okay, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u155	I wouldn't advise her, but it's up to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 1025 by Mr De Groot. I have just indicated how I intend to deal with the sector with regard to piglets mortality. That's a real priority for me. I'm also trying to shape the benchmark. Quite specifically, the motion asks me to come up with a plan of action. I think it is of the utmost importance that this plan of action be taken by the sector. Otherwise I'm gonna be the one who thinks that and then the rest of us can sit back a little bit. It's their plan of action. If I read the motion in such a way that I, together with the sector, take the initiative to set up that benchmark and that the sector comes up with that plan, I can leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u156	You'll have to say something about that, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u157	The point is, D66 is that the minister is in charge so that the plan gets there. It is indeed a good thing that it is ultimately a plan of the sector, so that it has been carried.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u158	I think that's important, because if it's my plan, some of it can sit back and say, "This isn't mine." If it's their plan, I'll stick to their plan. Of course, I'm going to push them very hard to shape their own plan. I'm on top of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u159	Provided, of course, that these are the parties with which you can make agreements, because the parties with which agreements have been made so far are clearly unable to keep them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u160	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u161	It's getting more and more cryptic, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr De Groot is nuancing his own motion. It's okay. It's a free country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u163	On the contrary, Mr President. The point is that until now the agreements have been reached with the representatives of the primary sector, namely LTO and POV, and it appears that they are not in a position to meet their commitments. The intention of the motion is that the Minister should involve the processors in these agreements, i.e. the slaughterhouses which can take responsibility with a private quality system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u164	On the contrary, I think it is important that the parties of the primary producers themselves have a plan of action, because those are the ones who have to do so. In the debate I set out exactly how I want to fulfil my role, and if that is what this motion is about, I can give her a Chamber. I see that Mr De Groot indicates that that is what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u165	So that judgment is room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u166	Yes. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1026 on the reduction of livestock. I have already indicated how we are going to proceed with the warm clean-up of pig farming. You have just received a letter about this. I have also indicated how I am doing to make the sector more sustainable. I have the impression that Mrs Bromet wants to continue with the reduction of livestock and I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1027 requests that the standard for newly built stables be aligned with the requirements for the stable at one star of the Better Life label. There are European animal welfare rules on housing. These are standards and the like, and it is not that we can simply force them to do so. We do encourage that the new stables are more sustainable in their entirety, for example by means of the Sustainable Farming Maatlat. That is what we are working on in practice. Behind the demands of the Beter Leven label is really a market concept and it is not that I can now just copy it to all the stables. We are in the process of encouraging this, but this is a little too absolutely formulated and I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1028 is also about the Better Life label. The Better Life label is a quality mark for market management. There is no role for legislation in this, because then the added value from the market is gone. That's why I advise against this motion. Mrs Dik-Faber asks us in her motion for a resolution on item No. 1.029 to continue our commitment to the EU standards for rabbit farming. I'm willing to do this when there's another momentum. It is possible that the new Commission has taken office. So I'm gonna leave this motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 1030 of the CDA states that action must be taken against illegal heirs. I believe that this motion allows the Chamber to pronounce that and does not ask me to find out anything about it. Is that right? I see that Mr Geurts confirms that. It might also be useful to pass this on to JenV. Anyway, it's up to your room to find something. The motion in part No. 1031 deals with the issue of detection systems and calls for proposals from the 2020 budget on how we can support farmers in this. I have already indicated that I am open to the request to see how I can support it. I can't quite guarantee that I'll be able to do it financially, let me add. Hopefully Mr Geurts will see my open attitude. With that commitment, to put it that way, I can give her judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. The Commission is also proposing to extend the scope of Regulation (EEC) No 1032 to cover the extension of goat farming. In my view, this is about the same as the motion that has been tabled before, in my view by Mrs Ouwehand. I've already indicated that the provinces here are already taking their role. That's why I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Futselaar (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Futselaar on his excellent report. I just indicated that we are shaping the benchmark. That seems to me to be the way to get a good insight into that. It is possible to examine whether an arrangement can help, but I have a bit of a problem with the word "sanctions." Again, by analogy with how we deal with antibiotics, I do not want to speak equally about sanctions. My goal is to ask: what is needed to achieve better results on your business? I find the word "sanctions" to be some sort of bad will. I repeat that it is not advantageous for livestock farmers to die prematurely. If I may read the motion in such a way that we are taking additional stimulant actions to prevent excess mortality rates and to promote the reduction of piglets' mortality, then I could give the 'judgement chamber' motion. Nor do I believe that I should push it right into an arrangement. I understand the thrust of the motion, but I think it is a bit formulated in parts. So I am not going to promise that it will be an arrangement, and I would really like to make the word'sanctions' into 'extra action' or 'extra motivation'. In this context, I would also like to consider adjusting the motion in line with these lines. Then I could give her "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u167	It is not for nothing that I said in my own contribution that it should not be fines for me. It may also be the task of making a plan of action. But I don't want it to be completely noncommittal. That's kind of my goal here. I don't mind making it "consequences." I would also like to make the point that it must lead to 'additional actions'. Something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u168	Something like that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u169	I'm trying to make that kind of formulation out of it. Then I'll re-apply her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u170	All right, so we are looking at a new motion for a resolution, instead of the one on item No. 1033.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u171	Yes. The motion in part No. 1034 is about compartmentalisation. I have just said how the balancing has taken place, and the costs are also taken into account. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1035 is about the lightning rods. I just indicated that lightning is rarely the cause of fire. For me, it's important to look at the main causes for barn fires. The EIB estimates the cost of lightning rods at around €80,000 per pig farm. That's a lot. I'm gonna have those lightning rods checked out first, see if they're really that expensive. In the motion, however, I am asked to do so. So I'm not gonna do that right now, so I'm gonna back off this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u172	By the way, in the motion, it is only about laying up poultry. But I think I'll hold the motion. Then I'll get some information at some point. After that, I can always choose to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u173	That's also an option, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u174	At the request of Mr Futselaar, I propose his motion (28286 No. 1035). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u175	In the last motion, in part No. 1036, is asked to instruct the NVWA to make a short-term inventory of pig numbers. I have indicated that I am going to examine the data of RVO, NVWA and other organisations involved, I am going to bring these data together and then I am going to make an analysis of what is actually happening. The question was also whether this could happen before the elections for the Provincial States of March 2019. Let me say that I do not have a clear agenda as to why this could not happen before the elections. Let us say that we are going to do everything in our power to ensure that it is there before that date, if that is something Mrs Ouwehand would like to know before that date. But I am not going to do what is requested in the motion, because I want the results of the analysis first. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr. Futselaar, your motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u177	My fear is that in a few months' time the Minister will come up with a letter in which she writes: I have an administrative gap and I cannot explain where it comes from on the basis of the figures. Then we're nowhere. That is why I would say: then at some point we should just start counting tails.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u178	Yes, but I indicated that I want to do that analysis first. That's what I'm gonna do first. Then there were a number of questions. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether it would be possible to agree on transport with neighbouring countries. Yeah, 'cause we're already doing that. We have a leading group of countries that want to focus on setting better rules for the new Commission. So we're gonna try that. Mr Moorlag asked about sharing the figures on pleural inflammation. The Chamber is informed about the health ladder, and in the development of the trajectory I see what possibilities there are for sharing the data at aggregated level. I have just pointed out to Mr Futselaar the cost of a lightning rod. Mrs Ouwehand asked about the funds spent on the bigvitality plan and what that resulted in. For the Bigvitality plan, for four years, from 2017 to 2020, an amount of €80,000 ex VAT per year is available from LNV. The sector is putting the same amount on the other side. A checklist of bigvitality has been drawn up for pig farmers. This will enable pig farming to engage in discussions with veterinarians and feed experts in order to make the subject open to discussion. In 2019 and 2020, a deepening of the bigvitality is necessary. We want to see how we can further reduce the fallout. That is really my commitment and my priority. This can be done, among other things, by making results measurable in the barn, through more management of farming, through sustainability in breeding programmes, through nutrition and all that kind of aspects. Mrs Lodder asked about pest control. I got in the fall, in October I mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u179	First, finish your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u180	In October I sent a letter to the Chamber in which I indicated that there should be a commitment to integrated pest management. There will be vermin control experts coming to a company. They're gonna see what's there to improve. IenW has asked RIVM to evaluate the experiences with integrated pest management. Attention will also be paid to the means of combating it. LTO is also involved in this evaluation. IenW deals with the authorisation of pesticides against pests. In the letter of 30 October, we indicated how we can fight rodents in the context of reducing the number of barn fires. The experience is now being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u181	I know that letter, but it does not go into the agreements we would make for 2019, so that entrepreneurs have more opportunities to fight rodents themselves. So I would like to reiterate my strong appeal to return to this point. I'd like to see a response for the summer. I don't care which ministry it comes from, but it's an agreement from the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u182	That is possible, but I tried to indicate in the October letter that companies are being looked into the possibilities for combating them. This happens to experts, because they have the knowledge and skills to do so. In that sense I would like to take another look at it, but I cannot promise that anything else will come out than I have already indicated. But I will get in touch with my colleague from IenW to ask what they are doing. Once again, they are going to evaluate this precisely, so I think it would be good to include that in the evaluation. But I need to see when that evaluation is going to get to IenW; I don't know that out of my head. Let me see if we can combine a few things smartly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u183	I want to get into finalizing spheres. There is another question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u184	May I first deal with one final question, Mr President? Mrs Lodder asked when her questions about activism would be answered. They're with my colleague from JenV. I checked, and I think they'll be answered as soon as possible. I am equally dependent on my colleague from JenV on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u185	I would like to thank the Minister for answering the question as to how much resources have gone to the bigvitality plan. If I have listened to her carefully, it has always been €80,000 ex VAT per year over the past four years. That's it? Because the approach ran for ten years. I also understood that the Minister is looking forward to a follow-up plan. How much money does that amount to on the LNV budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u186	I have just indicated that for the period from 2017 to 2020 this plan runs for four years and that an amount of €80,000 ex VAT is available per year from LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u187	Very good. The Brexit...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u188	And before those years? Maybe the minister isn't ready, but I'd like to know. Was money from the Ministry also invested in the approach to piglets mortality before 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u189	I should check; I don't know if one-two-three. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u190	Is that it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u191	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u192	Thank you very much. I'm glad you were with us, despite the fact that you're a little sick. That's highly appreciated. So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-9.u193	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. Mrs Ouwehand has announced that she will take a large number of roll-call votes, but she will think about this during the weekend, so hopefully she will come to a different conclusion. I'll suspend for three minutes, and then we'll talk about the Brexit.
