ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u1	We have arrived at the first term of office. The Prime Minister is about to respond. In fact, I would like to use the same number of interruptions as we had in the first term, including the Prime Minister's term. The chairman is in charge of the interruptions. Mr Omtzigt knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u2	I wanted to ask you to deal generously with that, especially if there was no interruption in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u3	That's good. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr President, thank you. To begin with, I may say very briefly that the position of the Dutch Government and its view of the next five years of the European Union is described in the State of the Union, on which we have, of course, had a debate. You know the priorities. The five priorities, i.e. migration, security, the economy, the climate and safeguarding European values abroad, stress the need for the European Union to be able to function properly internally, including respect for the democratic rule of law, the proper functioning of the European institutions and the modernisation of transparency policies. So it's five plus one. They are five clear priorities for the coming period, but they are aware that the functioning of the Union itself is underneath, including what that means for the democratic rule of law and the community of values that the European Union has also entered. I come back to a number of questions, but I thought it appropriate to report them here. For the Dutch Government, of course, there is a sense that the European Union is not perfect, is not perfect and that a lot of things can be done better. Sometimes it is still too much looking for tasks, although it is much better than it was five years ago. I believe that the work that Frans Timmermans has been the first Vice-President there, including in the area of simplification of the Union, has been a blessing. We must continue to have a focused, concentrated European Union that does very good work on a number of points, but does not necessarily seek new tasks that would fall outside such a strategic agenda. That is what we need to monitor closely with each other, also from the point of view of subsidiarity and at what level you can best organise things. If we look through our eye hairs, including our role as politicians, where the European Union ultimately has its added value and the effects it can achieve, then we see that they lie in two areas. I think they are central to our functioning as a politician. Firstly, we need to create a strong economy, an economy that allows people to use their talents and work in jobs on the labour market. There the European Union certainly plays a crucial role, for other Member States, but also for a country such as the Netherlands, an exporting country like the Netherlands, with so many jobs that depend on these exports and so many jobs that depend on exports within the European Union. The second main task that we as politicians have, at least that would be my view of our profession, is security in the broadest sense of the word. I will come back to that later. The fact in itself that we are working together as 28 Member States, at the moment, and by working together in an unstable world, giving countries an embedding in a strong structure has a very great added value. This structure is a very important one, alongside, of course, the United Nations and NATO, because there is very intensive cooperation here in a number of important areas. Perhaps that is also the explanation that people are not only intellectually aware, I think we are doing the same here, and I hope that this applies to all of us here, but also emotionally understand that in a world where there is so much going on, it is simply intellectually impossible to explain when you decide to leave such a circle of cars, such an association. It also feels very bad in the belly and heart that suddenly as a small country of 300 by 200 kilometers with high prosperity and with 17 million people, one of the richest countries in the world, we are in this full wind of all these great international developments without embedding in that strong structure. That is perhaps also the explanation why research shows again today that almost 90%, I believe, or 86% of the Dutch say: we should not get out of it. I think that to an important extent is also what I feel personally in the heart and "gut" besides that I understand with my mind that this really is the last moment when you should consider that if at all. I'm just looking at England as well, because then you see what happens if you do and what constitutional, economic and financial mess you're causing together. Having said that, maybe I'll just go through all the questions. I've tried clustering them, but the members of your Chamber have managed to ask so many questions about so many different topics that clustering was hopeless, so against my habit I'm just going through the questions. I have decided, however, to mix up the groups. That wasn't planned, by the way, but it came about in the preparation. So it is not necessarily exactly in the order of the speakers. Mrs. Leijten asked about the character of what we're going to do in Sibiu. It's a non-binding statement. It is prepared by the Romanian Presidency, but it is consulted with the Member States. So I guess that's what I haven't seen lyrics yet, but without a whole agenda coming out of it. For they rightly said: first the European elections. Only in June will we really set the political direction together for the next five years. Of course, we are early with this debate because of our recess, so there are no such texts at the moment. But they will, as usual, be shared confidentially with you as soon as they are. We would normally, I think, have had a preliminary debate just before that summit. I can't do that right now, because of the holidays. But my expectation is that we are also committed to that, and that is also what we are assured that it is not binding and that it is above all an explanation, an evocation about the question: what are we doing with each other? So the purpose of being together in Sibiu is not so much that explanation either. Honestly, he'll be at your service. What is more important is that we can talk to each other there, even outside the violence of the elections, looking through the hairs of the eyes over the last five years and over the next five years: what are we going to do? Think of it as a way forward after the elections, if we also know the political balance in the European Parliament, to the actual political agenda setting for the next five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u5	There will therefore be a final declaration drawn up by the most corrupt country in the European Union, Romania, which would be symbolic. I believe that the Prime Minister is one of the longest-standing Heads of State of the European Council, if not the longest-standing Head of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u6	Haha, head of state by now! Yeah, I like that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u7	Yeah, that's what it's called. But doesn't he know that we don't have to be naive about all these kinds of statements? That they have a very great effect? And what if there's a huge push on enlargement? Because we know that Romania is using its Presidency to push for enlargement. Can the Netherlands sign that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u8	This informal Council cannot take political decisions at the outset, so that is not possible anyway. Of course, we can now come up with all kinds of dance scenarios. If it says: we are going to double the European budget. Or: we are going to expand the Union overall. Then, of course, I will say afterwards that I liked it all and that we had a good conversation, but that the explanation has little value to me. But now we're in some kind of dance scenario. I honestly assume that the Romanians will vote that we will come to some more general texts without giving political direction. This can only be done after the elections. I will leave what Mrs Leijten says about Romania for a moment. During my visit to Romania, I felt that in September or October last year, I was critical of the rule of law in all meetings. I have great faith in the president of the country, Klaus Johannis. He's an excellent man. He is a member of the European Council in Romania's political relations and he is head of state again, so I am not a special position. I have great faith in him personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u9	The Prime Minister does not want to go into the question as a dance, but we do know that Romania is now really using its Presidency to put certain issues on the agenda and put them on the agenda. We have seen how they dealt with the export WW. We can see that on the extension file. I myself have been to an interparliamentary conference in which it has really fallen apart. At that time, Parliament said: at least we do not sign the final declaration. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether that is also an option: is he willing to do so? Or perhaps in a more charming form? Does he wish to make an effort to ensure that there is no final statement for this so-called symbolic and so-called informal meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u10	The latter is a blow to the face of the Romanian Presidency. I'm not gonna do that. But if there's a mess in that statement, I'll make it clear, of course, that it's not on my behalf. But I have no reason to suspect that. Mr. Chairman. Then indeed ripe and green, but with that all important as well. I think this is also particularly true: Mr Asscher spoke about digital taxation and profit taxation. You know the story about taxing profits: we are trying to see whether a minimum tax is possible at a level comparable to the Dutch national list of low-taxing countries. The Netherlands is constructive in that discussion. There are currently no plans for a minimum tax in Europe. That is not a disaster either, because of the discussion that is taking place at OECD level. I believe that a global solution, or at least an OECD solution, is better than a European one. International cooperation is also needed to combat tax evasion. The second half of Mr Asscher's comment was about a digital tax. As we know, there was insufficient support for the EU proposal in March in Ecofin. This brings the ball back to the OECD when it comes to digital taxation. It comes in June with an update and a work plan. We were able to live well with an EU solution. We can also live with an OECD solution. I also understand that Mr Asscher says: if that does not work, you must be able to look nationally. That this should be possible, I understand; I agree with him. The question of whether to do so, and with what measures and so on, is part of the political debate. All parties must take their positions in this. We await today's announced bill from the Labour Party. But if the European Union or the OECD were not to succeed, I think the main thing is that you should at least have political space to talk about it at national level and to take decisions, regardless of the desirability and direction in which such a decision should take place, because I do not know what else the legislative proposal contains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u11	We have read this weekend that there is a change of course with one of the coalition parties, because the VVD says: we are no longer the party of the multinationals. This was endorsed by this Prime Minister from a to z. That also gives room for this debate. One of the things we suffer from is tax competition. As a result, countries continue to reduce the tax on profits, under pressure from a threat that multinationals are pulling away. You can wait for the OECD, but I think that the most important risk for the Netherlands is tax competition from countries in the European Union. So is it not even time to put this new course into practice and go to a minimum rate? I think there is support for this in this House of Representatives. This would mean that we in the Netherlands would not have to reduce this tax so far. This means room for people's wages and for investment in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u12	I believe that Mr Asscher sums up the debate in my party a little too short and does not fully reflect the historical positions in this debate. But I do not think that this is relevant to the debate we are having. I believe that there is broad political support in our society for digital multinationals to pay their fair share of taxes. The fact is that we are currently trying to do so in the OECD context. In the EU context: good as well. I understand Asscher in such a way that he says: I come up with a bill to regulate it nationally. Technically, that's possible. Especially if it does not work in the EU or in the OECD, we can make use of our powers of national taxation, but whether and to what extent it does, of course, will have to be discussed. But I do not think there is a misunderstanding or a difference of opinion about the need for these companies to pay their fair share. I think we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u13	That is very important, because it undermines solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u14	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u15	It also undermines the support for social services. We can already see that it is being used in Europe as an argument against Member States, against national governments, also against this government: "the tax on profits should be reduced, otherwise consider leaving companies'. I think we can see that it is referred to by Klaas Dijkhoff in De Telegraaf as 'a miscalculation', which has gone too far in the discussions on dividend taxation and profit taxation, without saying anything about the historical interpretation of the VVD. You can wait for the OECD, but I think there is an opportunity, especially after the European elections, to make this solidarity possible at European level. Then you need a minimum rate for the Vpb and agreements on taxes. That it is technically possible, I understand, but I would like a clear statement from the Prime Minister: does he agree that, because of solidarity, it is time to stop tax competition in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u16	Well, wait a minute. Now we are going to be very precise, because this is a very broad statement. When it comes to corporation tax, so the profit tax, we have to be careful. We'll go, I think... And that has nothing to do with whether you're for or against big companies; I'm not for or against big companies, I'm for a lot of jobs in the Netherlands and you need big companies for that too. But that doesn't make them an end in itself. This tax on profits: for a smaller country like the Netherlands, tax competition is a relevant instrument, including in our European competitive position. The Netherlands has, of course, already put forward proposals for this and decided on its own position, by drawing up such a national list of low-taxing countries. We are, of course, minimal in this respect. However, I think that this is lower for Mr Asscher than what the Netherlands now uses as a minimum for that list of low-taxing countries. What I would guard against is a situation where you would say: we are going to remove the entire tax competition from the tax on profits. I would say that this is dangerous, because that is not good for the competitiveness of the Netherlands. I agree with him that these companies should simply pay a fair share. Specific to the digital tax is something quite different, namely that, no matter how high that profit tax is, they can avoid it by saying: "Oh, we just don't charge in Europe or we have Google or anyone in the Netherlands and it has ads, but we don't tax it here. I agree with him that we have to, and then I find the path we have now, the right one: first OECD, then EU. Then at least if all of that doesn't work, we'll have room here to go further into that. But I am not going to go so far as to say now: we need to take a national initiative, knowing that those other tracks are still running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Asscher, second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u18	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yes, your third question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yeah, in this series. Beautiful, isn't it? Then I'm gonna help him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u21	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u22	That counter's going on and on. That's incredibly annoying. Finally, Mr President. At a minimum rate of profit tax you can think of 18%. This is higher than what this government has done for the Netherlands. Then you can still vary above that rate. But we can agree that you will remove an incentive for companies to threaten national government. I have read Klaas Dijkhoff's statements in such a way that he no longer wants to be blackmailed for that argument, that he no longer wants to be the party to the multinationals. I think that's a very important signal. So I hope that's not a test balloon, but that it also gets meaning. We will continue to argue in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u23	Then I'll be forced to point out what Dijkhoff's saying. It is not that he is wearing the cloak as Mr Asscher now blames the VVD, but he does point out that it is important for a party that is a pro-business person, that is, of course, the VVD in order to ensure that you cannot be defined in that frame. So where Mr Asscher will of course never have intended to put that frame on the VVD, I am particularly pleased with Mr Dijkhoff's piece, because that piece also gives him the conviction that that would be unjustified. Mr. Chairman. Then the seats. Then where is this European Parliament going to sit? As far as we are concerned, only in Brussels, or at least in one place. I believe that it may also be Strasbourg from the Netherlands, I think. I'm gonna take a look at the official support. Yeah, you can. It may also be Strasbourg, as long as it is in one place. I think it is a real waste of my political capital to argue for this in the European Council, because it must be adopted unanimously. And with the support of the PVV, the French President will never argue for that, so that's really not a chance. We'll do it, by the way. For example, Minister Blok recently discussed in the informal General Affairs Council that the EP should have only one seat. This has also been communicated to the Chamber in that report, but it seems pointless to waste political capital on it in the European Council. Mr. Chairman. Then there is biodiversity and the UN summit on it. The Netherlands wants to ensure care for nature and the services that nature provides, by strengthening the national, European and international policy cycle. Ambition is to arrive at a new deal for nature at the end of next year at the biodiversity conference in China. This is a framework aimed at implementation for the period from 20 to 30, i.e. the next decade, with clearly defined objectives. We want to achieve this mainly through voluntary national commitments, which will also involve civil society. As far as possible binding agreements are concerned, we want to do so. I would point out, however, that the chances of this success are very limited. If this fails, it is at least important to use a tight mechanism to monitor the implementation of voluntary agreements. A letter has already been sent by Carola Schouten, the Minister of LNV, about our commitment. She will also inform the Chamber about this later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u24	It sounds like the Netherlands wants to work for better nature conservation, but I do not quite trust that. The Netherlands would also work in Europe for stricter testing of agricultural poison for the protection of bees and bumblebees, and now it appears that the Netherlands is simply doing the opposite behind the scenes. It is very nice that there are targets for 2030, but I want to know if the Prime Minister is going to make a commitment to at least achieving the targets for 2020, because then you will be a bit credible if you try to get the rest to show more commitment to the protection of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u25	We have now entered a sidewalk that is very far away from the informal summit in Sibiu and the agenda for the coming years. I am really going to confine myself to the answer now and refer to the further debate with the Minister of LNV, otherwise I will have to improvise or ask officials to give me further information on this, but then I will be fully involved in the field of the Minister of Agriculture. So I would like to confine myself to the previous answer and then respectfully refer to the debate with the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u26	Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he at least recognizes that if the Netherlands does not do so very well ourselves we will be dangling at the bottom of the lists when it comes to the protection of biodiversity The Netherlands will be laughed at if he says that the Netherlands is going to do its best for binding agreements. In the direction of D66, the Prime Minister is responding, I agree with that in itself, that you need to be credible. So the Prime Minister should have a word with the Minister of Agriculture if the promise he makes here is to be a bit credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u27	I refer to the previous answer, which seems to me to be better. Then there was the question about the social dimension. We in Europe are in favour of creating a deeper, but also a fairer, internal market. The social dimension can contribute to this, including the maintenance of support. It is true that in the division of agreements I attach particular importance to maintaining social policy in this way, which is primarily a national matter. Ultimately, you want companies and employees to reap the benefits of the internal market. It is therefore necessary to have a level playing field, to have fair competition, to prevent fraud and to promote equal treatment. The Economic and Social Council has recently published a review of the choices and priorities in this area. We are going to respond to that soon. Minister Koolmees will soon present a letter to the Chamber on the Dutch commitment to the social dimension in Europe, but within the existing division of tasks. We expect it to be ready by the end of May and early June. Then there is the question of what we are going to do to change the Member States' minds about the rule of law and whether this is not a priority list. I have already answered that: it is five plus one. The "five" are the priorities that the Union is actively implementing, and the "plus one" is the prerequisite for doing this properly. In this context, it is important that Europe defends the rule of law and European traditions internally. In this respect, it is also an integral part of the Dutch commitment to the functioning of the European Union. This also applies to countries such as Hungary and Romania. Then there's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u28	Finish your sentence, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u29	The question of the rule of law has been answered for my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u30	Soon in June we will have that strategic agenda for the coming years. I think it would be important to bear in mind that one of the major problems that the European Union is currently struggling with internally is that of a number of countries in the European Union. I mentioned Hungary and Romania, the host country. I could also have mentioned Poland and perhaps a number of other countries. As far as I am concerned, this should be discussed in Romania on 9 May, and this should be included in that strategic agenda. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with me and whether he intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u31	Yes, because the whole effort of the Netherlands is five plus one. The plus one is the peripheral part of the work we are doing to make Europe work at all. This includes how Europe works in terms of institutions, how agreement is made, but above all how we ensure that we respect the European values that we want to project outwards on the world stage, first and foremost internally. If we don't, of course we have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u32	I mentioned the example of Hungary, and of course the Prime Minister is well aware of this: the European Parliament, the Article 7 procedure. At the moment, it is not even possible to get enough countries together for a hearing in which Hungary has the opportunity to defend itself. I remember very well that the Prime Minister said in our very first debate on this: we must take that step first, otherwise it will be unkind and unfair to Hungary. We are now three-quarters of a year on, I think, but there is not even sufficient support for that hearing in the European Council. So that means that it's a little rhetorical, if you can't go through with that kind of stuff. My question to the Prime Minister once again, apart from some kind of general precondition, is what he will do in concrete terms to bring about this kind of thing and to put into effect such an Article 7 procedure in the case of Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u33	Keep pulling that and doing our best. It didn't work out right now. I totally agree with Van Ojik: that also frustrates me, of course. It's very unfortunate that that majority didn't arrive before that hearing. We will continue to work for this with similar Member States, but the fact is that it has not been achieved so far and that we cannot enforce it. All we can do is try to get enough support for such a hearing. At the moment, that didn't work out. If you then see what crazy things the Prime Minister of Hungary has done towards leading people in Europe, including Mr Van Ojik's party, but also Juncker and others, then that is double-clamping for a country like the Netherlands. We think it's important anyway. Then you can see how this can work out for people and how they can be exposed in Hungary, but then it is not possible to get such a hearing. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Meer dan die frustratie delen kan ik nu ook niet.]] I can promise here that we will do it, but I can only deliver on that promise if we succeed in getting sufficient support for it. We'll keep working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u34	I understand, of course, what the Prime Minister is saying. What he can promise is that when he arrives in Romania with his colleagues, Mr Orban and all the others, this will be a serious subject of discussion and, if not, he will be the one to put it on the agenda. That's what I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yes, but also very precise, because I want us to make good agreements here too. In Sibiu, on the basis of our broad support from the Chamber of the Union's State, I am going to argue for the five priorities for the Union plus this marginal priority, namely respect for the democratic rule of law, the functioning of the institutions and the modernisation of our transparency policy. That's what I'm gonna do. It is probably not the time in Sibiu to discuss a hearing on Hungary. You have to pick the points for that. We in the Netherlands can say very Calvinist: we are going to say that, because then we have a good feeling. But I would, being Calvinist myself, especially argue in favour of finally choosing the forum and the place where it is best to do so. I don't know if that's in Sibiu on 9 May. We really need to look at that at a time. That's situational: what is the best place to promote that? But the principle of respect for the democratic rule of law as a prerequisite for a well-functioning Union will be actively introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u36	I agree with the Prime Minister's answer. In the State of the Union, in which the Cabinet set out its vision of the Union, the introduction also begins with a story about Europe as a Union of values. That is very much in line with the five-plus-one reasoning that the Prime Minister has outlined, but what does that look like? If you discuss with each other in Sibiu what the substantive priorities are for the Union for the coming years, for example tackling the migration crisis, then I think you will make very concrete agreements on a better European asylum system and better surveillance of the external borders. But how do you translate the Europe of values and the protection of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u37	It's gonna be the search. That's not gonna happen in Sibiu. It's gonna happen in June. I am with Mr Jetten on the issue of migration. I hope he is right that it will be so concrete, because then we would be a long way off. Then we have the knot removed there too, but there is also a knot in this point. Now, not much more will be done than talk about how we are going to do this whole Article 7 procedure on Hungary, or this type of procedure, with each other in the future. But what you may or may not be able to do towards June, also in other places, also depends on how the European playing field develops. We really need to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u38	I understand that this will have to be further worked out. But does the Prime Minister see a role for the new European Commission or, above all, for his gremium, namely the Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u39	Again: what is most effective. We have always seen the European Commission as an institution that monitors the agreements. The European Council owns the strategic agendas. It sets out the strategic direction of the Union for the next five years. The European Commission is the body that can take initiatives and that owns the joint agreements. You can also see that again. I refer again to Frans Timmermans in how he is currently working on the issue of Romania-Hungary-Poland. That really comes from the European Commission, but that can only be done if they are politically supported by the European Council or at least by the relevant players. The way in which the procedures are now designed makes it almost impossible to pull it loose when it gets stuck. I believe that in some cases you only need one other Member State to stop you, but I should check that out. But there are some huge clamps on the system that make it very difficult to pull loose if you don't do that with an overwhelming majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u40	Is this an example of an issue in which one should actually observe with one another that one sometimes has to lay down a little more power and powers in Europe, so that the Commission can apolitically intervene if countries do not respect our values of the rule of law and democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u41	In fact, the Netherlands argues in favour of this. I do not consider that to be a transfer of powers. I believe that this is more a reflection of the constitutional principle, the values that Europe shares with each other and the role that the Commission should play. This is almost part of the motion that the SP tabled a while ago on the enforcement role of the European Commission. So I don't see it as so much as the sensitive subject of power transfer. For me, it's a lot more of how you make things happen that you want them to happen. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the functioning of the internal market. I would like to respond to Mrs Leijten's comment on this point. I am not getting very clear whether she chose the approach route of the Services Directive and the notification procedure as a problem for municipalities, or the procurement in the corner of health care. There has been a lot of debate here about public procurement in the area of public health in the sense that we are looking for opportunities. The cabinet, Hugo de Jonge, is working in Europe to see if there is no more customisation, or if there is no more space, so I have no news about that now. We all think you should try to find that space. About the fact that the notification procedure would be problematic for municipalities in some cases, I would like to say a few things. The 2006 Services Directive is now at the heart of the internal market for services, in which the review of the Services Directive actually raises the question of whether the proposed rules are necessary, proportionate and non-discriminatory. I think that's an important test. This helps entrepreneurs, even if they are operating abroad, in offering their services. Municipalities can simply take measures to regulate matters properly at local level without being hindered in advance, but then they have to argue why certain measures are needed, for example in the context of public policy, public security, public health or the environment. So that's possible; that's already possible. But I would be opposed to further simplifying this whole notification procedure, as you will then have a fragmentation of the internal market and also protection structures for foreign entrants, for other parties. So once again, briefly, the public procurement in the care of municipalities is being looked at. I have no further news on this, but that debate is taking place here. I think we can agree on that. And in the notification procedure there is every room for municipalities to deviate, but then they have to argue it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u42	The problem with this notification procedure is that municipalities will have to submit possible measures to the European Commission in advance before they can take a decision. Amsterdam is strongly opposed to this. That's still in the trilogue. This is still there because many large cities are opposed to it. They have a partnership in this area, including in order to tackle or regulate Airbnb and Uber, because they cause problems. But doesn't the fact that these large municipalities, Berlin, Barcelona, Amsterdam, have to take associations in relation to the power of these companies, while at the same time the European Council is pushing ahead with such a notification procedure, which even eliminates democracy, not see that the European Council's position on the internal market is far too remote from what is needed locally and what should be democratically decided in the city council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u43	However, once again, the municipalities have room to adopt measures in special circumstances to regulate matters properly at local level, without being hindered in advance. We are committed to excluding zoning plans from a notification obligation. That's the Dutch position. Because if you were to notify zoning plans, that would indeed lead to a huge increase in the administrative burden on municipalities. We find that undesirable. There are also other possible improvements to the notification procedure, for example that it will be improved as a procedure and less bureaucratic. However, we must be careful not to remove such a central instrument from the internal market that ensures that no unjustified barriers are created, not simply by removing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u44	This is another technocratic response to a huge problem of local politicians and administrators. In Appingedam they wanted to protect the ordinary local entrepreneur. So they didn't want such a big block box on the outskirts of the municipality, in which a large department store would come that the entire village street would compete away. So they said, "You can't do that here; that's not the destination." That large department store goes to the European Court, and there it is forced to have that block box. That is what local democracy is no longer about. The rules of the internal market destroy democracy and its viability. I'm surprised the Prime Minister refuses to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u45	What Mrs. Leijten is doing now... Then I'd have to dive into that example. I'm gonna improvise now, too. In fact, I could imagine that from the planning plans you still have opportunities as a municipality to have views on what type of activity can be established there. It's not like a church has to accept everything. But the enormous economic growth that we have been able to experience in recent years in Europe also has to do with that level playing field and with those fair competition rules. They also make it possible to do that. If you're gonna protect that in advance, then... If you have reason to do so, for example with regard to public order or from the point of view of "what about your planning?', There are, of course, all kinds of possibilities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u46	This example of Appingedam has just been in the media. On the problem of reversing the notification, asking for prior authorisation, I had an earlier exchange of views with the Prime Minister. Each time I have said to him: local democracy must be able to decide what it wants, without the rules of the European internal market being prevented from doing so. He won't answer that. Does he really think that the internal market should go beyond local decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u47	But you can't say that. In a number of cases local decisions can indeed be taken without prejudice to the notification procedure and the Directive. What you just want to avoid is that weak-performing companies are supported by local government. Suppose that would be the desire to avoid normal competition. If you start, you will remove one of the cornerstones of the success of the European internal market. That has brought millions of jobs to us in the Netherlands, and that has brought us a great deal of prosperity in Europe. In fact, we want to strengthen this in the field of digital services and services. We know that if we do that smartly, we can add the size of the Dutch economy to the European economy twice more. So let's be careful not to throw away the baby with the bathwater. Mr Jetten proposes a European military force. That's what the cabinet's against. We are not in favour of that. We meet each other for a while, but at some point the fork goes two ways. Anyway, I can just imagine that at the next elections this will be a topic for different parties. We are seeking cooperation in every possible way, but we are opposed to the formation of a European military force, no more than there is a NATO army. But there is still a great deal of profit to be gained from cooperation in all areas, including Europe. Look at the permanent structured cooperation that has been established, the European Defence Fund, initiatives aimed at reducing existing capacity shortages and European defence cooperation. I think the more fundamental question... Well, we can agree to move it out for a while. In any case, we note that we are working together on a number of things that we do agree on. I recognize Mr Jetten's priorities to a large extent in the cabinet's priorities, except for the armed forces. I wouldn't be for that, but I'm for a lot of what he says. I would also like to say something about Wopke Hoekstra in Europe. There are two things at the moment, where Hoekstra does exactly what we agreed in the coalition. Firstly, the budget. We have said that this budget needs to be more modern. That means less money to all those classic posts and more money to innovation and all the things that lead to more economic growth. The Netherlands is currently one of the largest net contributors and we do not want to see that position deteriorate further. That's what we're focused on. We can't get all the way out of the graph. We're already one of the biggest net contributors. It is not surprising that we, as a very rich country, are such a net contributor, but if you accept the Commission's proposals one-on-one, we will become net contributor champions. That can't be explained anymore. So we want to keep that cap. You can do that through the spending ceiling or you can have a rebate. That's very sensitive again, because the British are leaving and so the rebate is leaving. How can you have a correction at an over-payment position? That whole debate is taking place and is really going to take some time. The Netherlands is not alone in that. Many countries in Europe are extremely critical of all kinds of aspects of the Commission's proposals: too little modernisation, we say, too expensive. But again, that is what many other countries say in both respects. And other countries say: too low a ceiling or too much modernisation. That's gonna be a real fight. Hoekstra, myself and also Blok are fighting that battle from the joint cabinet move. The second topic that Jetten refers to in the Hoekstra statements is that Macron once gave a speech in which he said: I want more stabilisation mechanisms in Europe. The Netherlands is against this, because we believe that countries should put their own things in order. Europe already has instruments if a country really gets into serious trouble. Look at the ESM. If a country is in trouble because of a natural disaster, there are also instruments. Look at the huge forest fires in Portugal. Then you can help each other. It's all possible. What you don't want is suddenly increasing WW expenditure or a sudden deterioration in the economy, which in many cases results from too few national reforms. That is why we were against those elements of the French President's proposals. By the way, we have been able to take over a great deal from that Sorbonne speech, but here was criticism. Still, we got out. Why? Because we said in those talks: the fundamental question is not how to deal with stabilisation, but the fundamental question is how to go back to the basic promise of the euro, namely that the euro will lead to more competitiveness and more competitiveness. When we agreed that this is a much more relevant discussion, in December, after the Eurogroup, we could make an agreement in the European Council to develop such an instrument. This instrument is aimed at strengthening European competitiveness, with a few preconditions. It must come under the European MFF, under the budget, it must be an instrument that is not aimed at stabilisation but at strengthening competitiveness, and it must be an instrument that has no other nutrition. Now, of course, people always tend to see that in the newspapers, to say: yes, but shouldn't there be a little stabilisation? No, it's not. There must be no stabilisation. Maybe you shouldn't use your own resources to do that? The Netherlands does not think so. We were against that. That's what we said. It's gotta be under the MFF. I still think we can manage to get there over the next few months. I do not know whether we are going to get June out of the eurogroup and the European Council on the basis of that December compromise. I fully agree with what Hoekstra said in the Financial Times: that countries should now say'maybe there should be stabilisation','maybe there should be own resources' and'maybe there should be sister or something', is all at your service, but the Netherlands is sticking to the compromise. And that doesn't only apply to the Netherlands. We sat there with a whole series of countries. It wasn't just the Netherlands against the rest; there were eight, nine, ten countries that joined together. At least we're sticking to it, and we think most of the other countries are doing the same. So countries need to know that if they want much more than that compromise, then there can be a problem when it comes to aid from the Netherlands, because that is not what we want. That is what our coalition agreement opposes, but also our philosophy. I think we can come out well if we don't let ourselves get crazy, and it's wise that Hoekstra should once again say: this was the idea. If people want more: at your service, but without the Netherlands. I understand that. That is not threatening a veto, because a veto means stopping something on your own, and in such a scenario many countries would be opposed. I do not think it will come to that, perhaps partly because we are now and then clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u48	The Prime Minister, like the Minister of Finance, is crystal clear, but in the euro area budget, despite the December agreement that the Prime Minister just mentioned, France and Germany are still trying to look at that euro area budget outside the multiannual budget, but above all at technical aspects of stabilisation. This will be discussed in June. A technical working group is already under way. My fear is that these two big countries want to continue on that train. A euro area budget cannot stop the Netherlands with a veto, because that is not the European Union. That would mean that the Netherlands, if we had to get in the way, would only be able to do so by vetoing the multiannual budget. Does the Prime Minister see an opportunity in June, when it can be discussed informally and formally afterwards, to make it clear that this euro area budget cannot be created outside the multiannual budget, and that the euro area budget itself, even if it is in it, cannot contain a stabilisation element?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u49	This was the December compromise, and we are sticking to it. So it's not that complicated. I do not want to say too many tough lyrics about it now either, because I notice that I think it is partly because of the interview with Hoekstra, that it was a good interview and that it was clear to everyone that we really meant it in December, and not just us, but also other countries. There is also a huge opportunity in what we have agreed. What we have agreed, namely the instruments to boost competitiveness, may also be at the heart of the reform of the whole system of structural and cohesion funds. Those are, of course, the big money flows in the MFF. That's where the hundreds of billions are. You want to modernise it. This could be a lever to modernise it. That may be some time in the future, but I really see huge opportunities in that compromise. That is why I am very motivated to make that happen. But it's in tight lines. And again, it's not the Netherlands against the rest. There's a whole group of countries that said, "Watch out. We don't want a stabilisation, not even through the back door. Countries have to stop their pants themselves. But we do want to see if we can come up with instruments to unlock more competitiveness. That is in all our interests."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u50	We're all following the media. We have also heard what Le Maire has said, not only about KLM, but also about the euro area budget in Bucharest. He actually called Hoekstra to order after his interview in the Financial Times. He says: in fact, the attitude of the Netherlands makes Europe weak towards China. So he's making it bigger and bigger after all. Macron's got a bit of a problem with that, too. Surely it is very worrying that France, supported by Germany, wants to continue on that train despite the December agreements? You understand that's a big problem, don't you? Then you can say 'we have that opinion and we had an agreement', but the others may be much less interested in it than you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u51	I'm not gonna respond to every interview of a finance minister in Europe. I am dealing with the decisions we take in the Eurogroup and then in the European Council. I have reason to believe that this is going in the right direction for the time being. Everyone makes statements, in campaigns and so on. There is also a style difference. A French minister will always take a somewhat larger canvas for his statements than a Dutch minister, and if a French president makes a speech, then there are 40 flags there and it goes with big bells and whistles. That is a very different rhetorical tradition than the Netherlands has. But you also have to look through that a little bit and then find out what you both really think. We've just made a proper compromise. The Netherlands will not renegotiate that compromise. That compromise is a good compromise. But we don't want to go any further either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u52	Finally. You cannot stop the euro area budget if a number of countries in the euro area want that budget. The Netherlands may not be able to participate itself, but if the rest of us want a euro area budget, the question is whether we should pay for it or not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u53	There's no way the rest of us want that. Really, that's purely theoretical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u54	Yes, but if Germany and France, supported by a number of other countries, still want the eurozone budget against the December agreements, then it is chief sache for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I share the optimism of the Prime Minister, who assumes it: a deal is a deal. But the reality may be that this is much less strong than it seems now. In any case, the Netherlands cannot stop a euro area budget if a number of euro area countries want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u55	It's really purely theoretical. That's why I don't want to make any statements about it, because then I'm going to respond to a "what if?'. These statements will then be taken over by the foreign press. Then it will be in the foreign media that Rutte has said: if this, then that! In that case, Mr Jetten could rightly blame me for shooting and barking at the moon. This is really messed up in the vaults. What Mr Hoekstra has done is quite right, because it is true that after such a compromise, you will always see that others have gone to the border for a moment. Then it would be very sensible for the Financial Times to say again in an international newspaper that we had a compromise, that we are in favour of it, that we are not going to renegotiate it, but beware, that it should not go on. Not only the Netherlands, but also other countries want this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u56	So you're holding on to that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u57	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u58	I would like to go back to the first part of the Prime Minister's response on this point, the size of the MFF, the multiannual budget, and the prioritisation within it. In my view, the Prime Minister was right to say that the Netherlands is not enthusiastic about a budget that is again fixed for seven years and in which we are mainly investing in the old economy, which is a lot of agricultural subsidies and so on, and that he does not like an increase in that budget either. I understand the Prime Minister's saying this. But what if the Prime Minister managed to make sure at the forthcoming summits and with the new European Commission that we are actually going to invest in the economy of the future, in climate change and in the migration approach, and we realise that this MFF is smaller than the previous one because of the economic crisis, would it not be wise if we were to give more money to the European Union in the next budget if the good things were done there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u59	The MFF is not smaller, which, in my opinion, is growing to 1,000 billion or more, I say by heart, at least in the Commission's proposals. But I must also abide by the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement provides for a further increase in the MFF, with the exception of what is indexed on the basis of the previous MFF. I would therefore have an argument with Mr Jetten, as chairman of the political group and as owner of a quarter of the coalition agreement, if I were to depart from that coalition agreement. I hurry to say here that I will not do this in advance. Then I have to wait and see if the group chairmen come to the cabinet with new instructions, because they can always amend the government agreement. However, I do not have the impression that this is the case with other parties at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u60	I can reassure the Prime Minister that we will not have a fight right away. But we also agreed in the coalition agreement that a number of very great challenges can only be met if we do so through European cooperation. My question is, therefore, above all: if it is now clear that, with a good prioritisation within the European Union, we are actually going to tackle these major challenges there, what will be the position of the Netherlands? Will we continue to say: no, by definition, no increase in the EU budget? Or is there room to talk about it, provided we can agree on the right priorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u61	The Netherlands does not so much say that the EU budget should go back to the old level, but you should be careful that the increase is limited. Eventually you will have to find a mix of a limitation of the rise and something of a correction mechanism, as the rebate falls away. Somewhere in that we must have the result that the Dutch net position does not deteriorate further. In fact, that is what we have always said. Somewhere in that triangle, we're gonna have to find it. That leaves room for modernisation, I think. I have to do so within the financial limits of the coalition agreement and there is zero euro in it for raising the net Dutch contribution. Then, of course, we have the question of transparency. On this point, I say to Mr Omtzigt, we are looking for cooperation with similar Member States, but also cooperation with the Council, Parliament and Commission, to make the legislative process more transparent and clear. This is also one of the three sub-objectives in the plus-one objective. The plus-one objective includes: how does the Union, the rule of law and democracy work? But this element is also included. The Council is discussing a proposal on greater transparency in so-called trilogues and, where possible, active disclosure of documents in the legislative process. As far as the cabinet is concerned, these discussions provide a long-awaited and desirable point of reference in order to have a substantial discussion on the modernisation of transparency policy. We also have an eye for greater transparency in the euro group. This is, of course, a special body which meets a little informally but which is very important. Given the critical attitude of Member States, it will be necessary to see whether steps can be taken in the short term to effectively improve transparency. A letter was sent on this point in January, in my view by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That has been the subject of debates. We're working along those lines right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u62	Then I have a question about the transparency of the Dutch cabinet towards the Chamber about the position of the Netherlands at various times in these European decision-making processes. Does the Prime Minister think that the cabinet is doing enough, or can it still be dealt with? Because we are having discussions about coordination in civil servants' clubs, in which the Netherlands occupies a position that was not previously shared with the Chamber. I don't think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u63	I don't think that's gonna be possible. Maybe there's an example? Then I'll be able to respond to that after the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u64	It's specifically about the Bee Guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u65	The what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u66	The Bee Guidance, the bees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u67	Ah, because sowing is buzzing. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u68	Exactly, the Prime Minister knows that bees need flowers, but not yet that they can do better without poison. That's what this is about. We have motions for a national ban on different types of poison. Since 2013, the cabinet has also been saying to the Chamber: no, we are not going to do that; we are going to do that in Europe with stricter scrutiny. It now appears that the proposal has been discussed in civil servants' committees for six years. If the Chamber asks what the position of the Netherlands is, we will not be able to clarify it. Does the Prime Minister think that's undesirable, too? The Chamber should be able to control what is being exchanged in this decision-making process, including at civil servants level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u69	Oh, so it's about... uh, uh, uh... uh, uh... uh... uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u70	Glyphosate is another poison we need to get rid of. This is about the Bee Guidance, the Bee Guideline. All the poison is dangerous to bees, but this is about neonicotinoids, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u71	I could, of course, answer this question; I cannot do that either. Let me make a deal that I'll see if...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u72	Whether Carolien is present in the room!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u73	Yeah, exactly. Carolien's in the hall! Yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u75	This is relevant, by the way. I fully agree that we have to take care of... It's about our nature. Mr Omtzig asked: is the Prime Minister prepared to open the treaties? I can only say that the cabinet does not think that this is desirable at the moment and that this is not the case at the moment. We are still in the process of exiting a Member State. That was and is not, in itself, going very fast. It is therefore especially important now to put one's own house in order and determine the future. I think we need to focus our energy on that and that opening the treaty is really opening up a huge can of worms, which we would not want. Let me now turn to the composition of the European Parliament after the British have left. When the UK has resigned, it no longer has the rights and obligations of a member of the Union. The UK will lose the current 73 seats in the European Parliament. This means that MEPs from the UK will have to resign from their duties. That's the communist opinio in Brussels with all legal experts. I know that, in my opinion, there have been reports from people who say that things are different, but this is what we are now basing ourselves on. I believe that the legal experts of the Council and the Commission do not disagree either, but I know that there is publicity from lawyers who say that it is more complicated. In the end, we must rely on the legal lawyers of the Council and the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u76	I would normally say: if Council and Commission legislators think so, then we understand, but leave the opinion to the European Parliament, in which those European parliamentarians sit, to say that they can sit. Can we expect, in the short term, a legal document stating that it is not? I would like to have the guarantee that they will leave a Brexit because otherwise we will end up in some sort of mess with the decisions in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u77	I shall return to the answer to this question in the second term. I have to see if we in the Netherlands can do something about it ourselves. This really seems to me to be a matter for the experts in Brussels. This is how we're told, but okay. As a Member State, I find it a little complicated to analyse European law and how it should work. In any case, your question is clear; it is noted, we are going to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you. These are the opinions The Institutional Consequences of a Hard Brexit. This was published in the European Parliament in May 2018. I'll just add it to the Acts in a moment, so we know what it's about. It is not the case that the Netherlands should do so alone; there are 12 other countries that have to deal with additional parliamentarians when the British are gone. They all have exactly the same problem: can we appoint additional parliamentarians? Both Ireland and France are currently working on emergency legislation to determine how they are doing with their electoral procedures. It can therefore be done together with those Member States. It would be nice to have a common position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u79	Yes, but the Netherlands is already ahead of that. If that's the point: for the Dutch three seats, we have already adopted a special law, see Staatsblad 2019, number 7. This law will only work if the UK is still a member of the European Union on 22 May. That was, of course, discussed in all relevant Chambers, including those for Foreign Affairs, and discussed in plenary on 15 November last year. That law provides the basis for the allocation of additional seats, i.e. from 26 to 29, at any time after 22 May. Suppose they take part in the elections, if after 30 June they also sit in the European Parliament that will be, I thought, first physically convened on 1 or 2 July, and suppose that those UK seats have been occupied there, then those three additional seats will be allocated immediately to the Netherlands as soon as the UK actually leaves and those UK seats expire. In this scenario it is then somewhere in August, September or October. So that's what we've been preparing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u80	I know that law. I went through it before I made this intervention. That law indeed assumes that all British MEPs will give up their seats immediately. If that's the case, there's no problem. The problem does arise when Britain first occupies those seats and then some of those parliamentarians or all 72 parliamentarians say: well, after the Brexit we are still sitting. A number of legal experts say that you have been elected on behalf of the entire European people, so you do not have to resign. That is what this opinion says. I know there are other opinions, but this happens to be the opinion of Parliament itself, and this is the specific situation. Can British parliamentarians be forced to resign or are additional agreements with Great Britain needed? It is very undesirable that after a Brexit a number of British MEPs should remain seated, so that those seats cannot be filled by the three elected for the Netherlands. I want this clear before the elections so that we know exactly who the three reserve members are after the elections. If these three reserve members are members of parties represented in the government, then everyone can shout: an attempt is being made here to help CDA and VVD parliamentarians! That's not the point. That is why I would like to make it clear before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u81	Okay, that they will mainly come from the CDA and the VVD, I don't know, but apart from that: Mr Omtzigt agrees with me, the Netherlands is prepared. Other countries are still working on emergency legislation, but that does not touch on Mr Omtzigt's key question. The key question is: can you force them to leave parliament? Can you stop them at the door and say: how nice that you are here, there is coffee here, but you will not sit down anymore, because your country is out of the Union. Our position is that that's how it goes. Verzigt says: yes, but there are also beliefs that it is different. I would like to be careful of making legal analyses as the Netherlands itself, so I would like to ask for official advice on how I will answer Mr Omtzig's question on that point during the break. Then the ECB. On this subject, I always have to start with the disclaimer that the ECB is independent in achieving the objectives of price stability. That is why we are very reluctant to comment on the ECB. Having said that, it is important to distinguish between the mandate that has been evaluated at the beginning of this century and the question of the effects of the different instruments they use. It's under continuous review. For example, ECB and central banks have examined impacts of ECB policy, for example from the refinancing operations in 2018 and 2019 and the buy-back programme of 2018. We believe that it is important as a cabinet to improve the understanding of monetary policy and instruments. That is why we welcome this type of evaluation, as is the case with the Central Planning Bureau, which is also looking at this kind of thing. As regards the implementation of the mandate of price stability, several central bank governors have indicated that an evaluation of the monetary strategy is appropriate at some point. They say: that could well be again if the ECB's policy is calmer. That also makes sense, given the great sensitivity of such an evaluation and the importance of predictability in a central bank. That is really something we, I think, should leave with the Governing Council of the ECB. The reduction targets work in such a way that we are not talking so much about 2030 in Europe now, but more about 2050, the long-term strategy. By 2020, the EU will have to take a decision on that year 2050, but indeed, in function of it, it will also have a view on the national contribution, the NDC. This means that the European Commission is working on this EU long-term climate strategy to ultimately ensure that the warming goes to 1.5 °C, in line with the Paris agreements. In the meantime, there has been a first discussion in the European Council in March on the climate target for 2050. That was that climate neutrality net neutral, because gross is never going to do it completely. But then you also have offsets. However, although we agree on that objective of climate neutrality, there is still no agreement on the date. Take that midcentury, so in 2050, but you know that this is not yet complete in Europe. And in June the subject will be on the Council's agenda again. Finland, Italy, Slovenia, France, Spain, Portugal, Denmark, Sweden, Belgium, Cyprus, Greece, Lithuania, Luxembourg and the Netherlands want the link to the year 2050. Other Member States are still considering their position. Then, of course, you have to talk about what, derived from it, then the target will be set for 2030. The Dutch commitment is also known and is in the coalition agreement, i.e. 55% before 2030. In the end, of course, this must be a cost-effective translation from the target 2050 to 2030, but the government agreement is clear on this. 55%, but it is also clear that in the end we are going to do what the European average is. And if that is beyond 55%, then we will try to raise the level of ambition with neighbouring countries, so that you get as much as possible in that direction. I don't know if all that works. All these conversations are, of course, ongoing and are to some extent still fairly preliminary, because the discussion is now mainly about the target for 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u82	It's a very clear story. We're going to go a little deeper into 2030. In 2019, the Netherlands will have to turn in a national energy and climate strategy in Brussels. We've turned in a provisional. Then there must be three things to that. The Netherlands must decide whether to reduce it by 40%, 45%, 55% or 49%. When will the Netherlands decide what the reduction target is? Two. The Netherlands must do a public consultation before then, so it must be published somewhere in the Netherlands and citizens must say what they think of these measures. Well, when are we gonna do that public consultation? And three. There needs to be another chapter on energy poverty, namely whether people can pay for energy bills. I would like to know when these three decisions will be taken in what order, because that deadline of the end of 2019, when that final climate plan is in Brussels, is simply fixed in the European agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u83	I'm going to give the political answer. I am not going to do the further precise timetable answer, because that really lies with the Minister for Climate Change. That must be done in debates with him. I will give the political answer: that is just the coalition agreement we are implementing. The coalition agreement is clear. There's the ambition of 55. We're planning on 49 for now. We're going to see what's happening at European level by 2030. If that's less than 55, we'll take it, be it that it needs to be translated into the Dutch target. You've got to get that translation done first. That 49 is also a translation of a European goal into a Dutch goal. We are now planning on a Dutch goal of 49. In the end, you have to translate the real European goal into a Dutch goal. That's what the coalition agreement says. If it is below 55 Europeans, then we will see if we have neighbouring countries, in order to avoid competitive disadvantage, we can try to boost that again. That's the deal. Anyway, that's just what the coalition agreement says. It's a well-known fact. Mr Omtzigt's questions go far beyond what I have prepared for and my portfolio. That seems to me to be a real issue between the Chamber and the Minister for Climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u84	Then I would ask you, as a government, simply to send it to the Chamber by letter. Climate is a pretty important issue. The Prime Minister is well informed. It would be good if we could get a letter in a week or two or three about what that process looks like. I'm just curious when these three decisions will be taken. Can we get a letter like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u85	I'm not going to make a commitment about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u86	Article 68 of the Constitution makes it quite clear. I'm just making an information request. I would simply like to receive a letter on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u87	My answer is also clear and I will stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u88	An overview of when the public consultation on these climate plans starts is requested here. To be honest, it seems to me to be a matter of decency that there is just a note on it with a timetable. I understand the Prime Minister doesn't have that right now. It would be useful if it were there in second term, but otherwise at least within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. This is outside the debate. I didn't prepare for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u90	I think the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is also reading the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u91	He could be sent this part of the report, right? I can send it to him myself, but I'm not making any promises right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr President, we would ask you to ensure that we have those three specific questions answered within a week or two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'll direct this section to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u94	I repeat, I didn't promise anything about it. That is what the report states. If I can, fine, but I'm not gonna promise anything I don't know if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u95	No, but it was a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u96	Fine. Then Mr Bishop, who asked about the term "ever closer union." I've told you before that's a bit of a dead term. To the extent that it would mean "the historical legality of the march of history that is constantly marching towards the convergence of the European Member States," that thought lies in the past. I would find it a real shame to bet political capital on removing such an empty sentence. That seems to me to be a real shame about our political capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you. To be honest, this answer was a bit expected. I would like to point out that this is indeed a kind of leitmotiv for case-law, through which certain agreements and agreements are interpreted, inter alia, by the European Court of Justice. This means that there will always be an interpretation in favour of the broadest possible operation of the European agreements. This is often at the expense of the sovereignty and autonomy of the Member States. That's why we keep hammering on this. That's why that phrase has to go away. This should not be a formulated objective. My request to the Minister is to use some of that great political capital he has built to achieve a reformed EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u98	That means opening the treaty. I have just replied to Mr Omtzig that we are not going to play a treaty change in Europe. The SGP is also a party that works on principle, but is also a bit pragmatic. If we are going to open the treaty, we are going to take great risks with each other, because what else is on the table and where does it all lead? We are in the middle of the UK exit and we are focusing on a workable agenda for the next five years. To decide now to demolish such a symbol from the treaty... Let us then agree that if there was a change in the Treaty at some point, we will record that this is an issue for the SGP and we will then be able to look further by then. Mr Bishop presented a legal argument. That could also be considered: is there a risk that it will be used in the Court as an argument? But I think it's really unwise right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u99	I follow the reasoning, among other things, which was explained by the Council of State a few years ago, namely that this is the effect of such a phrase. It serves as a kind of interpretation framework. The argument that then the treaty must be open... Yeah, we'll have to open the treaty, I realize that. But when you see that certain things in a treaty don't work as they are intended, isn't it logical that you look critically at such a treaty and want means to correct it? So not wanting to open the treaty is purely a matter of political will. So I would like to urge the Prime Minister to do exactly that and to make it more discussable in the circle of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u100	The cabinet has no intention of proposing treaty changes. What you could then agree is that, if it is at some point... At some point, of course, it will become inevitable. There will come a time when treaty change will become inevitable, sometime in the future. Then you really have to change things in the treaty to make it all up-to-date. And then this one comes back, I guess. But the cabinet is not now going to advocate the opening of the treaty and then bring in this one element. I'd really think that was crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u101	I still want to help Mr. Bishop a little bit. We do this more often with each other in Europe. We're not in favour of opening a treaty, either, but I understand the thought that lies behind Mr. Bishop. If you are talking about political capital, that political capital is naturally fed by support in the Netherlands, and that is extremely important. That support is being cut off at the moment when we would be calling from here for an enlargement of the Union. That is the fear Mr Bishop is trying to summarize and I support him in that, but I believe that the Prime Minister also supports him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u102	By the way, this article is not about enlargement of the Union. The ever closer union is the evocative ideal of what I call 'the inevitable march of history', which has been used by the Treaty of Rome. I think that over the past ten or fifteen years we have had a much more realistic view of Europe. I think that is also a factor for the enormous support base in the Netherlands now, that people say: it is not yet perfect; it is sometimes still a club looking for new tasks. Well, then as politicians we are there to say: no, you are focusing on a number of core tasks; we must do them right. What Mr Bishop says is a more interesting argument: there is also a legal risk to that sentence. Then I'd say we're taking two steps. Step one is, are you going to plead for treaty opening? I would really be against that, because that is going to bring enormous risks, when we now have bigger fish to fry in Europe. But at some point that treaty change may be inevitable, and when that moment comes, I find it interesting to have this cut. I would also be interested to hear further legal analyses on the risk of that phrase. But then you're really a few steps away. Then you're in for a treaty change, and I wouldn't argue for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u103	I really think it's such bullshit how the Prime Minister takes this off as something symbolic. It is used for many people in the European Union, but also for those who want to deepen it, precisely as: it is in the Treaty, so that is the only way. What if we talk about the plans for the future that are in place and all these scenarios for the future? Well, four of the five scenarios that have been outlined include, for example, Macron's scenario for the future, all of which require treaty changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u104	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u105	They all require treaty changes! What would be against having the next Dutch position? If we are going to work on that treaty, at least the phrase 'an ever closer European Union', the 'ever closer union', will come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u106	But even then you have to ask the question again, and then it is interesting to look again at Mr Bishop's legal analysis of the effect of that sentence. Because I do advocate that also in the scenario of treaty change... So that is not at all the issue, but let's say it ever comes up. In any case, Mrs Leijten agrees with me that we should not now call for a treaty amendment. So she does not support Mr Bishop. That's how I understand her question. What she does support, Mr Bishop, is that you should let this slide if there is to be a treaty change. I am not going to say here: then this is our priority. I'm not gonna say that. For that, we really need a more detailed analysis. In a situation of treaty change, as a country, we will have to look again at what we consider to be the priority to regulate: the removal of symbols or the proper regulation of things that we consider important in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u107	I'd be delighted if we had a new treaty. Then we'll arrange to meet in one place, because it can be done in a new treaty. Then we will ensure that the European Commission no longer has political power, and so does the VVD. Then we'll get this sentence out. Then we arrange that countries can opt for an active opt-out and let their own democracy speak. Then we start a partnership where we respect each other's differences. I didn't say anything about a future treaty or anything. I'd like to. I'll know the priorities. But I found the Prime Minister's rejection that there is no new treaty coming, because all the plans there are, from Juncker to Macron, require a new treaty because it cannot be done in the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u108	But none of these plans have the support of the majority of the Member States. In Macron's speech in the Sorbonne, there were six of the seven elements we support. In most cases, they do not ask for a treaty amendment at all. They call for an effective environmental policy, an effective policy towards international trade that is also fair, for an effective policy to tackle migration. This and external border surveillance and the future of the Schengen area are areas in which we work intensively together with the French. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a concern with Mr Omtzigt that now the Brexit, at least its settlement, would lead to a decreasing focus on the risks for a hard Brexit. That is not the case. We will continue to work hard on that. Then a question was asked by the VVD, by Mr Mulder, about the motion of the SGP, at least he uses it as an example. How can you separate enforcement tasks from the European Commission? Apart from the question of who asked that question, I'm going to answer it anyway. Part of the commitment to the informal summit in Romania, but also afterwards, is that the Commission can maintain as objectively as possible. The Netherlands considers that very important. This is also in line with the spirit of the motion tabled by the SGP on this subject. With regard to the euro, in September 2011, we advocated more independent monitoring of the maintenance of the Stability and Growth Pact. Then there was the whole issue of the internal market, the independence of the European Commissioner who oversees competition. The risk there is that a number of countries said: shouldn't you put that Commissioner in a little more politics? Fortunately, that position seems abandoned, but the Netherlands would have been very opposed to it. It is important that this is a Commissioner who can continue to do so independently. We will continue to look into better separation of tasks, which is also the case in the State of the Union. We're already working on that. Mr Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, also brought to the attention of the General Affairs Council in March a better separation between the Commission's tasks. I now find that where it says 'SGP' is meant the 'Stability and Growth Pact' and not the motion of the SGP. That's where the confusion is. With regard to the Stability and Growth Pact and Italy, I have just said what is happening. We want to have as much independent objective monitoring of compliance as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u109	Then the question is: is the Minister going to separate this from the Commission's tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u110	In Sibiu, one round is made, I'm guessing. I'm already glad to be able to serve our fantastic five plus one. I'm gonna take it in my long list and see how it fits. It remains our commitment to the agenda that we will set up in June. If we hang too many balls in a circle of 28 representatives, the main story won't come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u111	The Prime Minister is going to think and watch, but this is fundamental. This isn't a ball. This is about the euro, for example, about big Dutch interests. So I wouldn't think about it; I would just say it. Separation of enforcement duties is a fundamental Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u112	Yes, but I also want to answer honestly. Such a summit in Sibiu takes three hours. Everyone says one thing, maybe another round, and that's it. Then that statement comes, which hopefully we all don't freak out about. In the end, it's about June. That's where it has to be. I am going to look for the most effective way of getting these elements in, but I am not going to promise that I will say that by definition in May, because I also have to serve the whole state of the Union and the plus one. I'm gonna try. If it's possible, I'll do it. Maybe someone else is saying something about what I can hook up with. Let's see if we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mrs Leijten is getting really upset right now, I see, but I'm just gonna keep going. Mr. Chairman. Then there's one...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u115	I'd like to know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u116	I'm almost through, Mr. Chairman. But, yes, there have been very questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u117	Well, a personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u118	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Whether I'm out of line or not, that doesn't matter. I was joking with Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u119	Yeah, I noticed that, and I responded to that. Can the government focus on finding like-minded middlepowers and intensifying relations with those countries? At this moment you can see that we are seeking intensive contact with virtually all middlepowers. That's what we do internationally. Block has just been to Australia and Malaysia. Next week, he's going to Mexico. I was in Canada recently, in October. We are also seeking these contacts at all multilateral conferences such as the G20. There is also, of course, close contact with our colleagues in Europe. Then I come to Mr Mulder's other question: how do we actually build coalitions in Europe? It is important, with a pragmatic approach from the European Union's two core tasks of jobs and security, also with the departure of the United Kingdom, that a more etatistic, more state-oriented European Union threatens to seek allies, especially from the large Member States. That is what we are doing with France and Germany. I just mentioned the agenda that we complete with France. We also have a very intensive cooperation agenda with Germany. As we know, we also have our cooperation with the Baltic countries and the countries of the North. This now extends to Portugal, but also to Slovenia, Ireland and, of course, to the Benelux countries. This cooperation is important to ensure that, if necessary, we can counter the more ethatic movements. These are coalitions that are often thematic, which are structured thematic. Also look at what Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, is doing with regard to the future of the euro area. As far as the internal market is concerned, even 17 Member States have finally endorsed the Finnish initiative. This also includes the strengthening of the European postal network. Clingendael's report indeed, rather effective than empathetic, I would also say, at least shows that we are also effective. And wherever we can, we're empathic. You have to talk to each other in Europe. It does not make much sense to say: we find this and we do not move at all. For example, in the case of climate, migration, external border surveillance and the whole issue of the internal market, we are looking for compromises and bridges. It has actually started with the election of Macron in 2017. At that time, we noted that in terms of international trade and the internal market, the bridge between the Netherlands and France can also be the bridge within Europe between many positions. We have already been able to deal with them on a number of points. This shows that we are not only effective from a kind of own equal, but also from first seek to understand before wanting to be understood: understanding the position of the other trying to come to positions together. Yeah, that was one. Then Nord Stream 2. I shall not go into the campaign for the European Parliament that Mr Weber is conducting. The fact is that this project must meet the requirements of the internal market. An agreement on the Gas Directive was reached this spring. Germany is now the first move to look at this. The European Commission supervises this. The chickens and eggs in Ukraine are not on the agenda in Sibiu. Written questions have been asked about this. They'll be answered. That really goes beyond the scope of this debate. Then there is the extension of the mandate for the European Special Envoy for Religious Freedom. I agree with Mr Drost that we must stand up for common values, including the freedom of religion and belief. That is why, at European level, we have called for the mandate of this EU special envoy for freedom of religion and belief to be extended and strengthened. That is also in line with the appeal of the House of Representatives. In any case, the mandate has been secured until the end of this year. We will be committed to extending the mandate in the coming years. We ourselves have provided additional resources for the importance of freedom of religion and belief, including in the form of a Dutch special envoy for this purpose. In doing so, we respond to a similar appeal from this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of whether the freedom of workers causes Dutch workers to be replaced. Is that a risk? The free movement of persons is one of the pillars of European cooperation. Labour migration helps match supply and demand on the European labour market. It thus makes a substantial contribution to the European economy, both in the country of work and in the country of origin. In this context, it is also important that the upcoming European Commission keeps upward socio-economic convergence high on the agenda. This is also a way of preventing unbalanced flows of labour mobility. Important in this respect is the adopted Services Directive, which the previous cabinet has also worked hard on, which should ensure more equal pay in equal cases for equal professions in equal situations. Mr Jetten had a question on migration policy. The cabinet calls for this to be addressed in full at EU level. This is also set out in the national-wide migration agenda. As I have just said to Mr Jetten in connection with another interruption, we can see that it is extremely difficult in Europe to come up with common views on this issue. Mr Bishop asked about pulse fishing. It will not be on 9 May, but of course that is a very sad chapter in our debates here in recent months. Can I have said that here again? In fact, I would like to refer to what Mrs Schouten has all discussed with the Chamber, including the whole of the cabinet's commitment. We always do that across a broad front, including myself. We are never going to name exactly who did what, but that has been done widely, of course with Mrs Schouten in the lead. Now everything is aimed at reducing the impact as much as possible, but it will have consequences. Yesterday I also spoke with a pulse fisherman and his son on Neeltje Jans, the island at the Storm Flood barrier. During a visit to Zeeland, I also discussed the matter in depth. I have said that I am not going to make any promises, other than that we will continue to fight, but that we have lost this battle at the moment and now everything is aimed at reducing the damage as much as possible. But there's damage. There's real damage. I'm not gonna cover it up here. That's just the truth, I'm afraid. Your heart breaks when you talk to such an entrepreneur and see what a beautiful company he now needs to see to build into the law working.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u120	It is clear that Mrs Schouten, as Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, has worked very hard for this, but at a certain point in time the sector has also explicitly called on the Prime Minister at European level to put his full weight on it, which is a symbolic expression; you understand that, in order to do everything about it. The Prime Minister would help the sector if he could give some insight into exactly what has been done. That is actually the background to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u121	That's never gonna happen. The effectiveness of what we are doing in Europe will be reduced if I tell you who I spoke about when. But these big files are always wide open. That could be Wiebes in the field of climate. That could be Harbers in the field of migration. That could be Mrs Schouten in the field of pulse fishing. Then we all take the role with which we are most effective in the direction of the officials in which we have to do so. But I can never talk about it in public. I can't, because then the effectiveness is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u122	I thought you were almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u123	I've got a few things left. I had another question from Mr Van Rooijen, but I have already answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u124	Then I'll go to Mrs. Ouwehand, and then to Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u125	I have two questions on the provisional agreement between the European Commission and Ukraine. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? We have received several signals from the cabinet. Minister Schouten said I'm angry. When the Animal Party said earlier that things didn't look so good, Minister Kaag said she was fine with it. So, what does the Prime Minister think? Then there is the second point. The Prime Minister says it's not on this agenda. Here we come to the issue of information, because while there were parliamentary questions from the SP Group, the Netherlands agreed to this mandate at the level of officials in the Environment Committee. The Chamber wasn't informed about that. So you have to forgive me for using every moment to ask what the cabinet is going to do so that we are not too late to stop this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u126	Written questions have been asked and they will be answered. I'm really referring to that. I'm not gonna say anything else about that. No way. Moreover, this is a long way from the debate that will take place in Sibiu on 9 May. So I'm gonna stick with that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u127	Under normal working conditions, if we can trust that the Cabinet will inform the Chamber in time about when something is on the agenda or not, I would be satisfied with this answer. But we haven't seen that here either. Parliamentary questions were raised by the SP Group and, without notifying it to the Chamber, the Netherlands agreed to this mandate at the level of officials. Government parties are also angry about that. It just can't be. Or the Prime Minister should be able to say convincingly here: you will have the opportunity to speak on this; really, nothing is going to happen. But that must be very convincing. We really need to know that we will be well informed on time. Then my question remains as to what the Prime Minister thinks of that agreement, because several members of the cabinet have an opinion on it and those opinions are not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u128	I prepared myself for a debate on the informal Council in Sibiu. I have been informed about this issue. Questions have been put to the House in writing and they will be answered. I'm really referring to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u129	I'd like to come back to the pulse fishing. The European Parliament has now voted in favour of a ban, but the Council of Trade Union Ministers still has to agree to it. If I'm well informed, it'll happen in May. If you look at the agenda, you'll see that after the summit of May 9th, it's in Sibiu. So that offers opportunities. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to use the summit in Sibiu to ensure that this ban is simply wiped off the table in one way or another. Finally, the trade ministers still have to vote on it. And is he prepared to say, at the time of the ban, that we simply do not accept it and will not enforce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u130	We are, of course, working and working within the agreements within Europe on how decisions are taken and where they are made. That's the formal part. Sometimes unanimity decisions, sometimes majority decisions, sometimes QMV decisions, and there are trilogues. In addition, there is work behind the scenes. That is what Mr Bishop's question was about. He asked: what work is done behind the scenes and where do you do that? There is a loss of effectiveness when you talk about it in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u131	That may be so, but that is not an answer to my question. I believe that the time has come for the trade ministers to decide after the summit on 9 May. My question is therefore very specific: is the Prime Minister prepared to go to the summit on 9 May and ensure that the ban is removed? After all, the trade ministers have not yet voted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u132	This is actually the same question, but then repackaged, namely: what are you going to do informally? You can't say anything about that. If I'm going to tell you in public about what I'm trying to do by using political capital to achieve informal things, that's gone. Because then others are already gonna respond to that, like "he's gonna bring it up there" or "he's gonna call it up." Then the press immediately goes to the other person with the announcement "you get a call from" or "he's gonna do sister." Then the other guy's gonna have to commit to it right away. There's a lot of damage here. I am not going to give the impression that we can limit it to an important extent. It has been worked very hard by a lot of people, especially of course by Carola Schouten himself. I told you, I hate it. So let us not give the impression that with a very clever lobby we can still avoid serious damage. If we see possibilities that are really going to be a little more informal then we are going to take them, but I am not going to give rise to the expectation that this will also have an effect in advance. I think it is wrong to move towards a sector that has already received as much processing as we are now sending it into the forest with a vague promise. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u133	I got the impression that the Prime Minister was suggesting that he had answered my questions. He answered a question about Mr Jetten's eurozone and I also participated in that debate, but I had asked three questions that have not yet been answered. One: what's the score...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u134	I'll get to that. You didn't know what question I was asking. No, there was one question you had in this set, and I thought I answered it. But the rest of it's gonna be a big cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u135	Well, Mr. Van Rooijen, you're very sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u136	And rightly so. Mr Van Ojik's question on the French-German proposals, on the communication, was answered in an interrupting debate. Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen, who asked for further enlargement. Enlargement of the European Union is simply not on the agenda until 2025, because it is not conceivable who should join. The negotiations with Croatia took more than six years and then it took two more years for it to actually join. The process has only become stricter since then. So it depends very much on candidate countries themselves when accession is possible. They themselves bear responsibility for the pace of reform and the adoption of the acquis. That's what they have to do. Of course, there may be other decisions in the coming years, for example the opening of accession negotiations. So this is not about accession, it is about accession negotiations. That happens every year. Whether it be accession negotiations or admission, the Netherlands always has to be strict and fair. Enlargement of the Union between now and 2025 seems unlikely to me. Then there is the European Commissioner for Ageing. However important this issue is, ageing is not one of the issues that is currently being discussed. Mrs Leijten says you have a candidate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u137	You do indeed have a candidate: Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u138	Interesting that Mrs. Leijten is running for that post. It could be fantastic, but it should not be her, because the European Union must confine itself to its tasks, so I would meet her in front of me if I were to manage her. Ageing is not one of the priorities. Bringing this topic to the attention of course also depends on how things will turn out in the new college, but the Netherlands is not going to actively bet on this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u139	Have you answered all the questions put by Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u140	Yeah, I thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u141	Well, there's one more question, I think. Something about pensions; can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u142	Yes, in over two hours, there will be a press conference of President Macron, head of state, no head of government. He will announce that pensions will be increased, while here in the Netherlands, that is your position until today, pensions will be reduced according to current regulations. France has a large deficit and this makes it even greater. We are one of the richest countries in the world. Are you prepared to say today that you will take the discounts off the table? Then the sword of Damocles is over the negotiations off the table and discounts can no longer be used as crowbars to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u143	Yes, but what would the consequences of such a commitment be? People might be very happy right now and the 50PLUS polls would go down even further and my polls would go up, but what do you end up doing if you just agreed to do that? What do you achieve? We have a pot of money that we have to distribute properly across all generations. At the moment we have very low interest rates and we have yield problems, which threaten discounts later this year. The fact is that, if we were to succeed in concluding a pension agreement, we would very likely be able to avoid reductions to an important extent, because we would then be able to anticipate the new rules that will come into being. That is why it is very attractive to reach a pension agreement. But if you do what you're proposing, Mr. Van Rooijen, you've been Secretary of State for Finance yourself, I thought you'd be trying to run out the whole pension system, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u144	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u145	This is the Prime Minister's well-known debate trick to walk by somewhere completely. If you don't lower pensions, that's different from what Mr Rutte thinks. That's what this former Secretary of State knows. So what you said was just bullshit. If there is no pension agreement, the pensions will be reduced unless you are prepared to withdraw those discounts within one month with a general measure of administration. You are not doing that, and neither is the Minister for Social Affairs, because you are using that discount threat for 5 to 10 million Dutch people as a crowbar in the negotiations, so that you can say: if you make concessions to the cabinet, we are prepared to take the discounts off the table. I will not use words other than "sword of Damocles" and "crowbar," but you should not pretend to ask a strange question and say something about polls of 50PLUs or whatever. The interest rate is artificially low...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u147	And the returns are fantastic. They are on average 7% and more in recent years. Then you should not say that the returns are also moderate. The pots are packed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr. Van Rooijen, remember your heart. Calm down!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u149	I want to know from the Prime Minister if he's willing to take the discounts off the table, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u150	I really think Mr Van Rooijen is taking irresponsible risks with our pension system. We have to do our best to reach a pension agreement. All his stories about Damocles' swords and all the tactical and strategic considerations he suspects are wrong from A to Z. They're just not true. We are faced with a pension system that is outdated and with legislation that needs to be adapted. If we do that, it seems that we can avoid discounts in many cases, but then we have to make those agreements. That's not a sword of Damocles, that's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u151	Finally. The Prime Minister always says: I am not about that, it is a matter of social partners and pension fund management. He himself put on the table at night or late at night in November that, if an agreement were to be reached, the pension discounts would go away. First of all, he'll prove that he is. He shouldn't use those discounts to come to an agreement. He needs to get those discounts off the table before there's a negotiation. It would normally be possible to negotiate between equal parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u152	I refer to the previous answer. It's gonna be a repeat of moves. I think it's really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr. Van Rooijen, you have another...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u154	So you're saying no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u155	Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u156	Mr Van Rooijen has three assumptions in his question which are not correct and I am then forced to say yes or no. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u157	No, no, no. You're about to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yes. I'm gonna finish up. I would like to say to Mr Bishop that we are a great advocate of ambitious sustainability agreements and trade agreements with him, and that we are always sending that message. Finally, I would like to say something about the seats of the European Parliament in Mr Omtzigt's second term. I've given birth by now. I have been given an answer, but perhaps I have been given an answer. Mr Omtzigt referred to an opinion. We took a look at that. That is not an official position of the European Parliament. The opinion is not endorsed in other documents either. There is no institution in Europe based on the retention of UK MEPs after Brexit. The decision of the European Council in June last year provides for a redistribution of seats after the United Kingdom has retired. All Member States, including the UK, have agreed to this. On exit, the United Kingdom loses all rights and obligations on the basis of the Treaty and thus the European Parliament seats. In practical terms, these British MEPs will no longer receive any salary after exit, the passes will be blocked and so on. An additional legal advice is therefore really unnecessary here. Finally, on the bees in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u159	Yes, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u160	That was another question. We don't recognize that image. There is no difference between the position that the cabinet reports to the Chamber and the position that the Netherlands occupies in the Committee Committee SCOPAFF. The Netherlands considers the establishment of a European bee strategy to be of great importance. Minister Schouten sent a comprehensive letter in April. In addition, it shall inform the Chamber of the progress of the Committee through annotated agendas and reports of the Agriculture Council or through separate letters. The cabinet is therefore completely transparent in this respect. There would be a general discussion this week, but at the request of the House of Representatives it was moved. It will take place soon and I think that's the place to drill it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u161	Did you answer everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u162	I answered everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u163	You've read everything related to the bees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u164	These were the bees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u166	A quick question. It concerns the fundamental position of the cabinet on the right of information to the Chamber. Does the cabinet think that, if the Chamber asks what the position of the Netherlands is in this discussion, it should tell the cabinet how the discussion is going on in that civil servants' committee and what the Netherlands is doing there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u167	I am now reading here and, of course, I have been informed that Minister Schouten sent a comprehensive letter in April and that she also informs the Chamber through annotated agendas and reports of the Agriculture Council, but also through separate letters, of the progress made in that committee. The cabinet is therefore transparent in this respect. I don't have any more information right now, but it all seems to be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u168	Yes. Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u169	This is an illustration. The Minister for Agriculture says: I will inform you as soon as a proposal is ready for the vote and then I will tell you how the Netherlands will vote. But this process has been going on for six years and in those six years the proposal has been amended and the Netherlands has always held different positions at civil servants level compared to amended proposals. That's what I've been asking for, and I'm not getting that information. Does the Prime Minister think that is a good way of working between the Cabinet and the Chamber, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u170	I think it would be a good idea to forward that part of the short-term report to the Minister of Agriculture without my comment, other than having confidence that it was done properly from her department. If we forward that part of the short-term report, she can look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u171	Good. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u172	That's all I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u173	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds. How many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u174	Three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u175	Okay. I'd start with that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u176	That's what I was going to do. Nevertheless, thank you very much for the coaching. That's extremely cheerful, yes. We're usually talking about the price discussions at the other parties. Mr. Chairman. In that context. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the trends of globalisation, migration, flexibilisation and technologicalisation may put workers under pressure;]] [[Whereas our working middle class deserves to be more central to national and international policy;]] [[calls on the government, in its European stance, to give priority to the interests of workers over those of multinationals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1435]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u177	This motion is special for that completely unjustified frame that the VVD is trying to take away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u178	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u179	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that maintaining two meeting locations for the European Parliament is inefficient and has been dragging this issue for years;]] [[Whereas a majority of the European Parliament has voted in favour of a single seat for the European Parliament;]] [[calls on the government to speak at the informal summit in favour of ending the movement circus between Brussels and Strasbourg,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that technology companies make a lot of turnover in the Netherlands, but hardly pay any tax here;]] [[Whereas everyone must make a fair contribution to society;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to call for a levy on technology companies and to draw up a national levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u182	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr. Chairman. It is sometimes said that the debates here are always a bit for the stage. Today we could have really started the debate, but unfortunately that was not as good as possible among ourselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the survey of EenVandaag shows that more than 55% of Dutch people want the European Union to have less powers;]] [[noting that the only thing always on the agenda at European summits or Councils of Ministers is based on more rather than less organisation through the European Union;]] [[considers that it is necessary for a country which is a member of the European Union to be able to decide democratically that part of European cooperation does not fit or no longer fits properly and to opt for an "active opt-out";]] [[also considers that more flexible cooperation recognises that countries within the European Union differ and may differ;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the possibility that countries decide not to participate, no longer or temporarily, in cooperation previously decided upon,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the informal summit in Sibiu will be concluded with a final declaration drawn up by Romania, without further consultation with the House of Representatives;]] [[believes that this informal summit is seen as a guide to the new European Commission;]] [[considers that it is inappropriate to make directional plans for the future before people have been able to direct the future of European cooperation through elections;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that there is no final declaration and, should there be, not to sign it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1438]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Maeijer and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mrs Leijten, you are way past your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u185	Mr President, I would like to say one more thing, because the Prime Minister said here that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u186	No, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u187	... if municipalities do well, they fall outside the notification procedure...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u188	Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u189	That's not true. That was not answered in Parliamentary questions either. If municipalities rely on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u191	... they're at great risk...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u192	Mrs. Leijten, I'm just gonna talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u193	You can talk through it. You beat it to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u194	No, that's not true. You've had every opportunity to interrupt, just like everyone else. In fact, maybe a lot more. It's kept up to date. I don't think it's fair to the rest of the MPs either. You have no more rights than the rest of us. Everyone has the same speaking time. You too. I call Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, so I'm just gonna talk. I believe that the European Council is facing a very important period. I am referring not so much to the meeting on 9 May, in which, as the Prime Minister outlined, everyone will list their priorities in three hours, but more so at the meeting on 20 and 21 June. Then there have been elections, we know the new political relations and we can draw up a strategic agenda. GroenLinks welcomes the list of priorities, but in the end it is also about the instruments involved. That was my appeal to the Prime Minister on the rule of law. I am convinced that the Dutch government believes that the rule of law within the European Union is important, but we must also note that we do not have very many instruments at the moment to actually strengthen the guarantee of that rule of law. In view of the debate that we are about to have, I call on the Prime Minister to strengthen the priorities that the Netherlands will set for this strategic agenda with hard instruments, so that we can debate them next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u196	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I give the floor to Mr Jetten, who speaks on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u197	Mr. Chairman. On 9 May the Heads of Government will discuss informally what the priorities of the European Union should be in the coming years. On 23 May, we will be choosing a new European Parliament with each other, so we, as voters, can decide that we are going to move towards a stronger Europe, capable of meeting the challenges of our time, or that we, like the British, are going to opt for further isolation and isolation. Let me make it clear what D66 chooses. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply and his warm words, also for his commitment, not only to the climate, but also to the protection of our nature, our animal and plant species. As a back-up, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the international objectives of nature protection are not being met;]] [[Whereas protection of nature is one of the EU's priorities;]] [[whereas a UN summit will be held in Beijing in 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to ambitious and binding targets in Beijing so that the continued extinction of animal and plant species can be stopped,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u198	Mr. Chairman. There was just a brief interrupt debate on whether or not there were treaty changes. I call on the Prime Minister, if there is room for a treaty change, to make a massive effort, on behalf of the Netherlands, to make the Union more democratic, with, for example, a smaller Commission, the possibility of sending home ill-functioning Commissioners and a stronger European Parliament. Finally. Only 18% of young people in the Netherlands voted for the European Parliament at the last elections. It is a great shame, because Europe is crucial for the future of all those young people. I therefore call on the young people to vote on 23 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u199	Mr. Jetten, before you walk back to your seat, Mrs. Ouwehand would like to ask you a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u200	I do have a short question. D66 always wants to work together and so does the Party for Animals. I therefore ask Mr Jetten to take part in my motion calling for no new trade agreements to be concluded between the European Union and other countries if those countries do not respect the Paris climate agreement. As I know, this is in the new European election programme of D66, so it would be nice if we could table that motion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u201	I'm not going to co-sign motions from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u202	You guys usually walk up to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u203	As I said to Mrs Leijten: I am going to look very seriously at all the motions; point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u204	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, have no motions. I understand that they have already been submitted to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u206	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u207	Five plus one; that's something I'm going to take from this debate. It represents the defence of the values of our rule of law and the values of the European Union: freedom, equality, solidarity and peace. I think that's nice and I agree with the answers to our questions. On one point, as far as we are concerned, the answer was unclear. That was about the unified labour market. Without going into that further, because that is another dossier and it may not be directly on the agenda in Sibiu................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the moment when our people or people from other European countries are causing displacement, for example in our labour market, that should be a notion in Sibiu, and it should also be given to our colleagues in other countries of the Union. Finally, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for replying to the issue of EU Envoy Religious Freedom. It is good to hear that the mandate is secure until the end of this year. Our preference continues to be for a somewhat more continuous mandate from an EU envoy for religious freedom. Perhaps the Prime Minister can take this into account when further supporting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u208	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u209	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current European Union is under pressure due to increasing differences in the way Member States implement Union membership;]] [[Whereas, in the coming years, within the European Union, all efforts should be directed towards strengthening stability and effectiveness;]] [[Whereas the past has shown that the stability and effectiveness of the European Union are adversely affected by the accession of countries which have not yet reached acceptable levels within the Union in matters such as the rule of law, finance and political stability;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt within the European Council the position that no countries can join the European Union in the next five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the European Union, by 2020, more than one fifth of the population are over 65 years of age;]] [[Whereas the ageing of the population also calls for a targeted and coordinated approach at European level;]] [[calls on the government to promote the appointment of a Commissioner for Ageing in the new European Commission, within all appropriate bodies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Rooijen, Leijten and Bisschop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1441]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u210	I know my colleague as someone who is very opposed to European interference with things like pensions and all kinds of other things. What should this ageing commissioner do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u211	The ageing population in Europe is a large group. More than half of the population is over 50 and 20% are over 65. It is clear that such a large group, alongside other groups, requires attention in the health field and also in the area of mobility and other matters. It's not about pensions. That is a matter for the countries themselves. Of course, it is not about the AOW, but the ageing problem is much wider than, purely financial, AOW and pension. That is the thrust of my motion. It is also about health and living in a decent environment, particularly in southern Europe, where I am deeply concerned about the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u212	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u213	I'm a little confused, because there's just a Health Commissioner. What additional measure should a European Commissioner for Ageing prepare which Europe cannot now take?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u214	Then I have another question: do you have the impression that the Commissioner for Health is specifically concerned with the problems of the elderly? I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you. You have another motion and you have 15 seconds left. No, Mr. Ommzigt, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u216	Thank you for taking care of my heart. Don't worry. Finally, I have had many lively debates with the Prime Minister in this Chamber. This is probably the last debate. But I hope to debate in the Senate more often than just in the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u217	I'm confident that's gonna work out. Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. I'm gonna miss you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Oh, he didn't hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u218	Getting this from the president...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u219	You missed that, Mr. Van Rooijen!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u220	Mr. Van Rooijen, you are a privileged man. She said she's gonna miss you with a warm voice. Mr. Chairman. I'm restricting myself to a motion. I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister's considerations and have therefore adapted the operative part to his wishes so that he can give a positive opinion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both Article 1 of the Treaty on European Union and the preamble to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contain the phrase "an ever closer union" between the peoples of Europe;]] [[Whereas, partly on the basis of this phrase, European integration has been increasingly deepened, strengthened and accelerated, including by the case law of the European Court of Justice;]] [[Considering that countless citizens within the European Union do not feel at home in an EU as an ever closer union between peoples as this can contribute to an unnecessary and undesirable restriction of the sovereignty of Member States;]] [[Whereas the Scientific Council for Government Policy calls for greater scope for variation within the EU;]] [[further considering that the EU promised the United Kingdom on 23 June 2016 in the run-up to the Brexireféendum that the United Kingdom would no longer have to participate in further political integration;]] [[Whereas the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, has also repeatedly called on the EU to abandon its utopian dreams of ever closer integration;]] [[invites the Council to submit as soon as possible a draft revision of the Treaties to delete the phrase "an ever closer union" from the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u221	Thank you. Just to avoid a misunderstanding. I finished reading the motion with: "signed by Bishop/Leijten." It sounded like "bishop Leijten," but it's two names.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u222	I find that combination amazing, too. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the informal summit will discuss the future of the European Union;]] [[Considering that work on the dismantling of the nation state has been under way for many years by the Brussels urophils;]] [[Considering that the so-called reflection process following the referendum on Brexit and in the run-up to this meeting only resulted in proposals for more EU, such as giving up veto rights, a European labour market authority, extending the powers of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and an even larger multiannual budget;]] [[instructs the government, at this summit, to strongly oppose the establishment of a European superstate and never to agree to proposals leading to more European Union and less sovereignty for the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u224	Then my second, and final, motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Parliament has agreed to a ban on pulse fishing;]] [[Whereas the official decision has yet to be taken by the trade ministers in the Council;]] [[calls on the government to use the Sibiu Summit to remove the ban on pulse fishing and to indicate that the Netherlands will not maintain a possible future ban,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1445]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to call on the Prime Minister to imagine how all these poor animals are being transported throughout Europe in packed cattle wagons, if I should like to move the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that increasing production is still the only official objective of the European agricultural policy and that the taxpayer has to cover more than EUR 42 billion a year of subsidy;]] [[noting that intensive agriculture in the EU has caused significant damage to soil, water, climate, biodiversity and animal welfare;]] [[points out that the objective of agricultural policy should be the sustainable production of healthy food without adverse effects on animals, nature, climate and public health;]] [[points out that farmers should be able to earn a good living without structural subsidies;]] [[calls on the Government to promote these positions in all relevant European consultations, including at least the informal summit on the future of the European Union, and to act accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted the European Commission's commitment to trade agreements with countries such as Brazil and the United States;]] [[expresses the view that a trade agreement cannot be achieved unless the Paris climate agreement is respected by all the contracting parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a provisional agreement between the European Commission and Ukraine formalising the "unforeseen" import of chicken meat rather than restricting it;]] [[having noted that the Minister of LNV expressed her dissatisfaction with EU Agriculture Commissioner Hogan;]] [[Considering that the Council still has to agree to the outcome of the negotiations with Ukraine;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the increase in the quota for chicken meat from Ukraine at the forthcoming Councils, including the European Summit of 9 May,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1446]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1447]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1448]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u226	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I am pleased to see transparency on the European rankings. I urge the Prime Minister to insist that our proposal be included either on the list in Sibiu or on the list of 20 and 21 June. The answer to the Brexit was clear and we'll come back... maybe he can't say anything about it yet... to the question of whether we'll continue to prepare ourselves for a possible hard Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u227	I said that, but you weren't in the room at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u228	No, you can't!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u229	Mr President, I await it. Then there is the issue of the climate agreement and the national climate and energy plan. The Prime Minister passed the questions on to the Minister for Energy and Climate. I think it is very important, also for the rest of the Netherlands, to know when the decision is taken in the Netherlands to make this climate strategy, how climate poverty is dealt with and when public consultation begins. I look forward to that letter with great interest. I will come back to it at a later stage and say that I think that the European Central Bank should also examine its own strategy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u230	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Oh, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u231	Mr Omtzigt has no more speaking time, so I have to interrupt him now, because he would tell me something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u232	Ask me something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u233	Well, he was gonna answer me about the Spitzenkandidat Weber. It has said: if I become President of the European Commission, I will block Nord Stream. So I found it interesting to know if the CDA is going to help him with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u234	The CDA supports the new Gas Directive and the fact that there may be multiple users of Nord Stream 2. That is literally also in our election programme, which unfortunately I did not know literally by heart. "The so-called Nord Stream 2 is strategic and geopolitically not a smart move. It gives Russia the opportunity to play European countries against each other. The risk is that the pipeline will make Europe even more dependent on Russian gas supplies. The CDA wants the pipeline to be used by several suppliers and the pipeline to be subject to the same conditions as for pipelines between European countries." We're gonna be interested to see if Weber's gonna make it. I myself have noticed that more than two thirds of that pipeline is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u235	Finally, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u236	I thought I heard Mr Omtzigt say that he felt that several parties should use that pipeline. I agree. But I understand that Mr Weber says: we are going to block the construction, no, the use of that pipeline for construction is indeed too late. Those are two really different things. So my question was... Look, blocking Nord Stream 2 is one of the few election promises Mr Weber has made so far, as far as I know. It is quite important to know what the CDA thinks about this, because his party might well get big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u237	I told you where we are. I have also read Mr Weber's statements in such a way that he... Let's see what he writes. "That's why, if I became President of the Commission, I would use all the necessary legal instruments..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u238	Yeah, 'cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u239	"To stop Nord Stream 2." I can't wait to see if that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u240	Okay. Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of... You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u241	Luckily, no chicken questions about Ukraine, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u242	No. Thank you. We're suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u243	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u244	Mr. Chairman. No questions have been asked that require my answer, other than that I take due note of them and that they come back to points. I think I can also read Mr Van Ojik's comment in such a way that I do not have to respond to it now. I answered the point of Brexit in the first term. Then there's the motions. The first motion is a little bit of what went wrong in the TV debate. My second argument came out a little unpolished, as we have all seen, but I really think it is a false contradiction between the workers and the multinationals. I advise against this motion. We are in favour of a deeper and fairer market. This should take account of the interests of both employees and employers. That's not a counter-interest. A company like Tata Steel is an important, large company and 10,000 people work there. Yesterday, I opened Dow's headquarters in Terneuzen. That is, of course, a very large, internationally operating company, but that headquarters alone already provides employment for 1,100 people. I think it's a sham contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u245	A brief question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u246	Even if you thought it was a sham, you could be in favour of it. It says: Whereas the working middle class deserves to be more central to national and international policy. I'm not saying anything about the VVD. It's about the importance of the middle class. The middle class also benefits from the employment of companies such as Tata, but this is sometimes overlooked in the international discourse. I do not fully understand the conclusion of the Prime Minister's pre-opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u247	I would support a motion that would say 'the Chamber, heard the debate, believes that our working middle class should be at the heart of national and international policy'. That consideration will then become the verdict. The other observations and conclusions will then be deleted. That makes it a completely new motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u248	Would you also support it if the importance of this middle class should be given priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u249	What I really think is wrong... Funny enough, this is exactly where it went wrong in the final debate when I called Carolien: that is the point I wanted to make there. Eventually, I did it a little wrong there. Apparently not so good, 'cause it's coming back now. I understand that, by the way. This is exactly the point I wanted to make: it is a false contradiction. What Dijkhoff says in the play and what I feel is that these companies are not an end in themselves. It is not the case that a political party is an interest organisation of a company, of a trade union or of a particular social organisation. We're here for the common good. Those companies are part of the public interest if they do it right. If they don't do it right and they don't follow the rules, then we're against those companies. But here a kind of contradiction is constructed between a multinational and the interests of the employees. They're interlocked. If the multinational fails to comply with the law or unnecessarily pollutes the matter or does wrong in the Third World, then we will intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u250	Mr. Asscher, you are free to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u251	I wouldn't recommend it, but he's gonna do it, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u252	Thank you. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u253	It's a good thing this part of the TV debate is cleared up. Then the motion to part No. 1436, about those two meeting locations. I reject that motion simply because it requires treaty change. We are in total agreement on the content, but I think it is a real shame to discuss this in Sibiu, where we have so many other big fish to fry, even though it is not a possibility. I totally agree that this has to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u254	Please continue. Don't listen to Mrs Leijten!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u255	I see an interesting relationship developing in the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1437, on the charging of technology companies. As I said, a global tax is the preferred option. This is being worked on at OECD level. People are really getting steamed up. After the summer, we'll see where we stand. I find it crazy to work out a national tax first, and I do not want to interfere with the good work of one of the political parties who is preparing a legislative proposal. That wouldn't be right. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1437. The motion in part No. 1438 about not participating in the cooperation anymore or temporarily is a bit of an opt-out. That is not in Dutch interest. That's the first reason I betrayed her. Moreover, the Convention must also be adapted for this purpose, and there is no question of amending the Treaty. But apart from that formal argument, I do not think it is in the Dutch interest to promote an opt-out Union. Then the motion to part No. 1439. Look, this is an informal summit. It would be very strange if the Netherlands were to say: Romania should not try to reach some sort of final text. If there is any nonsense in that, of course we will not support that statement, but I really do not think that will happen. In other words, this motion is not enforceable either. I'm gonna say that right away. If the motion in part No. 1439 is accepted, then I cannot implement it, because if the Netherlands really is a fool if everyone agrees to a very vague, general declaration that is being adopted, and the Netherlands says: yes, but that is not allowed by the House of Representatives. I think that's really weird. Then we must have a debate, in the recess, just before the summit. I'm available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u256	That debate may well have to come. It's kind of crazy what the Prime Minister says. On the one hand he says: it's only three hours, I can actually only bring in a few topics; I don't want to go anymore. And at the same time he says: I have to be able to make my points right, so I don't want anything extra. Those important points, he must have all the room for it, and then the final statement of such a small consultation would only be a little bit of a stage? No, it's of great value, and so does the Prime Minister. We can also say: it is an informal summit without a final statement. Why does there always have to be a final statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u257	That is possible, but this is an informal summit, so that final declaration has no legal force whatsoever. It is not a conclusion of the European Council. It is a final statement from an informal summit. As a country, you're really embarrassed if you're supposed to say, "I can't sign her from the House of Representatives." I'm not going that far. I am going to say, on behalf of the Netherlands, that if there is no nonsense in that statement, I am going to say: fine. If there are weird things in it, then of course we are not going to do so and I will not be alone with that either. But I have no reason to accept that. So I think this is a really weird motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u258	You know what I find strange, Mr. Chairman? That the Prime Minister says he's a fool when his people's representatives find something. That is how it apparently works in the European Council: that House of Representatives and that national democracy, they are just a bit attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u259	Well, the House of Representatives doesn't find anything at all yet, because that still has to be seen in the votes, but I also advise against the motion for a resolution for that reason. I'm also saying she's not feasible. Then the motion to part No. 1440. Judgment Room. For short, perhaps, I would refer you to the debate we have had on this subject. The motion is in line with the government's commitment. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1441 is about the next five years. I advise against this motion. I have a double feeling about it, I'm telling you the truth. Look, the Netherlands has a policy of strict and fair. So, frankly, I find it odd to now argue for an unbiased no in all cases. It's not the expectation at all. If you look at the timetables that are currently in place for the coming years, then that is not going to happen at all. It is not real, but to record it now as a political fact from the Netherlands, I actually find it a bit anxious, in the sense that it is a bit fear politics. We just shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u260	Those are two motions by Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u261	The motion in part No. 1441 I advise against. And the motion in part No. 1442 I'll handle right away. I refer to the debate. I said a few things about this in the debate, so I would advise against this motion by referring to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u262	I was to a certain extent reassured by the Prime Minister that he said: it is not going to happen until 2025. In consultation with Mrs Leijten and Mr Bishop, I maintained the motion. I thought you were gonna give her judgment room, but you're gonna say, "I'm gonna dissuade her." This means that you do not rule out the possibility that an entrant might sneak in after all, and you will not oppose it in advance. So I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u263	No, I have outlined my expectation that no one will join in the coming years. That opportunity seems close to zero to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u264	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u265	But what is being done here is to adopt a political statement: it may not happen. Suppose a country, beyond all expectations, suddenly meets all the requirements of the acquis et cetera, then we will look very critically at that. We have a strict and fair policy like the Netherlands. To say in advance: for the next five years the door is closed, I find a very strange statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u266	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u267	Just the metaphor "to stand for a monkey." If that motion is adopted, the Chamber will make that clear, and you will say: I am a fool if I were to appeal to the House of Representatives, who thinks that there should be no new entrants. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u268	That "to stand for a fool" had to do with the final declaration of that informal summit. I didn't use that term here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u269	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u270	No. We're moving on, Mr. Van Rooijen, because your point has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u271	But I think that motion is really unwise. I think I should be able to say the same. Well, that's my part. You then decide what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u272	Please continue. Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u273	Then there's the motion in part No. 1443. I would like to refer to the debate we have had on this subject and advise against it, with reference to it. The motion in part No. 1444 I advise. This is all so vague and general. Of course, that's all you can do. The motion in part No. 1445 is about pulse fishing. I told you, I hate what happens to that pulse. We stay within the rules of the game. We want to do the maximum in there, but what this motion requires is just go counter empty. Of course, that's not possible at all. We're just a regular member of the club. If a decision is taken that we do not want, we must act according to the rules of the game and try to limit the damage as much as possible. That's what we're doing, but there's damage; I've already said it. Let's not give the impression that you can prevent that, unfortunately, no matter how bad. Then the motion to part No. 1446. The common agricultural policy is not on the agenda of this summit. Your Chamber speaks very regularly with Mrs Schouten, the Minister for Agriculture, about her mandate for the Dutch contribution to the Agriculture Council. I really think this motion belongs there. Moreover, there are things in it such as the first observation, which is already incorrect. So the motion is really rattling. Apart from that, I do not think it is a matter that should be dealt with at this summit. That is my view. I'm about to see what the Chamber thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u274	I'd like to give the Prime Minister an opportunity to assess all your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u275	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u276	Then you'll have a chance to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u277	Then the motion to part No. 1447. The Paris climate agreement is, of course, a very important consideration when concluding trade agreements, but it is not a basic condition. France itself, we, others will always be very critical of whether a country meets the climate objectives, but laying it down as a basic condition, I think, goes too far. From that point of view, I need the motion in part No. 1447. The motion in part No. 1448 is again about chicken meat from Ukraine. That's really not the point of 9 May. Then it is about the future of the Union and not about chicken meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u278	In the motion in part No. 1446 states that an increase in production is the only official objective of the European agricultural policy. If the Prime Minister denies that, I would ask him to review the Treaty of Lisbon for a moment and to come up with proof that that would not be the case. Then Ukraine. Once again, the Prime Minister says that it is not on the agenda of the forthcoming European summit, but I explicitly ask 'the forthcoming Councils', because we have seen that the Netherlands suddenly agreed to that mandate in the Environment Council without informing the Chamber. So I just want everything covered up. Wherever it could be mentioned, the Netherlands, as this motion asks, must oppose that agreement. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u279	I understood that, but I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u280	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-25-tweedekamer-9.u281	The motions tabled will be put to the vote in ten minutes.
