ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the CDA, for his question to the Minister for Finance, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the message that banks are massively committed to digitalization. I call Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The article in the Volkskrant of 13 June confirmed that banks are massively committed to digitalisation. I am not standing here because the CDA believes that this is a bad development; quite the contrary. We also see the advantages of products and techniques where we can pay with our watch or where we can easily open an account online. However, the group that cannot compete in the digital drive is very large. It is about the elderly, but it is also about the low-literate, the deaf and the visually impaired. These groups are much larger than the banks themselves imagine. I'll give you some numbers. 30% of bank customers still handle money business on paper and 40% of 75-plussers do not bank digitally, while banks make it look like almost their entire customer base is digitally banking. For example, ING claims that 99% of its customer contacts run via digital channels, but every time a mobile app is consulted it turns out to be counted as a customer contact. I have a number of questions for the Minister. How does the Minister view the development that banks seem to focus increasingly on digital customer contact and the digitalisation of payments? Isn't the financial incentive to digitize too great? Aren't there too many people out of the boat this way? I have listed a number of figures. The banks themselves also mention a number of figures. What source should the Minister say should be used for the correct figures? And aren't apples compared to pears here? Mr. Chairman. Another question is: does the Minister think it is important that people always have the right to human contact when they do business with companies, and also when they want to do similar business with a bank, for example if they want to receive old-fashioned bank statements? Finally, is the Minister talking about this with banks and with the various organisations, such as older people's associations? And what role does the Minister attach to the Social Dialogue Payment Traffic, the MOB, in this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. Thanks also to Mr Ronnes for the questions asked. It is clear that everyone must be able to continue to participate in society. This also means that everyone must be able to continue to participate in the field of payments. It is exactly as Mr Ronnes describes. On the one hand, the development towards electronic banking is, of course, a development that brings a lot of good to many citizens, because it is relatively fast, relatively efficient, relatively cheap and relatively safe. The art is right to ensure that there are also sufficient safeguards for those who do not or do not do so well. That's the assignment, you might say. That discussion is a bit like the discussion that the permanent Chamber of Finance and I have sometimes had about the great benefits of digital payments, but also about keeping cash, notes and coins in circulation. So, on Mr Ronnes' first question, I say that, of course, this development from the banks is not wrong at all; it is simply a question of balance, to ensure that everyone can continue to participate. The MOB, the social consultation on payment transactions, Mr Ronnes already referred to this point. I think you can say that this is a typical Dutch institute, because it brings together all the stakeholders. I myself am a member of the agenda, as it is so beautifully called. It's been investigated. By the way, another report has recently been published. I'll pass that on to the Chamber. It may have been published at the end of last week or this weekend, but I will at least send it to the Chamber. Previously, recommendations have been made on how we can continue to involve vulnerable people and groups in this issue. Mr. Chairman. What do you want me to do? I will at least draw attention to this again in the MOB. I will exchange with the Chamber what has recently emerged from the MOB. And I will also propose to the MOB that there should be periodic reports I do not know whether this should be done once a year or once every two years if this problem is getting smaller or bigger. This of course also depends on how the group develops, because the group from above 65 is becoming more and more digital, which also makes sense. Mr Ronnes' last question was about the figures and to what extent we compare apples with apples or apples with pears. I should come back to that in writing, because I cannot compare these two things as l'improviste.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the Minister says that he wants to monitor the balance sheet and that those who are not so skilled in customer contact with a bank via digital products also have the opportunity to keep access to their finances. However, I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks about the cost of keeping financial products accessible. The odds are that the fewer people who use the analogue products, the more expensive they become. Can't we somehow look at a kind of covenant form with the Dutch banks and see if we can set a certain ceiling on the cost of basic business, such as receiving a paper bank statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	What I want to say, and what I think is very Dutch and what also has to do with reason, is to indicate in that consultation that we must also ensure that this does not become a problem for this group of people in the long term. So I'd like to give you my word on that. What I find complicated, and I think that Mr Ronnes will be standing by my side, is to force banks now in advance to charge certain maximum rates, because then I will take a far-reaching approach and with that I will not necessarily help the consumer either. This is also not the case because we know with each other that payments, simply having a bank account, transferring money, are quite cheap in the Netherlands compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll keep following it critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Minister of Finance.
