ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u3	The main theme of the debate tonight is the Tax Plan for 2020. That's what we're gonna take off for almost 24 hours, if I see it right. But that name doesn't seem right to me. This isn't a plan. Making a plan means establishing: here we stand, that's where we want to go and that's how we get there. None of that is in the pieces that are now before us. This is not a plan, this is a shopping list: collect a little more here, collect a little more there; sweetener here, sweetener there. We tackle the small entrepreneurs by limiting the self-employed deduction. Family companies in the Westland and elsewhere we are going to destroy with a huge levy on storage of renewable energy. This brings us all together 150 billion; again a new record, the highest yield ever. While the citizen is being squeezed out, the structural weaknesses in our tax system are not being tackled at all. Officials are quietly studying what is called the "building blocks for a new tax system," but these building blocks have not even been baked yet. The laying of the first stone is, at the earliest, something for the next cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I do understand the slowness of the government's actions. There is no point in making plans for the tax system. There's no way we can carry out any new plans. The IRS can't do that. Years of bad governance destroyed that organization. If the Tax Office were a company, it would be bankrupt. Then I am not even talking about the malpractice of the recovery of surcharges. I'm talking about the old IRS, the one from the blue envelopes, which is about collecting taxes. Investigations such as those of the General Court of Auditors give an unheard-of picture. The Court always expresses itself neatly and writes about "hardy shortcomings" in two key areas of the service, information technology and personnel policy. The Court notes a complete lack of overview, insight and management of the overall package of ICT projects. In my opinion, this means that departments work side by side and the summit has no idea of the total. Half of the IT systems are outdated, so outdated that many systems can no longer be maintained at all. And the percentage of outdated systems is growing faster than efforts to reduce overdue maintenance. I find this unimaginable. Not only with IT, but also with people has been unheard ofly sloppy. Almost 5,000 experienced people have been sent away. This year another 3,000 newcomers were brought in. The goal is to recruit 2,000 more people next year. I estimate this destruction of human capital has cost 1 billion. Mr. Chairman. This misguided policy has been going on for years and has even failed to address it. In the Annual Plan 2020 of the Tax Administration itself, we read about Enterprise Tax System, an important system: "Due to delays in the delivery of a new system and the expiry of the maintenance contract of the old one, there are continuity risks." Old shoes are thus discarded before the new ones are fit. The solution is to extend the maintenance contract for the old system until the end of 2022. "Refreshing control" is called this approach. The level of ambition is much lower than in environmental policy. The Ministry's aim is to reduce late maintenance from 50% now to 39% by the end of next year. The aim is to get 39% behind! If we deal with all the infrastructure like that, I will no longer be able to drive over the Van Brienenoord bridge. In order to be able to control and control again, the Tax Administration started its Programme Management Information and Risk Management in 2018. How's that going? We read in the Tax Administration's plan: "Up-to-date and reliable management information will be part of the regular planning and control cycle by 2022 at the latest." In fact, I think it says: the top of the ministry has no idea what is going on. For the past two years, the tax authorities have been blind, and for the next two years, he has been blind. The Tax Administration writes, I quote: 'It will be a long time before most of the shortcomings and concerns identified by the Court of Auditors have been resolved'. This is insufferable. The Tax Administration has been destroyed and turned into a bureaucracy of woods, strings, elasticity and redundancy schemes. Even with the recovery plans now on the table, the service will not be repaired by the end of 2022. This means that we, the legislator, have and continue to have to deal with the political damage of mismanagement. We, the legislator, will be obstructed in our task in the coming years, and that is a serious matter, which calls for further steps than usual. We saw this in the Lower House as a result of the surcharge scandal. There some groups, including a government party, have even looked at ways of dealing with government officials and civil servants in criminal matters. This is absolutely not the intention of the Forum for Democracy. You don't fight mischief with criminal law. But I do want to get all the facts on the table. That's the job of this house. The Tax Administration is a large organisation with 30,000 employees and with a turnover of more than 150 billion. If a company of that size goes down, then there is mismanagement. This usually only reveals itself after a few years, so we learn from books about failing governance in large companies such as KPN, Ahold and ABN AMRO. The current Minister and Secretary of State are politically responsible, but they are not the ones to blame for this maladministration. They have been saddled with the problem by their predecessors. The Tax Administration collapsed under the previous Rutte Cabinets: under Minister of Finance Dijsselbloem and the State Secretary Weekers in Rutte I and Wiebes in Rutte II. These politicians are, through the cartel, a term that we sometimes use at the Forum for Democracy, especially in this context, which we do not look at the problems they have caused. It has recently been pleased to appoint Mr Dijsselbloem as Chairman of the Security Research Council. Nor have the State Secretarys been held politically responsible. That means we have to look deeper to find where it went wrong. It's not customary. Departments are run in normal times without political decision-making. That is a good thing, but if the Tax Administration is broken, we cannot speak of "normal times." We will then end up with the top officials who play a pivotal role between the govern ment and the administration. The secretary-general is responsible for the overall management of a department. And what's the coincidence? Exactly today, the deadline for candidates to register for the vacancy of secretary-general at the Ministry of Finance; salary scale 19, vacancy number 714. Among other things, the comprehensive job description reads: "You lead the development of the steering relationship between policy, implementation and supervision. This includes the governance of the Tax Administration, where the core department and the Tax Administration cooperate effectively from their own roles and responsibilities." Comments can be sent by email to the General Administration Department at the Ministry of the Interior. The country is looking forward to the new man or woman who will make sure that the department and the tax authorities work together again. But looking back, we cannot see the departure of the current Secretary-General as an indication that she is held responsible for the failing administration of the Tax Administration. Secretary-General shall be appointed to a ministry for a maximum of seven years. After that period, function changes take place. The current sg has spent more than six years at Finance and it has pleased this cabinet to appoint it as a member of the Board of the Authority for Consumer & Market. We must therefore continue to look for who is responsible for destroying the Tax Administration. Its direct management is with the Director-General. The current Director-General was appointed to that post on 1 January 2017. He's like the incumbent rulers with the problems. His predecessor seemed to leave with an absurd departure scheme because of the chaotic reorganisation. But is he held responsible? Apparently not, because it has pleased the Cabinet to appoint him President of the Marechaussee. Mr. Chairman. There is huge administrative failure, but no one is held responsible. It can't be. You can't reorganise an organization if it's not clear who did what wrong first. That is why it is unimaginable in business that an organisation should perish without intervention in the summit. As I said, unlike some colleagues in the House of Representatives, I am not looking for criminal sanctions. I'm looking for the causes of organizational failure, because if we don't know it, recovery is not possible. To find the causes, we need to talk about people. The government's accounting department has been asked to examine the principles of the new top structure of the Tax Administration. The Secretary of State has said: The audit by the Auditor's Office Rijk must provide key points for strengthening interventions at the management level. That's right, it's about people. If we want to have another civil service that we can be proud of, then we need to look closely at how and by whom the people are appointed. It has been chosen to allow all senior officials to be employed by the Home Office and to have them rotated over ministries and executive services. For example, a wheel has been turned for people who perform the highest official functions. That wheel's been spinning for 25 years, and nobody ever falls off. It seems time to look at this model of governance again, because administrative problems are not just a matter for the Tax Administration. The whole government is struggling with the complicated society. The abundance of regulation reflects first of all back to poorly managed implementation organisations, from police to tax authorities. The House of Representatives has already said that it wants to investigate the problems of all major implementation organisations. A number of ministries have worked together on a joint task and in April next year "possible directions for solutions" are expected. I would like to contribute to this search for directions for solutions. I agree with the CDA, which has asked the Cabinet in writing whether it sees reason to change the rotation policy for top officials in relation to the Tax Administration. The cabinet's answer was no. However, I would like to ask something similar: does the government also want to involve the functioning of the General Administrative Service in the ongoing investigation into the problems of implementing organisations? It is headhunter for and supplier of the highest officials, the people who run the Netherlands without bearing political responsibility. Then I have four substantive questions about what is called the Tax Plan 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u4	Does Mr Frentrop agree with me that we are talking here with political leaders? In this case, we are talking to the Secretary of State for Finance, who bears the political responsibility for the Tax Administration. In his speech, top officials are passing by, recognizable by name, who cannot defend themselves here in this Chamber. Does Mr Frentrop therefore agree with me that it would be chic to confine ourselves to addressing the politically responsible, in this case the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u5	I fully agree with Mr Vendrik. That's the usual way of doing things. I have outlined that this is a very special situation. I hope that Mr Vendrik agrees with me, because something huge has gone wrong here and nobody has been held politically responsible for it. That is why I am asking the now politically responsible for an investigation to answer the question of how things could have gone wrong. I think that's the job of this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u6	That can indeed also be the task of this House of First Instance. But once again, we agree that it is wise to avoid accusations towards individual top officials in the political debate. Whatever they have done or failed to do, it is always up to the rulers and the rulers only to answer for the doing and leaving of officials. So we do not directly address them, not here and not in the House of Representatives. That's not how we do it. They can't defend themselves here. I hope that Mr Frentrop agrees with me. It is a use which my group very much appreciates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u7	I'd like to join that, Mr. Frentrop. Perhaps you can take that into account in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u8	I fully agree with Mr Vendrik. I don't want to talk to top officials in person. I would like to pay attention to the system and the way in which top officials are appointed and rotated. I have four more substantive questions on what is called the Tax Plan 2020. The first is that I have already asked the Secretary of State at the General Financial Reviews to abandon the miserable idea of imposing an additional 450 million annual burden on self-employed people without staff, which is bad for the economy. Here again a final attempt. Second. I also asked him to acknowledge that the injustices contained in the capital efficiency levy cannot be eliminated in a budget-neutral way. I couldn't convince him. However, in the preliminary consultation, the Secretary of State made a commitment to allow the trial procedures at the European Court of Human Rights to lead all citizens affected. However, if I have read it correctly, in the written reply of the State Secretary, the scope of the commitment is limited to the years 2013 and 2014. These are explicitly mentioned. However, the old system of box 3 also applied for the years 2015 and 2016. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State for an explicit answer on whether the years 2015 and 2016 are also covered by his commitment. The third question. The government does not realise how much the storage of renewable energy charges is disproportionate to certain small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, the government is destroying fantastic family farms in the flowering sector. I ask the government to consider this while it still can. Finally, a call for reflection. This concerns the proposal for the disclosure of criminal penalties by tax advisers. No one likes tax advisors who go wrong. But the free-running killer of Pim Fortuyn is referred to in the newspapers as Volkert van der G. The murderer of Theo van Gogh is called Mohammed B. Names of convicted sex offenders are carefully kept secret. In many crimes, even the ethnicity of the perpetrators is terrifiedly withheld. If, in addition to their punishment, the advisors who have helped in tax evasion are also publicly accused, the government does not have its priorities in place in the eyes of the Forum for Democracy. To sum up: No serious tax plan 2020 has been made. Nor can serious tax plans be expected for 2021 and 2022 because the Tax Administration has been destroyed. But we don't know who did it and why that happened. The poet Vergilius once wrote, a long time ago, "Happy is he who has come to know the causes of things." This house isn't ready yet. It is therefore high time that the government removed structural deficiencies in the political direction of the government top under the carpet and put them back on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're dealing with eight legislative proposals today. I can well imagine that in his speech Mr Frentrop did not want and could not give attention to all eight legislative proposals. I'm not gonna do that myself. I have a question about a bill he has not mentioned, namely the bill to introduce a conditional withholding tax by 2020. In the House of Representatives, the Forum for Democracy was the only party to vote against it. I wonder if Mr Frentrop's group in the First Chamber intends to follow that same line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u11	Yes, we will, of course, see that, depending on the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u12	As Mr Frentrop has not asked a question about it, I am curious about his position. What does he expect as a result of the debate? We know Forum for Democracy as a party that likes to stand up for the purchasing power of the middle class, who likes to restrict immigration and who also likes to spare the strongest shoulders, as we learned last month during the General Financial Reviews. Does the Forum for Democracy also like to avoid tax evasion and the Zuidas industry around it? What's possibly behind that? Or is Mr Frentrop completely open in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u13	I can reassure the questioner: we do not keep tax avoidance at the Forum for Democracy. I don't think anyone in this house. But for the precise voting behaviour we have to wait and see what is said in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u14	I am simply curious to see what the considerations might be for the Forum Group in the Senate to vote against the law. The law is designed to prevent tax avoidance. I actually hear him saying that maybe it could have gone further. Does the Forum for Democracy consider that this is not the case? What could be a reason to vote against the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u15	Once again, there are, of course, a lot of laws with good intentions, but which you can still vote against. It's not just about the purpose of the law. Almost every law has a good intention. There are many laws with very good intentions that we will vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr Frentrop. I call Mr Ester, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr President. My congratulations to Mrs Geerdink for her maiden speech. The 2020 Tax Plan estimates next year's tax revenue at over 300 billion. An impressive amount, but the Netherlands gets a relatively high and broad prosperity for that. Tax regulations and subsidies redistribute some 110 billion. The 2020 Tax Plan is also comprehensive in terms of legislation. There are no less than eight legislative proposals ahead of us. The time to judge them is too short. It's too tight. The quality of our parliamentary judgment is at stake here. I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State what concrete possibilities, with a line under 'concrete' conditions, he sees to spread tax legislation more over the year from next year on. Mr. Chairman. The purchasing power tags, for what they're worth, are all in the plus. There are differences, but they are rather after than before the comma. The income inequality doesn't dissipate. The marginal pressure is decreasing for almost all incomes. The peak load in there is also decreasing. We see that by turning tax buttons the middle class will now also benefit. That is a good thing. The substantial increase in the labour cut has positive purchasing power effects, but it also causes structural inequality between one and two earners. In 2021, the additional increase represents a structural increase of 2.15 billion. This discount was once intended to promote labour market participation. At the request of the Christian Union, the Secretary of State had a note made on how effective this discount is still to promote paid labour. There is evidence from CPB studies that the reduction in working hours has become too severe as a generic incentive to lead more people into the labour market. Isn't that the key to closing the gap between one- and two-earners? What is the added value of an employment discount at a time when unemployment is low? The employment rate is almost maximum. As a result of this argument, the gradual abolition of the general tax rebate for a non-earning partner has been poured into concrete, I ask the Secretary of State. The members of the Christian Union Group see that the government is working on not increasing the differences between one and two earners. Does the cabinet still have the ambition to close the gap itself? At the request of the House of Representatives, a study was carried out on marginal pressure and earners. How do the results of this work fit in with this ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u18	Following on from Mr Ester's speech, I would like to ask a question about the reduction in working hours. You referred to the CPB and said the drug might get a little blunt. You also said it led to different treatment between single and double households. Do you also recognise that it has led to a dramatic difference and continues to lead to a difference between workers and not more workers? In 2021, workers will receive a net working discount of up to €4,200 and older people will receive an elderly discount of only €1,600.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u19	I understand very well why you say that, I say to you through the President. I just wanted to limit the playing field, not to one- and two-person households, but to one- and two-earners within a household. I would like to note that there are other groups that are also affected by the labour discount, but I would like to limit the battle, so to speak, to the one and two earners. We've talked about that a lot. You yourself have often participated in this debate. I would now like to try a different way, through the approach of the employment discount. I don't think it's nearly as effective as we used to think it is. Maybe that's your argument, too. The employment discount has become too blunt and too general. It does not draw the people across the line that the cabinet might wish to cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u20	You're right to say I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr. Van Rooijen, would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that we have the same criticism of the phenomenon of the reduction in working hours leading to different treatment of one and two earners. We agree on that. However, I understand from your answer that you are not so much...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Van Rooijen, would you like to speak to the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u24	Yes, but I'm intrigued by the consensus we're showing here. But I'll share that through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mr. Van Rooijen, the use in the Chamber is to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I've been told that for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u27	If it is possible, I would kindly ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you have to be quiet about something. The reduction in working hours leads to different treatment of workers and non-employed persons. I hear in this speech that we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u29	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u30	My group has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to taxpayers who lack the skills to make their declarations digitally or electronically and to communicate digitally with the Tax Administration. We are therefore pleased that the option of non-electronic communication with the Tax Administration is now being laid down by law. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that taxpayers who opt for the non-digital variant are equally well helped? Is that locked up somehow, that's how I want to ask him. It is hard for savers to understand that their credit is not taxed on the basis of real returns. The Secretary of State states that a review of box 3 is only possible in 2022, after earlier repair work in 2017. In the intervening years, can there not be more coulance towards the saver, also in view of the ruling of the Supreme Court? The CDA earlier came up with the idea of temporary threshold exemptions. Can't the Secretary of State think a little more creatively on this point? It continues to happen a little bit. I apologize as a tax harassment of benevolent savers. The self-employed deduction just came by. This will be reduced in nine annual steps from €7.280 to €5,000. Structurally, this is worth about 450 million euros. This reduction will be compensated by an increase in the labour cut and the general tax cut, which will cost 1.5 billion euros next year and will rise structurally to almost 2.8 billion euros. Does this tax choice mean that the cabinet deliberately reduces the distinction between self-employed and employee, and that between self-employed and entrepreneur? If that is a choice, this tax choice has been made with knowledge of the interim conclusions of the Borstlap Committee, so I would ask. Mr. Chairman. The ChristianUnion Group can live well with the strategic commitment of the landlord levy to create more new buildings of affordable rentals, especially in scarcity areas. This tax rebate is allocated 100 million. The question is how structural this discount can be, as many argue that the landlord levy is approaching the end of its existence. My party recognizes itself in the arguments for this. As was the case for the employment discount, the landlord levy had a very specific objective when it was conceived in 2013. It was primarily intended to relieve public finances during the past few years of crisis. As with tax incentives more often, this original objective has disappeared into the background. The question then is how stable the new deployment of the landlord levy can be. With a new cabinet formation, it could just die. Shouldn't we provide housing corporations with more security? Do they want to take the investment glove? This Tax Plan gives hands and feet to the tax impact of the energy transition. Two preliminary remarks. First of all, it is a pity that a CO levy is not yet part of this Tax Plan. Can the Secretary of State outline what the timetable is now? When will a proposal reach this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u31	I hear Mr Ester talking about the landlord levy. That argument sounds like music to me. Some of the points he makes will be made in my own contribution. He preludes to a next cabinet formation in which the landlord's tax could well be killed. Let's hope so, but does Mr Ester also see opportunities within the current cabinet and within the time limit for the new elections to do something about this? I am not talking about abolishing the landlord's tax, because I do not see that happening, but perhaps there are ways of alleviating the tax burden on housing corporations. Does Mr Ester see any possibility of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u32	That is a very special issue, which I would like to think about. I would like, through the chairman, to ask the Secretary of State to respond. The thrust of my speech is that the use of the landlord's levy is just too fast. For housing corporations, this is a hugely important signal to be able to build new buildings, but then we must also be able to provide them with an investment picture that lasts for a number of years. They will not invest if something is done to the landlord's tax once. We must also be able to offer some certainty in the long term. I'm looking for roads, perhaps together with the two gentlemen who stand opposite me or... Sit down. We can see what we can think of together for that. Given this huge task of new construction, I fear that the incentive is too weak and offers too little certainty in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u33	I look forward to Mr Ester's further thinking. Maybe the Secretary of State can respond to that, too. I agree with the analysis that the need is high and that we need a greater incentive, structural towards the future and also over this cabinet. I wonder whether Mr Ester can go along with the idea that we could also do something in the shorter term. At least that is what Mr Ester is now expecting to say that the landlord's tax is due in the long term because it has had its best time. Let's hope so. That expectation may be shared by the corporations, but perhaps it is not. But if they could already get an incentive in the form of a relief from the landlord's tax, that would also matter. We should therefore take a serious look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr Ester referred to a point about a CO levy. I always clean up when I hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u36	Sorry, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u37	It always makes me feel better. But what exactly does Mr Ester mean? You have CO taxes in all kinds and sizes. We have the ETS, we have wide charges and flat charges and charges on the margin. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u38	That is, of course, the ultimate question. That is, of course, the question behind my question. There is not one CO levy, but there are many. They can be very general or very specific, and all kinds of variants. But, left or right, we don't find that in the Tax Plan. I challenge the Secretary of State to tell us, including you, what the state of affairs is and what the thoughts are on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u39	Then I guess the Secretary of State is going to tell us tomorrow that the bill with this marginal CO tax for large consumption and the industry is coming up, that we already have an ETS and that the Minister for Economic Affairs in Europe is trying to tighten the screws. All good. Period. But what else is to be done? I'm so curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u40	You want to have different alternatives and weigh them against each other. We agree that you can do that CO tax in a lot of ways. So I'm just gonna sit back and wait and see what that alternative weighing looks like. And then we will consider it and take a stand. But I have no need to make very tough statements about what we see as the ultimate CO levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u41	Perhaps I would like to try one suggestion: a good CO levy in agriculture? Because nothing's happening there yet. Is that negotiable for the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u42	That was the third one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u43	There are no things that are unspeakable. That suggestion should be added to that list. But Mr. Vendrik's question also applies to that. Because that CO levy can also be shaped in 94 different ways. So an answer from me to the question of what to do doesn't say that much. That's not because I don't give good answers, but because there are as many different alternatives as possible. Mr President, may I continue? Secondly, there is the lack of public transport policy. That's remarkable, isn't it? The sector can make an important contribution to the Climate Agreement and the energy transition. How does the Secretary of State see us here in the Chamber of Reflection, the relationship between the Climate Agreement, public transport and the tax authorities? Shouldn't this be given fundamental consideration? In his view, does taxation have a significant role to play at all? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State could really use my next sentence. That is to say: the congratulations of the Christian Union Group to the Secretary of State for his European efforts in the field of flight tax. Chapeau. It's about time. The Secretary of State has acted on this and we're very curious how it's gonna end. Eventually, flying is just too cheap and it must be discouraged, even fiscally. Can the Secretary of State share with us the commitments made between and with the nine EU countries concerned? How can such a flight load be designed? What does he see as the follow-up? And a related question is whether he fears the right of veto that individual Member States have in the decision-making process. Mr. Chairman. Car taxes play a major role in the energy transition. Electric driving is fiscally encouraged and, at least in terms of climate objectives, there is a need for this. But the recent report by the General Court of Auditors on car taxes does not make it very cheerful. Tax incentives are not consistently pointing in the same direction, as the Court of Auditors' report says. There is a web of tariff discounts, exemptions, refund schemes and reduced rates that do not all stimulate climate-friendly behaviour. Is it not time, as my group is asking, to reconsider the system of car taxes and to keep them under review? How do we find a balance between generating general car tax revenues........................................................................................................................................................................................... How's the Secretary of State handling this split? Mr. Chairman. The ChristianUnion Group is pleased that the cabinet is committed to reducing the tax portion of the energy account for households. It amounts to almost EUR 1.7 billion in structural terms as a result of the adjustment of the energy tax and the storage of renewable energy, the ODE. The fifty-fifty-cost ratio in the rates is converted to two thirds of business and one third of households. My group agrees with this and calls for the micro-level energy bill to be as transparent as possible for consumers, so that households and consumers actually know the financial consequences of energy choices made. Mr. Chairman. None of us have noticed that in recent days greenhouse horticulture has strongly resisted the new tariff system. How does the Secretary of State assess the arguments of the sector? How does the significant increase in the ODE tariff for the sector relate to the Climate Agreement and the intended energy transition? Isn't he afraid of a possible fallback to fossil fuels? The Secretary of State has undertaken to monitor the impact of the tariff increase on greenhouse horticulture. That sounds very brave, but to be honest, it's also a little skinny. Is there any possibility for the Secretary of State to take a tipping point in following the tariff impact on the basis of which he will intervene in the tariff setting? Can he share his thoughts with us at that point? Mr. Chairman. In the context of the Urgendavonnis, foreign waste will be included in the calculation of the waste tax. The Netherlands imports a quarter of the waste we burn here. The presentation of this point in the relevant bill suggests a bit that this adjustment is the only tightening up in the Tax Plan due to this verdict. Is this observation correct or did I misread it? If she's right, what's the reason for that fairly one-sided tightening? Is this adjustment really going to make the difference to do justice to the Urgenda ruling? The Christian Union Group is pleased that this cabinet is now actively fighting tax avoidance. The Netherlands does not belong in the right row of tax-locking countries. My group welcomes the withholding tax on interest and royalties and the implementation of the ATAD 2 Directive. Complicated legislation is needed to neutralise tax-enhancing effects of hybrid mismatch structures. How does the State Secretary assess the enforcement of this legislation? How'd that go? How will European Member States learn from each other in this respect? Mr. Chairman. We are also pleased with the approach of intermediaries: malicious tax advisors who actively assist their clients in tax avoidance and evasion through aggressive tax planning. The Panama Papers give examples of this. How does the tax authorities engage in the necessary cooperation with the state's attorney's office, the national police and the FIOD? Can the Secretary of State brief us on that? Mr. Chairman. As a final theme, I'm discussing the IRS. It's gonna be more than that tonight. In the eight years I have been a member of the Committee on Finance, I have heard little more than worry about the service. ICT problems, cultural issues, reorganisation problems and the recent drama of child care payments show a tax administration that has been in serious shape for over a decade now. This secretary of state has also started the job vigorously, has taken steps, but he looks less and less cheerful. He doesn't do that right now, but he does at earlier times. The Christian Union Group would like to hear from him how the Tax Administration will stand at the end of the Rutte III cabinet in terms of execution quality. What can the citizen expect? Many MEPs, here and on the other side, sigh: will it ever be okay? Major projects such as the energy transition and the Climate Agreement cannot succeed without a flexible tax administration. A well-functioning Tax Administration is essential for a well-functioning state of law, for the confidence of the people. The tax moral is high in the Netherlands, but we only keep it that way if the implementation of the Tax Administration is in order. The recent FNV study on the poor working environment at the Tax Administration is sad. Can the Secretary of State respond to the conclusions? Mr. Chairman. Parliament itself is not without sin. After all, the complexity of tax legislation is being brewed in the kitchen of the Binnenhof. The mess of surcharges and derogations, including the changes in them, has always been accepted by the two chambers as co-legislators. The fiscal self-cleaning capacity of our Parliament could use some extra attention. I also wanted to add that dimension to the debate. This feasibility is a key dimension in the assessment of legislation by the Upper Chamber. In that light, I am curious how robust the State Secretary actually finds his own execution keys. I note that the Tax Administration rarely slows down when the service is asked for a tax implementation assessment of planned policies. Does the Secretary of State, the Christian Union Group, no longer have to stand on his tax pontoonist. Shouldn't there be a much stronger commitment to the front of the implementation problem: the far too complex legislation? Eventually, Mr President, the conclusion is that we do not escape a fundamental revision of our tax system. It should be simpler and more transparent. My group regrets that this revision does not seem to include this cabinet period. That's a bit of a missed opportunity, isn't it? We now have the financial space that needs a system change and later no longer, if we can believe the recent medium-term review 2022-2025 of the CPB. The Secretary of State does want to present his fiscal agenda... building blocks for this much-needed redesign, but that also sounds a bit shaky. My group would like to know what the real outcome of this debate is and what initiatives we can expect. The ChristianUnion Group is also curious about the government's fiscal priorities for the remaining cabinet period. What does his clean-up fiscal agenda look like? Mr President, I shall conclude. The Christian Union Group welcomes the Tax Plan 2020. The cabinet philosophy is consistently maintained in order to tax consumption more, to make labour cheaper and to facilitate climate-friendly behaviour tax. In terms of purchasing power, the groups remain reasonably united and for the middle class there is finally air. The gap between one and two earners does not deepen further, but vigilance remains necessary. I also challenged the Secretary of State on that point. The IRS will remain, no matter how we run it or turn it, a worry child in all of this. We can't let it derail. Defensive and just tax policy cannot be without a well-functioning Tax Service. Mr President, I look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. Our income tax is sick and our tax office has been derailed. The collapse of the IRS. How could the world's best tax administration have fallen so deep? How could it have come to this? A report by the Borstlap and -Joustra committee from 2017 had to be used to awaken the political atmosphere about the Tax Administration. And there was a dramatic reason for this: the departure scheme for almost 5,000 officials of the Tax Administration, of whom Wiebes had to acknowledge that he was not aware. That report shows the chaos: incarceration of information, informal decision-making without coordination with the Minister and the Secretary of State, with the Tax Office summit and with the Ministry's official summit. The investment agenda has been developed in private. Secretary of State Wiebes then wrote to the Chamber: I underestimated the persistence of the Tax Administration. That was partly the reason for the departure plan. The problem is even deeper. All Cabinets after the introduction of the boxing system in 2001 treated the tax system as a political toy, yes, mistreated and used the Tax Administration as head-of-jut. The Christmas Tree of Law was hung more and more fully and died of it. There's been a trail of destruction. And the Secretary of State hasn't been able to reverse that decaying process. State Secretarys were appointed after 2001 who had not eaten enough cheese from the Tax Administration and his duties, powers, limitations and, above all, his culture. He's dominant, self-conscious, obstinate. But also proud: we in Finance, we in the Tax Administration; I have been a part of it. The introduction of the surcharge system with implementation by the Tax Administration was added as a thief in the night. There was no proper consideration of the vulnerabilities of this service, given the vulnerabilities of the surcharge system itself. What is revenged is that the post of Secretary of State for Finance in formations is not given the priority he should have. The post is heavier than a number of ministerial posts. Sometimes there are two ministers in one ministry with a total of three ministers. Strange but true, in a very small cabinet. People think that as long as the money comes in with bins, there's nothing to worry about. And if the crisis threatens deficits as at the time, we will simply open up the crane of heavy loads: cash register, 30 billion! The appointment of Secretary of State used to be different, Chairman. Look at the choice of names of prominent State Secretarys of Finance from 1960 to 2001: almost all of them had a fiscal background and often came from the Tax Administration. They were tax experts who knew the political handicrafts or quickly learned. They were able to say "don't" with arguments and authority in the cabinet. The newcomers from 2001 almost none had a fiscal background and they certainly had no experience with the Tax Administration. Some were later promoted to minister; I will not add anything else to that. The first thing that had to happen, and fortunately happened, was to appoint someone at the helm with fiscal knowledge of matters and with the necessary expertise, someone who knows the Tax Administration's way around and knows the way around the tax legislation building, which is becoming more and more like a maze. This Secretary of State, the successor of Wiebes, has substantially revised Wiebes' ambitions: the modernisation of the service is a long-term issue. During my period as a member of the House of Representatives, I had intensive discussions with the Secretary of State and sometimes also with the Minister of Finance on tax policy and the State of the Tax Administration. I have tabled a number of motions expressing my deep concern and those of my group. None of them were accepted or judged Chamber. Unfortunately, I have to say that we have reached a dead point. In fact, as much as possible there should be a standstill in the legislation to enable the Tax Administration to put things in order: a breather to catch your breath. And that time should be used to bring about a fundamental reform of the tax system and modernisation of the Tax Administration in the new government agreement of 2021; also an important issue in the formation. We must now take the time to put forward the building blocks of the reform and to create a strong support for it in good time, if possible with broad consensus. Nothing is more political than a tax reform. Can the Secretary of State discuss this in detail in this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. I saw and felt a small part of the emotional debate in the House of Representatives last week about the childcare allowance from the House of Representatives and the emotions of those involved, the victims in the gallery. It was touching, it was poignant to hear and see. The implementation problems of the childcare allowance are the drop in the ocean. But these problems are an expression of a much deeper problem: the introduction of the surcharge system, to be implemented by the Tax Administration. Former Secretary of State Wijn introduced the surcharge system and proudly announced that the Tax Administration was going to provide income. At the time, I strongly advised and warned Wijn: do not do this to the Tax Office, and if that surcharge system is to be introduced, then set up a separate execution service. I called that Service Number 2. Tax Administration officials have been trained as experts for the implementation of tax legislation: levying, checking and collecting. That is also their mentality and culture. They have great difficulty in cashing out, paying money to citizens on the basis of provisional income data, and even more and more uncontrolled. It is not an execution organisation but a recipient, a collector, although it certainly should not become a collection agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u46	The beginning of Mr Van Rooijen's speech seemed a bit like a sort of working meeting with all the previous Secretary of State. Mr Van Rooijen says quite a bit about what goes wrong with the Tax Administration and so on. We'll all say something about that. But does he agree with me that we should also put our hands in our own bosom? Secretary of State and ministers may submit laws, but parliaments adopt them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u47	I welcome the comment made by the honourable Member. It is true that not only Cabinets, Directors, Finance Ministers and Secretary of State have responsibility. As co-legislator, the Second Chamber and the First Chamber also have a great responsibility in this regard. The previous speaker has just made that quite clear. I think we should definitely charge ourselves with that. That is why I would like to look very closely at what we can and cannot do with legislation in the next cabinet period, and to make the implementation test very difficult. What can't, or what isn't possible soon, we also have to postpone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u48	I am glad that Mr Van Rooijen agrees with me that we should not point out alone. I used to learn: if you point at someone, there are three fingers to yourself. I think we should just take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr Van Rooijen is a modest man. That's what's good for him. He does not explicitly say that he was also Secretary of State for Finance himself, in the time of the Den Uyl cabinet. He has gained experience there with the Investment Account Act. That was the first incredibly instrumental tax scheme and was used for everything, from small scale payments to large project payments. The special thing about that Investment Account Act was that you could get a negative hit. If you paid too little tax, the tax authorities could still pay the difference with the premium. Then the IRS became a payout agency as well. We have had very bad experiences with this. So you can also tell from your own history how careful you should be with a Tax Administration that is going to pay out instead of collecting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u51	Did you also have a brief, clarifying question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u52	Can Mr Van Rooijen confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u53	It is a good example that my colleague cites here. I must also say that the WIR was preceded by the SIR, the Selective Investment Scheme, of the Cabinet for the Den Uyl Cabinet. This regulation was about sending investments in a very different way, really bureaucratic and bureaucratic, while those of the Den Uyl cabinet were about substantially reducing the effective tax burden on business. To recall, the rate of corporation tax at that time was 48%. 48%. After the first oil crisis, with the threat of unemployment and rising unemployment, there was every reason to introduce a major tax reduction for business. The WIR was a system of corporation tax subsidies of 4 billion guilders a year. That meant 40 points of corporate tax reduction, if you did not take into account the corporation tax on gas revenues. So that meant that a left-wing cabinet made a right-wing decision here. Right-wing Cabinets often make left-wing decisions, such as this cabinet. That so-called left-wing cabinet decided to reduce the effective corporate tax rate by 40 percentage points. It went even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u54	I understand from the questioner that he has now received sufficient answers to his question, as I have seen from Mr Essers. So perhaps you'd like to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u55	Yes, but I have to answer the question, at least confirm it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u56	I'd like you to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u57	Indeed, for many companies that did not pay corporation tax, the WIR meant a refund. We agree on that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that my fear has come out of the great havoc caused by the surcharge system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u58	The WIR is a very interesting example of a point I have already mentioned in various speeches on these kinds of subjects, namely reflexivity, so that people anticipate policies. The WIR is a very good example and that is why I was pleased that Mr Essers raised this issue. That WIR actually only worked on the last weekend when the Lubbers cabinet was about to abolish it and everyone ran to the notary and was about to make a quick investment. Then, I believe, a weekend for billions of assets and transactions were purchased. Does Mr Van Rooijen agree with me that we need to take much more account of behavioural effects and anticipatory behavioural effects of taxpayers on policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u59	I will reply briefly. I would like to say to you in public that at the time I was Minister Ruding, who was actually the author of that bill, which was made on Finance and not on Economic Affairs, I regularly said: inform the brake of the WIR, which will gradually reduce 40% to ensure that it does not have the effects that should eventually lead to a sudden abolition. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u60	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u61	I said my fear came out of the misery, the havoc that the supplemental system was going to cause. Following the Bulgarian fraud, which led to the resignation of Weekers, a strict control policy was adopted at the request of the House of Representatives. I, too, have to note that careless monitoring has led to excesses in the childcare allowance. Moreover, it is worrying that the number of victims of this harder, too harsh approach is still far from known. In addition to the surcharge system, I mention a series of decisions which have led to the current fiscal impasse and which have often been supported by political decisions. The following main points stand out for the 50PLUS group. Firstly, the secondary objectives of taxation are becoming increasingly important in tax legislation. I refer to income policy, labour market policy and environmental policy. In addition, climate policy can now become a monster for the Tax Administration. The Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to subcontract the implementation of that policy to another service because of "closed during the renovation," I would say. The water is on the lips of the IRS. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to that reference to another point of contact. Income policy has led to great leveling. Purchasing power plates lead to adjustments of individual parts of income tax and supplements per year. Labour market policies have led to large differences in effective pressure between single and double households, between single and two earners, between workers and no longer employed and between employees and self-employed. To what extent is there unequal treatment, discrimination and also age discrimination? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then there is the second point. A consequence is the inexhaustible policy of cabinets of every colour to introduce increasingly income-dependent schemes which, in their accumulation and collapse, lead to consequences that are undesirable, inevitable and insoluble. The rent and care allowance with their own income limit dynamics make the combination with income tax even more complicated. It's an irrefutable tangle. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The third point is this. The huge number of 1.1 millionzzp'ers raises the question of the extent to which the very generous tax regime for self-employed workers is part of this growth. It is worrying that, after the abolition of the VAR, this VAR and the actual inaction of the DBA Act as successor to the VAR have in fact entered a controlless era, which can continue for a long time; a kind of Stadhouderloos Epoch. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. How does he see a solution? The demise of the IRS should have been chiefsache for the prime minister by now. He has to perform now. Three Cabinets-Rutte have allowed that loss of the IRS to happen. The Prime Minister stood by and looked at it. I have hardly ever been able to catch the Prime Minister making any such statements about the State of the Tax Office. I repeat here my request to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, through the Secretary of State, to appoint a second Secretary of State for Finance in the short term, i.e. a request for two State Secretarys, one of whom is solely responsible for the Tax Administration. I suggest, as I said on the other side, that it is not a criticism of this Secretary of State; on the contrary, I see it as a support in its immense task and responsibility. I say to him: the Tax Office is too heavy a tax for one Secretary of State. Party politics does not have to be a problem, because our group also allows him to come from D66 or be partyless. It's about the expertise. I would like a well-founded response from the Secretary of State; otherwise I am considering a motion in the second term. On June 6, 2019 I tabled a motion for the second time. Steps must now be taken to reform the income tax system. It is not enough simply to have an interdepartmental working group or a finance working group. Most logical is a small state committee which will report by the autumn next year at the latest. The report by the Van Dijkhuizen Committee is an example of how it should not be done. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Is it not time, I ask, for a parliamentary inquiry or even a survey of the Tax Administration? That's the question I'm asking this Chamber itself. Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives has behaved as a lamb rather than a lion here, to speak with former Chamber Chairman Vondeling. Fortunately, after the broadly supported motion Heerma, there is now an investigation into large execution services such as the Tax Administration and the UWV. A motion on a parliamentary survey on the childcare allowance debacle did not make it last week. Parliamentary surveys have a reputation for letting their heads roll. Often then things are politically exchanged: you are gone, then you are gone. Or... either way. That's not a good approach. Perhaps, therefore, the less political First Chamber is sometimes better suited to conduct a survey, a mini-survey or an investigation. I filed a motion in the Lower House in February 2019 together with MP Leijten of the SP for a parliamentary investigation into the Tax Administration. I did not put it to the vote because I wanted to wait and see if there would be any change. Minister Hoekstra knew my opinion. He agreed with me that at least an external investigation had to be carried out immediately to the Tax Administration's ICT summit. That research by Ernst & Young would be completed by the end of this year. Can the Secretary of State state state if that investigation is ready by now? Does he want to send that report to this Chamber as soon as it's ready? In the meantime, a year later, it is clear that the situation in the Tax Administration is unsustainable. A survey or survey should be forward-looking and not become a hatchet day. Sending away pastors of incumbent rulers will not solve anything either. Donner research and research by the Audit Service Reich are fine, but the Tax Office must be chiefsache for parliament, it is not the Lower House, then perhaps the Upper Chamber. Moreover, the Tax Administration must also be Chief Sache of Minister Hoekstra van Financiën, who is responsible for the State Secretary under state law. Mr President, I turn to the draft Tax Plan 2020. For this cabinet rule is to bring forward and move forward. This cabinet brings forward reliefs and transfers burden increases to the next cabinet. The cabinet brings forward 1.7 billion planned relief from 2021 and structuralally additional resources of 3 billion are added to reduce the burden on households, especially for workers. Of this reduction, 1.5 billion comes from a shift of burden from citizens to business. The postponement of burden increases is reflected in the recent medium-term estimate of the Central Planning Bureau. I quote: 'Policy charges are increasing by 5.8 billion, of which 4.5 billion are borne by households, especially by rising healthcare contributions and higher wage and income taxes, such as by further limiting mortgage interest relief'. The Secretary of State will be happy to support these two policy choices of shifting back and forth. I'm going back to the year 2020. The employment discount will be increased by €420. The elderly discount is not increased by a penny. In three years' time, the employment discount will go up by almost €1,000 and that will cost no less than 2.1 billion. The elderly discount will not be increased politically in those years. This year there is a tip of say and write €26. This brings me to the development of the collective burden: in the nine years Rutte the collective burden increased from 34% to 39%. This is the main reason for the slight increase in purchasing power for all, but especially for those who are not working anymore. They were already heavily affected by the burden increases after the crisis and then, as an additional blow, they also get much less tax relief under Rutte II and III. In the Tax Plan that was 5 billion in 2016 and now it's happening again in this big billions plan under the motto: we're reducing taxes on labour. But that is also happening under the motto, even if it is not there: and we are not reducing the burden on older people. I can easily prove that. For workers, between 2010 and 2020, the total overall tax reduction and labour discount increased by over €3,100 to over €6,500. For older people, the general tax discount and the elderly discount together with only €1,300 increased to almost €3,000. Thus, older people receive almost €2,000 less tax reduction in the period 2010-2020 than those employed. At present, older people have €3,100 less tax discounts than the workers' discounts: €3,400 for the elderly versus €6,500 for the workers. This is the result of 20 years of pure fiscal age discrimination. In my group's view, this has nothing to do with taxation in terms of capacity. The answers to our questions show that the working discount in 2022 costs almost 23 billion and that the rates for all discs could be reduced by 5.65% for young and old. This could have led to a substantial reduction in marginal pressure, as well as a reduction in the labour cost. Last year, the Nibud presented a picture of the purchasing power development over the period 2010-2019. This shows that wages have increased by 11%, the AOW by 15% and pensions by 0%, because they have not been increased for ten years. I have just read in a newspaper that according to CBS, poverty has increased significantly among 55-plussers and 70-plussers. Of the people between 55 and 65 years old, 10% are poor, it turns out. With that 10% it turns out to be the same as 50PLUS. Finally, Mr President. I can be brief about the unfair taxation for savers in box 3. Turns out it's a black box for the Second and First Chambers. For many groups and also for the 50PLUS Group, it continues to pull a dead horse. Wait till 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u62	Your speaking time is up. Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u63	Yes, I announced that, if you've listened. With the CDA Group, we regret that it is not now possible to achieve a temporary additional exemption for savers. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I await the exchange of views with the Secretary of State tomorrow with more than ordinary interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I congratulate Mrs Geerdink on her maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. What are the tough weeks in the tax world, especially for citizens, for which we are all doing this. Public action through complex rules has so far been carried out, but government action has become largely inimitable. What stings most is that people who have to deal with surcharges are becoming more and more victims. It's not human anymore. The Labour Party assumes that the cabinet, this Secretary of State, will fix the mistakes generously and quickly. He has already promised that some of them will be restored before Christmas. We wholeheartedly support him in that. Can the Secretary of State respond to the intensity of last week's debate? For he must have hit him; we saw that. But after a weekend, maybe a restless weekend, we are also interested in his experience afterwards. In doing so, we as the PvdA Group will now point out some points which show that the problem is much broader and more fundamental than only the implementation organisation, but I will start with that, as colleagues have done. Can the Secretary of State zoom in on the underlying administrative problems and organisational problems? Mr Frentrop mentioned this as well. It's like there's a big mess in the internal administration. Also members of the First Chamber are approached by parents, who say: 'one does not have the file of mine complete' or'my file is in different departments and one cannot put it together'. Does this mean that there are self-directing teams that are so self-directing that they no longer speak to each other? And maybe not up in the organization anymore, along the line? Then people are called "repay," then "don't pay up" and then this or that again. Is there still a clear administrative accountability within one's own organisation? I share what Vendrik said we're not about that. But if the internal lines are not correct, there is also no accountability to the political domain, which depends on those lines. That is why it is important that we talk about it here. Is there still a central overview and therefore central control? If the overall insight is not there, the feasibility of the law is at stake and the control of it is one of the explicit tasks of the Upper Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We should definitely look at ourselves here, too. I have just heard all the examples of Mr Van Rooijen. I haven't reached that age yet. Well, I do have an anecdote that's kind of striking right now. Vice Prime Minister Zalm told me in the debate on the government statement by LPF, CDA and VVD in 2002, that he was finally no longer affected by all those nasty PvdA plans he had to carry out in Purple. We did con amore because you know his humor. Then he said: I would have liked to do one thing with you, because I now have to introduce market-based care premiums from the CDA and the VVD. It was obvious he wasn't in the mood. We were on the line "do a premium of €400, then you can compete too, but then you don't have to channel the money back to so many millions of people." Here we see that we could have known and we knew it. That's the way it went by the end anyway. I come to the question to the Secretary of State: only last year a motion was adopted here to carry out a 'power test' under legislation. There were opinions from the WRR on that. The motion was passed then, but the Secretary of State rejected him and said he can't or won't execute it, I wasn't there. That is the heart of the matter. We have to keep asking ourselves - others have also said - whether it is feasible what we are pretending to be here. And not just by the service. Can the citizens follow this? The WRR even advised at that time that sometimes things should be able to go on their own. People shouldn't go after everything. I have seen examples of people who have up to 80 payments a year and who have to fill out dozens of forms and, of course, do not see the forest through the trees anymore. As an ex-mayor, I've seen a lot of cases of people coming by at the end of the debt chain, where the government often plays an important role. What I find to be a very disappointing point is the analysis that also points to ourselves. Tom Jan Meeus made it at the NRC this weekend. He says: they were there, but it is precisely the politicians who have put down citizens and increasingly have become potential fraudsters. That wasn't just a column, it was actually a reconstruction of things that happened and that I and others recognize. Both regulation is complex and looking at the citizens. Are they doing it right in principle and are some of them doing it wrong? Or are they all doing it wrong? I would like a reflection on these points of the Secretary of State. Let us now turn to the Tax Plan itself. In fact, we are going to test that everyone will do. The tax system is based on three main objectives: 1. Does it promote sustainable economic development? 2. Does it contribute to a fair distribution of income? 3. Does it support them as much as possible? And, of course, is it feasible? But in this triangle of economics, justice and feasibility, we have to say to our great disappointment that the cabinet is taking small steps forward, but still taking bigger steps backwards. If only it were Echternach, because then you go ahead and a little back, but on balance ahead. Unfortunately, with this Tax Plan, we can only see that there are three signs of decline. The cabinet lacks great opportunities. I'll explain. The tax area is ideal for testing. The expression is "put your money where your mouth is," but the taxes certainly also apply "take your money where your mouth is." The first objective of fiscal policy is to support economic development. For years now, we have been letting the government continue to burden more and more on the wage, labour, income factor in the coming years, while the remaining income and wealth are contributing less and less to the tax mix. The collective burden burden has increased by 2.7 percentage points over the last decade, 70% of which is borne by the labour factor. In the medium term, Mr Van Rooijen pointed out that the labour factor is increasing even more, by nearly 5 billion. This directly affects the functioning of the labour market, as it discourages labour supply, while we are already seeing a trendal decline there. That comes from our ability to earn the future. What is the Secretary of State's reaction to this observation? Does he think that withdrawal is desirable? Apart from the average tax burden, marginal pressure is even more important in the context of economic division. A lot has been said about it. The cabinet has said a lot about it, but is it lip service or is something really being done? The marginal pressure is a very disruptive burden, because it explains why many professionals, who we need to go to work or to work more hours, not only because of the trees do not see the forest anymore, but also because of the extra earnings. In health care, education, the police, but also in construction and other private sectors we hear this everywhere. We leave a lot of human resources behind. How many cops have I talked to as mayor who said, "Why should I go to work more?" It's not gonna work. The marginal pressure is now being strengthened, and that is where we come in with the government policy, which is seriously strengthened by the introduction of the reduction of the top rate to 49.5% and the two-sided rate. As a result, the cabinet is forced to make all other fiscal aspects dependent on income. All discounts have already been mentioned. Everything becomes income-dependent. What seems to be simple, a two-tariff structure, is much more complicated by the underlying discount structure. With this the devil is driven out with Beelzebub. The cabinet admits it, by the way. The Secretary of State says in the written answers: the low-hanging fruit has been picked; it is indeed not becoming more transparent. I'd say it's going to be intransparant. I'd like his comment on that. Can the Secretary of State explain this? This isn't simplification anymore, is it? If we were to restore the old tariff structure and maintain what we are advocating, we could have far more flat labour rebates and tax rebates. That's how it started in the purple cabinet. Just those deductions turn into flat discounts. The marginal pressure, apart from those disks and other direct fiscal aspects, is mainly a major problem because of the detour subsidy for childcare, care and rent allowances. In fact, they are simply subsidies, but detour subsidies through taxation. I told you, Minister Zalm wasn't the man who thought you should be paying taxes. You had to bring it in. It's probably gotten worse than he thought. Is it not better to close the detour and make child care a basic provision directly, for example by giving part of free hours and vouchers to working elderly people? You can finance the healthcare funding directly through the insurers. That can be macro, on population, or it can be micro. It's complicated, but it's easier than what's going on right now. You can give the housing corporations a bigger role in the rent subsidy or rent allowance, because that keeps the rents low and prevents a lot of money pumping around. Macroeconomically, this is not more expensive, of course, because the costs remain the same. It's shifting money flows. It's easier and you'll save some bureaucratic costs. And it is particularly much simpler and therefore more effective in terms of people's introduction into the labour market and what is more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u66	Very interesting argument. We do have all these surcharges, discounts and so on. Is it not much fairer, for example, to regulate the child allowance entirely through child benefit? Then everyone gets exactly the same amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u67	I think that is certainly an option. I'd like to think out of the box in every way. Literally out of the box: box 1, 2 and 3; let's also make box 4 and 5. But all these options are better, because we are now doing such micromanagement that it requires so much execution technique. Of course, in the current labour market, people often change the number of hours they work in a year. They have to report this all the time: I have more or less hours of child care. It's unsolvable within the system. The Secretary of State also says in his answers that the low-hanging fruit has already been picked. There's not much more to go on. So you have to climb a little higher into the tree and completely change the system. The Secretary of State is already doing a lot about it: there are all kinds of studies done, ibos, committees, you name it. I'm asking him if he's willing to promise that all the imaginable will be investigated. So not only within taxation, but rather a broad study. All the ibos coming in, out of the box. Will he promise us that, because then a next cabinet will be able to work on it? I'd like to do it sooner, because I'd like to give it to this cabinet to make it easier. If the Secretary of State agrees, it could happen sooner. Then the next cabinet can make the right decisions on the basis of good studies. The secret lies in coherence. If you take one thing out and make it easier, it won't work. If you add up everything, you'll probably be able to arrange a lot of simple things in a world of subsidies and taxes. Mr. Chairman. Another important aspect of fair distribution of income, but also of economic distribution, is the imbalance in justice. The cabinet is taking great steps back when it comes to tax progression. The lowest incomes and middle incomes have to do with 1.4% to 1.8% increase in income. The higher incomes by 2.1% to 2.4% and if you earn more, even more. So the highest incomes get the most. This is still greatly increasing according to the medium-term estimate of the CPB, because this legacy is also left behind by the low top rate and its high target. As a result, according to the CPB, the gini coefficient, the measure of inequality, is increasing even further. This cabinet increases inequality and lets that also be reflected in a subsequent cabinet. It will not be easy to change, because the top rate, which is an ideological point in this cabinet, naturally puts the next cabinet on hold. The cabinet is pressing itself and future Cabinets in terms of the top rate and what's underneath. Moreover, is it appropriate to leave such a radical measure with an account of 4.5 billion in wages and income tax for a new cabinet? We didn't need the double tax. There's another option to reverse it. Not today, but maybe tomorrow. We're putting ourselves in a very tight position. Does this not mean that we are becoming one of the few countries which no longer has a progressive tariff system, but a degressive tariff system? Who was ever after that? We can look at America, but you'll be frightened if I mention its rates. An important side effect of the structure that we have now chosen with all these income-dependent discounts is that people in the Wajong are making a huge fall down. They often only work half-time and therefore do not get the high employment discount that the member Van Rooijen talked about, but for example half. So they're gonna make a lot less money than their colleague in the workplace who has a normal minimum wage or something above it. If so, I would ask the Secretary of State to fix this as soon as possible. It can never be intended that we want people as much as possible in normal work, but that they get significantly less pay. This can amount to a difference of net €200 per month. The same applies to the WGA workers. If you'd like to fix that, I'll ask the Secretary of State. I agree with the questions that have been asked, but I would like to stress that the question of cashing is also a bigger one. The smaller the tax rate structure, the more people at the bottom have a silvering problem and do not get what they are entitled to. I understand from the documents that it could be 700,000 people now. Can the Secretary of State confirm that and see what can be done about it? A next issue of injustice, but also of economic inefficiency in the system, is the tax mix between on the one hand income from labour, wages and works, and on the other hand taxes on profits and wealth. One thing is clear from all the figures from the IMF, CBS and from other sides: in recent years, the share of the collective burden burden in the tax mix has shifted enormously to the detriment of the labour factor. At first I mentioned the numbers. This means that companies pay less extra money. That's not funny in itself. But they also no longer pay for them to finance education infrastructure, care infrastructure, road infrastructure and so on. We all know how angry people can get if that's not distributed fairly. All I have to do is think about the dividend tax. Let me also commend the Secretary of State on this point, because at least he is working to close as much as possible the possibilities of international evasion and evasion. We will support the proposals that are now before the documents, on ATAD 2, DAC, and so on. But we are far from there, because the net burden on the largest companies is barely 16% according to the CBS. For medium-sized enterprises, this is only 20%. This is not the nominal rate of 25.7 whereas the Secretary of State has often said that he thought that nominal and real rates are close in the Netherlands. I'd like his comment on that. However, in the case of the falling burden on entrepreneurs, it is very naïve that in 2021 they will be given an additional reduction in charges. That's a charge relief from the Vpb to 21%. The Netherlands also takes the lead in the tax race to the bottom. Surrounding major countries such as France, Germany and Belgium still have a much higher Vpb rate of around 25%. Is it fair to take the European average, as the Secretary of State does? This includes the low tax burden in European countries. Of course, they work in a very different structure. For this reason, we would like to call on the cabinet not to continue the reduction of the burden of the Vpb, which will not take place before next year but in 2021. How does the Secretary of State judge the Rutte test? Prime Minister Rutte has said to a great surprise: they only get it when wages rise. When does that test take place? Is that gonna happen? The SER has two more anchors: the race to the bottom and the fact that people and business have to pay for it, and the Rutte test, which we hope will also provide support in the Chamber not to continue with the Vpb reduction. Mr. Chairman. I would like to be brief about housing. That's what we've just been talking about. The housing corporations have a cumulative burden increase: the landlord's tax, corporate tax and the interest deduction limitation. The reduction of 100 million they get now is less than the increase. Can we at least have another debate with the Secretary of State: why increase the burden on housing corporations, while other countries in the world almost never levy the landlord's tax at all? Let us at least help them by further reducing the capital efficiency levy. All the more so that on the other side of the housing market the grant exemption of €100,000 further increases the contrast between the haves and the harbour ots. It was understandable when the market was locked, but now it is no longer necessary? In fact, it makes house prices higher for the people who can't get in the way anyway. I would like the Secretary of State's first reaction to the CBS report on this point. This is not just maintaining power inequality; this is increasing power inequality. After all, once you've bought a house, it's another power accelerator. Everyone who ever bought a house knows that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Climate Agreement and the greening measures. I very much agree with Mr Van Rooijen. A survey should not be about who should resign, but about a problem of the future. I am very pleased that in 1995-1996 the House of Representatives conducted a survey or research on climate change with all professors. That was broadcast every night at The Hague Today. 1995-1996! Unfortunately, that came out of what we're seeing now. Then it was predicted that we would go to the Paris climate zone. It is even worse, because we are already at the level of Bordeaux. That is what the Chamber showed unanimously at the time. I commend the political groups on all sides to review that report. Unfortunately, in 1995-1996, we knew a great deal about what has now come out, and we also knew that we had to do something. Then we thought: no-regret policy. Now we have to go much further. But I'd like to recommend it. I was a member of that committee and it is very instructive to do such things instead of having to resign. That is what this whole debate should have been about and certainly my input: how do we get a green system? I know that this Secretary of State is running out of steam for this and is not flying, and that he is at least very enthusiastic about international air traffic taxes. Let us hope that next year we will have a huge debate on CO2 taxes, but also on how to get greening in the system. I'd like his comment on that. Last week a report from the CPB appeared that taxes on industry are not socially disruptive at all, but very helpful. I would therefore like to recommend for the next round that next year the Secretary of State, Mr President, should take some small steps. But even then we run into the problem of distribution, because the studies also show that low incomes are often the most difficult because they cannot invest or get the biggest burden. So the climate problem is not only a natural or technical problem, but it is certainly also a problem of distribution. We can grind the knives on that old-fashioned: who pays the bill and who doesn't? But let us not question the climate problem itself, but let us resolve it in that way. I would very much like to blame China, which is a political choice, but I do not deny the problem. I ask the Secretary of State's reaction to this CPB study, but also whether he thinks that we can take major steps forward next year. Then we can also take with us what has just been said by others too: we do not have such a clever system for car taxes at the moment. We should not encourage technology, because we find that a new technique is soon to come. But then we will stop the subsidy by hand on the crane. If anything is clumsy for the business community, from consumers to dealers to manufacturers, that is the stop and go policy. Let us then put it on medium rather than target, so on CO, but from well to wheel for mobility. I would ask for an incentive arrangement for electric and other clean mobility, including on two wheels. I agree with the questions that have been asked about greenhouse horticulture. It is not acceptable for us to raise 3 177% in a single blow, which means that sustainable developments on that side will no longer be able to continue, which means that we will probably no longer be able to achieve the objective of 6 megatons in the Climate Agreement. I urge the Secretary of State to put forward a solution to this. And I'm curious about the answers to the questions about the waste streams.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u68	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u69	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. You will understand that where the cabinet takes steps back on the main points of economy, sustainability, distribution and justification of spending, I do not know how to advise a progressive group to vote in favour, but I am happy to be persuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mrs Van Huffelen on behalf of D66, at least the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Geerdink on her maiden speech; she is about to take her turn. Mr. Chairman. There's a first time for everything. And for me today, that is the treatment of a tax plan or, in fact, a tax package. It is with great pleasure that I have carried out this task. It has become a comprehensive package, which has already been discussed. That is why I will focus on a limited number of issues in this debate. After a brief introduction, I will deal with the package before us and then with the wishes of my group for improving the current tax system and the current tax culture. Last week a long debate was held in the House of Representatives on child care allowances. A subject that is closely linked to today's topic. I will come back to this later in my speech, but my group is keen to say that we agree with the substance of the conclusions of that debate in the House of Representatives: the government has a great obligation to its citizens not only to develop good policies and rules, but also a very important task in its implementation to "humanise" itself with regard to the citizens for whom the complexity of the rules we have made is often difficult to comprehend. I would like to congratulate the government on its consistent policy on the development and adjustment of taxes. This policy also reflects the fundamentals of government tax policy, such as tackling tax avoidance and evasion, an attractive locational environment for real activities and greening. The D66 Group welcomes a large number of parts of the package. I'll name a few: Reducing the burden on citizens, which benefits all income groups from economic growth; Early introduction of the two-disk system. Last year, my colleague, Mr Backer, was concerned that we could have the discipline to continue with this. It is gratifying to see that this has been achieved; The implementation of a package of greening measures to implement the Climate Agreement, for motorists, homeowners and companies; The withholding tax Act, which, in line with OECD policy, puts an end to a form of tax avoidance through the Netherlands, which improves our reputation internationally; Compliments also for extending the working costs scheme which is particularly attractive to SMEs; Last but not least, the increase in excise duty on tobacco and e-cigarettes, which will make it possible to achieve a smoke-free generation. Despite the huge size of the package, a number of issues have not yet been included in this plan. A number of subjects have already been mentioned, but I would like to mention a number of which my group hopes will be submitted to this Chamber at the announced rate: The CO levy for companies; Box 3 measures; The proposal on excessive borrowing from its own company; The adjustment of the strike and liquidation loss account. I will continue with my comments on this Tax Package 2020. In addition to the good steps that have been taken, my group has a number of questions and comments. I would like to start with the issue of climate objectives. This tax package takes important steps towards the implementation of the climate targets, both those of Urgenda and the Climate Agreement. My group welcomes this. At the same time, we are concerned about the feasibility of climate targets. The background to this is twofold. Firstly, studies carried out by the Court of Auditors, among others, show that the fiscal greening measures do not always have sufficient effect, for example in stimulating electric driving. That has been mentioned earlier tonight. Secondly, climate and energy exploration shows that we are in danger of failing to meet the climate targets as a result of stronger growth in our economy. This may sound too much like doom thinking for an optimistic group. But the recent nitrogen crisis shows us how relevant it is that we choose the right and sufficient instruments to deliver on our goals. The government will therefore have to do everything in its power to ensure that the proposed measures achieve as much results as possible, of course by providing in-depth information to citizens and businesses and certainly also by monitoring progress. In this connection, however, I would like to call on the Secretary of State to do two other things. In the first instance, he must, of course, ensure that the already announced CO levy is implemented as soon as possible for companies, the flight tax and the treatment of polluting fuels in maritime transport. Secondly, he must develop a general CO levy as soon as possible. In the Lower House, the State Secretary indicated that he would investigate this as part of a new tax system to be designed. The D66 Group asks the Secretary of State to develop a general tax that can be introduced in the shorter term. This is mainly in the context of meeting the climate objectives of this cabinet. Different variants are conceivable for this purpose. Recently a number of these models have been put next to each other by De Nederlandsche Bank. The Swedish model is an example of this, for sectors outside the ETS. Another example is the introduction of an external cost compensation, a type of VAT which increases the price of products on the basis of a value per tonne of CO. It has recently been pointed out that such a general CO2 tax could also work in the context of the nitrogen problem. Of course, we should ideally do all this in a European context, especially now that we have a European Commission that has ambitious plans for this. I am considering tabling a motion on this subject in my second term. I also have a number of other issues relating to the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u72	Great support for what Mrs Van Huffelen is saying here. I have one question. Should this Secretary of State develop plans or should this Secretary of State be carrying out plans with this cabinet, with this coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u73	It will be important for the cabinet to start meeting the climate objectives it has set itself for 2020 and 2030. In this context, plans have been made. These are, of course, ahead of us today, in the part of the plan on climate change objectives, at least the fiscal side of it. In addition, I think it is relevant to have a number of additional instruments. I am referring in particular to this general CO levy, in case the instruments we have ahead of us are not having sufficient effect. Then we have some kind of insurance premium, you might say, in case we had to pursue additional policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u74	That's a very big chance when I look at the Urgendavonnis. Three weeks from now, the year of truth will come. Last week, we discussed with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy on the issue of the Coal Act that there is, of course, a very good chance that by 2020 the emissions of the Netherlands will not comply with the court ruling. Then Mrs Van Huffelen's appeal should be today: Secretary of State, come forward within two or three months with a similar proposal, a reserve package, because the chances of us having to use it are very high. Then you shouldn't wait until another cabinet, because then we'll be way over 2020. Do I read it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u75	Of course, if necessary, the government will have to come up with such a reserve package. What I am asking this Secretary of State to do is, on a subject which he himself said he would like to work with, see if he can speed up, in order to make it an important part of a possible government acceleration package. There are a number of other issues that I would like to raise about the tax package. That is, among other things, the increase in the ODE. It has also been mentioned by a number of other members of this Chamber. Despite the discussion about this in the Lower House and the State Secretary's commitment to monitor, there are concerns from many sectors, not only greenhouse horticulture, but above all from this point of view. It is clear that the cabinet has opted for a shift from the ODE from citizens to businesses, but the burden on companies that have already made investments seems to be greatly increased. My question to the Secretary of State is whether, in line with previous questions, he can inform us more about two things. Would he like to intervene when monitoring shows that things are not going well? Has he, together with the Minister of LNV, already developed an instrument for the possible addition of SDE funds? A second issue is the taxation of foreign waste. In the context of the Urgenda ruling, the cabinet has chosen to levy a tax on imports of foreign waste. That's how we stop imports of CO. A proposal has also been made from the waste sector to achieve this objective in a different way. That proposal was not yet completed in the course of the examination of the Tax Plan in the Lower House. My question to the Secretary of State is whether there is any progress on that plan and whether this could possibly contribute better to achieving the Urgenda objectives. I would like to move on to my third block: the need for change. When examining the package and on the basis of recent discussions in the Netherlands, it became clear that the current system is in need of profound change. At the heart of the problem is the complexity of the system, the increasing complexity of the implementation of changes, the changes in our own society, for example the desire for sustainability and change in the labour market, and the erosion of the current foundations. The Secretary of State also indicated this in his building blocks letter of 15 April. This letter announces a number of studies on the basis of which a new system can be developed from next spring onwards. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, a number of elements in such a system are of great importance. On the basis of the principles of social liberalism, two are important in this context. The first is: reward achievement and share prosperity. The second is to strive for a sustainable and harmonious society. From these points of view, we would ask the Secretary of State to include the following elements in his search for a new system. In the first place, it is based on a broad concept of prosperity, in which there is appreciation for material prosperity, but also for work, learning, health, living, diversity and the environment. Secondly, starting from a system that not only looks at the here and now, but also at the elsewhere and later, in line with the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Thirdly, a system which is characterised by the taxation of consumption and the use of raw materials, more than the taxation of labour, according to the polluter pays principle. Fourthly, a system that allows fair income and wealth development for all generations. Fifthly, a system that takes into account a changing labour market and changing business earning models, both nationally and internationally. Sixthly, a system that appreciates entrepreneurship, innovation and activity. Seventh: a system that is internationally coherent, which could possibly mean abandoning the system of unanimity in decision-making at EU level. Eighth and finally, a system which seeks alternatives to the mix of tax collection and payment of surcharges. I ask the Secretary of State to include these principles in the design of a new system. I'd like to receive his response to that. In this context, I have a special wish on the basis of which I am considering tabling a motion in the second term. It concerns the issue of marginal pressure. On the basis of this tax system, marginal pressure is spread more evenly, but it is still particularly high: about 80% to 85% in the income group of around €30,000. As a result, it is less attractive for certain occupational groups to start working more often, as was said earlier this evening, or for young people at a certain stage of their lives. On the basis of the analyses we have carried out, these are mainly young women working part-time in education and care, while the D66 Group wants to encourage them to work more, for emancipatory reasons and to address the shortages of workers in those specific sectors. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he can address this particular issue not only in a new system to be designed but also in the Tax Plan 2021. This could also be done by subsidising childcare as a basic provision rather than the current supplement scheme. I would like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u76	You'll file a motion if you've asked for something that isn't promised. I also thought: shall I table a motion on marginal pressure? I didn't do that for that reason. This Secretary of State has already written countless pieces on how things can be different, but he does not have the political space to do it. So shouldn't we just say: please admit that you're doing whatever it takes, that you're thinking out of the box because it doesn't fit in those boxes and that you're coming up with all of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u77	I would, of course, like to wait for the answer from the Secretary of State, but it is indeed in that direction. We want to ensure that we are able to deal with the problems that have already been addressed in your contribution to young workers, often women, in certain sectors. On the contrary, we want to encourage them to participate more in the labour market and to work longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u78	The trouble is, he's a multifaceted monster. It was only the women who often still work part-time. It's also the breadwinners, I'll say, in the one and a half earners' family, the Netherlands has a one and a half earner's society and all those Wajangers and you name it. Let us please ask the Secretary of State not to make a political play with motions, but to resolve it together; perhaps a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u79	I am always in favour of solving this problem together, but in this context I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u80	A very interesting point made by Mrs Van Huffelen. I would remind her that there may be no need for motions because there is already a Schalk motion on this point and also a Ester motion. There was no support from D66 then, but from now on there was. Let's pick that up and ask the Secretary of State to fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u81	I'll be happy to look at those motions, but I'm afraid they're not all about the same subject. But I'll see about that. In my second term, I'd like to get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u82	I'll make sure you get them, ma'am... I'll make sure Mrs. Van Huffelen gets them, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u83	Fantastic, thank you. Secondly, on the road to a new tax culture for companies and the Tax Administration. A new tax system based on building blocks alone is not enough. It is also about how government and citizens and businesses relate in this context: what is our tax culture? My colleague, Mr Backer, also drew attention to this in his contribution to the previous Tax Plan. In this context, my group welcomes the announcement by the Secretary of State that he intends to work together with companies and their advisers on a tax governance code aimed at corporate social responsibility to pay taxes on real activities. He will also be organising a conference in this context shortly. As far as I am concerned, this should lead to two things: a simplified and more transparent tax system for companies, as far as possible unified in Europe, and, at least as important, a culture for companies in which they commit themselves to establishing a clear tax strategy, an open interaction with tax authorities and transparency about their tax payments, and, of course, not actively focusing on avoidance. We could work on the basis of the Responsive Tax Principles of The B Team. This also requires a tax administration that operates on the basis of the principle "control is good, trust even better." Because when companies adapt, and also the Tax Administration, then we break the spiral of the very complex regulation we are now working with and the resulting huge administrative burden, the ongoing search of companies for new loopholes in the law and a Tax Administration with a police function in particular. In addition, such a culture greatly improves the locational environment for existing and new businesses. After all, a good business climate is important for the whole of the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State agree with the D66 Group that the introduction of a tax governance code and a culture in the Tax Administration based on the principle of "control is good, trust is better" should be at the heart of cooperation between companies and the Tax Administration? I will conclude with the subject I started with: the implementation problem at the Tax Administration. This is large and the causes are diverse: the complexity of legislation and regulation, the mix of collection and distribution, the outdated IT systems and the culture of the Tax Administration, often stimulated by political calls for more anti-fraud. All this, despite the very good work done by the Tax Administration, can lead to very distressing situations, as we have seen in the supplement dossier. As long as we do not yet have a new system, the government and parliament must act prudently. I would like to mention a few points. We must confine ourselves to adding and amending rules. Performance tests must be carried out seriously. That's a job for the Secretary of State. We in Parliament must take them seriously. Of course, work needs to be done to get IT in order and simplify the processes of the Tax Administration. But above all, I ask the Secretary of State to introduce a prudent culture of handling and enforcement. As I indicated at the beginning of my contribution, it is very important for the Tax Administration to think and work from a human point of view in carrying out its work. This means extensive information on pre-schemes and a very accessible and well-equipped point of contact, with staff who are competent and who have the mandate to actually solve bottlenecks. And there must also be a system of enforcement that works on the basis of the same human measure: helpful, just, transparent and only strict and hard when it is possible to do so, taking into account the capacity of people. Here again based on the adadium: control is good, but trust even better. I look forward to the government answering my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mrs Van Huffelen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Geerdink for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. Taxes are of all times. They're mirroring the world we live in. If society changes, then taxes change. A society that changes faster than its tax system leads to unrest and protest. The same goes for the other way around. That's what makes taxes so interesting. People who work with the results of the decisions we make in this Chamber in the field of taxation are generally very sensitive to the effects of the world in which we live on tax law and vice versa. And that's what makes tax people so interesting. Mr. Chairman. As a fiscalist in this Chamber, on behalf of the VVD, it is a great honour for citizens and companies in the Netherlands to be able to assess tax legislation on its feasibility, legality and effectiveness. I am also doing this very explicitly for all the advisers and all the staff of the Tax Administration who are aware of the world in which they live and take into account the changes in understanding of good and evil, just and unjust. After studying fiscal economy in the 1990s, there were actually three vocational courses open: becoming an inspector at the Tax Administration, working as a tax advisor in an international or national tax advisory practice, or science. At that time, I chose the international advisory profession very consciously, because of the speed, creativity and the search and finding of solutions to complex issues. Even though the Tax Administration had excellent internal training opportunities at the time, it offered a certain, safe and peaceful existence for those seeking it. You're losing some friends and acquaintances with it, working at the IRS, but that didn't affect those who chose this career path. The generation of fiscalists before my generation was largely trained by the Tax Administration. Once again, the internal training of the Tax Administration was highly respected. And now you choose the Tax Administration if you like change and want to build an organization that will never go bankrupt. This means that there is hope for the Tax Administration, because people will eventually change the Tax Administration, not the systems. The only question is whether the Tax Administration can keep pace with the changes in society. That requires, as we have noticed, a huge cultural change. Over the next few years, we're gonna need good fiscalists, whether they're from the IRS or from the university. Because you can't really understand our tax system without advisors. This applies to people with jobs, to people working part-time, to people with benefits, to people with savings or investments, to people working cross-border, to self-employed people, to entrepreneurs, to major shareholders, to multinationals, to older people, to students and to all those who have a warm or perhaps less warm climate. Literally everyone should be able to understand the tax system independently. However, it has become so complicated that even ICT systems can no longer handle it. It has become so complex that the tax system cannot keep up with society. That complexity refers back to the implementation of the laws that we approve in this Chamber. Today we are assessing legislation that increases the administrative burden on entrepreneurs by an estimated 22 million euros and we hope that deterrent anti-abuse legislation will not prevent internationally oriented entrepreneurs from continuing to undertake in the Netherlands. The current legislation also includes new withholding taxes, postponement of promised tariff reductions and the introduction of various basic broadenings. The account will be deposited with the larger business community. Entrepreneurs who want to trade abroad have to deal with different tax systems and, fortunately and logically, seek advice. Advisors will have to report the structure best suited to the company's safety to the Tax Administration, on penalty of high fines and the risk of taking-and-shaming years later on top. The tax authorities want to know everything, in advance, by means of a declaration and by means of ex post control. The Dutch Big Brother, although it is the question whether the Tax Administration can handle it, overload this information. It is almost in this context that I say: almost understand that the names and numbers of officials who have brutally recovered childcare allowances are now being asked for. What kind of world did we end up in? The VVD is curious about the government's vision and expectations regarding the functioning and results of these measures. Is it not time to focus on clear and clear tax governance? Mr. Chairman. The working Dutchman receives a tax reduction because of the increase in the labour discount in particular. The self-employed also enjoy the advantages of the higher employment discount but loses the self-employed deduction step by step. This slide is interesting in itself, because it clears the way to the simpler two-disk system. This Tax Plan leads to a higher tax burden for internationally oriented companies in favour of the working Dutch and Dutch companies with real activities. The entrepreneurs who actually add value are the entrepreneurs who provide the jobs, let's not forget that they are responsible for the sustainable development of the climate and the environment and for the growth of broad prosperity for all of us. On the one hand, commitment to reducing the tax burden on citizens, on the other hand, skimming off the profits of larger companies, in addition to a comprehensive fraud and anti-abuse approach for potentially all companies engaged in international trade. This approach should be balanced. In addition to the fight against fraud, there is also a reduction in the tax burden on companies operating internationally. And-and-and-policy. For otherwise there is a chance that the good will suffer from the evil. Otherwise, the Netherlands will become a tax country. Tackling tax evasion is good, but it's wrong. The latter threatens to happen if, in principle, everything gets the stamp of abuse and fraud, if double taxation is applied to the purchase, if measures are no longer proportionate, huge documentation obligations are imposed and if there is insufficient or even no legal protection. This applies not only to the tax administration's charging practice. The government has noticed that this will lead to unrest. A clear signal. In view of the package of measures, the question is justified as to how we will continue to keep the Netherlands attractive as a country of establishment, without excluding ourselves from the market in the field of taxation at international level. How can we achieve a tight tax system that complies with the principles of neutrality, legal certainty, simplicity and recognition from the current, complex and expanded legislation? How will the government remain reliable if the course continues to change not only in the elections, but also in the interim, and the government does not press ahead and takes real steps towards a new, sustainable tax system rather than stacking research? As I said, it starts with the world in which we live and it has to come back mirrored in the tax system in the broad sense, so including those surcharges. So if there are new taxes coming from Europe, that will give rise to a review of the existing taxes in the Netherlands and a reduction in them, so that the overall picture is right again. The government holds the mirror and should not make it a smile mirror: then it is no longer a neutral mirror. It should not matter what legal form an entrepreneur takes. It should not matter whether it is undertaken with own funds or with debt. For the time being, it is best for the government to keep the mirror slightly off-set, if a socially-wide transition needs a push, as is now the case with the Climate Agreement, but even then the picture should not be distorted and the tax burden should not be disproportionate. Mr. Chairman. We now live in a time when people look in the mirror and no longer understand what they see. That is why I propose the following three adjustments/recommendations to the government, so that one can look straight back in the mirror. The first is: back to base. Taxation must be fair and public authorities must be reliable, both in terms of legislation and implementation. Secondly, do not allow the Netherlands to become a 'tax country', especially if the European Union rightly competes through tax systems. And three: let work and more work, wages. That's been said before tonight, too. A new tax system should put that aim at the centre. These three points are now being discussed in the context of the proposals that are now before us and the proposals that we know are going to come up with. The latter have already been mentioned. In addition, I put my finger on a crack in the current mirror here and there. I start with recommendation number one: taxes must be fair and the government must be trustworthy. We go back in time, because taxes are of all times, as said. In Roman times, Emperor Diocletian introduced a capital return tax to finance his wars. He raised so-called tributea. Tributa's tax base consisted of lists drawn up by senior officials at the last census. Those lists contain an addition of mainly material fixed assets, i.e. land, formerly slaves, cattle, stocks, tools and the like. The value of these assets was estimated and a percentage of them, usually 1%, had to be transferred as a tribute. Not so much the wealth was taxed, but the resources for production. That went well until the number of those who received that from the donors began to greatly exceed. This was because farmers' livelihoods had been consumed by the hugely heavy taxes. The fields were abandoned and arable land turned into forest. The tax base was actually destroyed by the Emperor's own tax system, even though it was a very simple tax levied on the basis of a list, a kind of Roman pre-filled declaration. The emperor thought it was an easy tax to collect. Compare the current box 3 legislation and the proposed adjustment of the box 3 charge with this Roman tribute. Savers and investors are taxed on a flat-rate basis on the basis of funds saved or invested. If too much is levied on more than the actual yields achieved, a flat-rate rate of return is not seen as a fair tax, as in Roman times, and social effects will occur. Box 3 is a flat-rate charge which has been declared by the Supreme Court to be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. It is very doubtful whether the 2017 law amendment would lead to a different assessment by the same Supreme Court. A complex adjustment of box 3 has been envisaged. This adaptation is complex because of the anti-arbitrage, so complex that it takes two years for the adjustment to be effective. Meanwhile, as the VVD Group predicts, investors and savers will anticipate, just as the fields were abandoned in Roman times. Why does the government not adapt in advance the tax base of box 3 which has been found socially unreasonable for years by simply introducing a temporary threshold exemption in addition to the current general exemption? In the meantime, box 3 can be converted into a tax on actually received returns. Only then will there be a fair tax. Then to the trustworthy government as a recommendation. "Reliable" means that you do what you promise and promise what you do. In that context, a coalition agreement is a promise. If you deviate from the coalition agreement, you don't do what you promise. Even if you shift measures over time, you don't do what you promise. Then you end up losing faith. A reliable government is also: balance between the recipient and the giver, taking into account the ever weaker legal position of the giver, being the taxpayer. In this context, the VVD considers, for example, that the current 4% rate of tax payable in income tax does not fit with a reliable, just government. The fact that the Tax Administration wants to have information in advance is not a problem in a transparent world, provided that the authorities, through the Tax Administration, also want to give their opinion in advance and in return on the tax consequences in situations that are complicated. This ensures clarity and tranquility and a climate in which at least entrepreneurs thrive best. This requires a service tax administration, whereby entrepreneurs and consultants receive a name and a telephone number from a decision-making contact person at the Tax Administration to agree in advance. That means we can really make it easier. The proposed increased storage of renewable energy, ODE for convenience, resulting from the Climate Agreement, is a final example. This is a measure with a shock effect that affects the image of a reliable government. The large tariff difference between two discs in the levy, combined with a change in the distribution between citizens and businesses, is expected to result in a very large increase in the burden burden on hospitals and healthcare companies, greenhouse horticulture, the food sector and chemicals. It is the unpredictability of the impact of the measure on the reliability of the government. Can the government explain why the measure was designed in this way and why it was not chosen to introduce the levy directly resulting from the Climate Agreement? Then to recommendation number two: tax legislation should not lead to a deterioration in the competitiveness of Dutch industry at European level. This brings me to the two legislative proposals based on the European Directives ATAD 2 and DAC6 on anti-abuse and reporting obligations for intermediaries and taxpayers. The proposals go beyond what is necessary on the basis of the European directives in a number of respects. The VVD Group has asked many questions about this in its written input. The VVD Group is very clear on this point: they lead to disproportionate measures that are very likely to be unsustainable in relation to European law and de facto put our entire business, not only multinationals but also SMEs, at a disadvantage, European and global. Why is that necessary, so we ask the government. And is the government prepared to take the headlines that were put on it again next year by means of repair legislation? We are curious about the Government's response and we are likely to table a motion on this in the second term. Finally, the third recommendation: simplicity as a characteristic of the true and focus on work. Our system of taxes and surcharges cracks and squeaks and the Tax Administration can't handle it anymore. A major reform of the tax and surcharge system has been under way in the United Kingdom since 2015. Over the past five years, work has been carried out towards a closing system with a so-called "living wave" combined with a "universal credit" and reduced taxes and contributions on labour. In short, it is about gradually increasing the minimum income to a level where you can live without state aid. Individual supplements are reduced and replaced by the so-called "universal credit" for people who are unable to work due to illness, disability or old age. At the same time, taxes and contributions on labour have been reduced, with the result that employment and employment rates have increased in the United Kingdom. Could this also work in the Netherlands? It's simple and executable. The VVD Group would like to hear the government's reaction to the transition of our neighbours across the North Sea. Good example leads to follow-up. It's time to think out of the box. This certainly applies to the necessary changes and adjustments to our Dutch tax and surcharge system. In the end, it comes down to courage, to courage, to take the step towards a thorough review. If the mirror is about to snap, don't wait for that to happen. Put a line on all these investigations. People are getting impatient. "There is no such thing as society: there are individual men and women, and there are families." The Iron Lady took the nail on the head: it's not about the system, it's not about the government, it's not about the mirror, it's about the people and businesses in the hands of people whose government demands a big contribution every year. Don't forget the benevolent and involved tax people, the employees of the Tax Administration and the fiscalists who advise. Be proud of it. We're gonna need them badly enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you, Mrs Geerdink. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied fiscal economy at the University of Groningen. After graduating, you started working as a tax advisor at two of the Big Four, as the large accountancy offices are classified quantitatively. At Ernst & Young you worked on international tax advice and at Deloitte with advice to medium-sized and large Dutch companies. In 1999 you took a trip to the government when you became senior policy officer at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You were project manager company follow-up and national project manager company window. You returned to tax advisory practice after four years when you became a tax advisor at Spigthoff. You were then director/owner of PWGA Strategic and tax advice for five years. The working group on what this is an abbreviation of is still working on its work. I assure your Chamber that I will inform you of the outcome. In 2014 you became director of Hefpunt, the organisation for the tax cooperation of water boards in the North of the Netherlands. Hefpunt then merged with the tax department of the municipality of Groningen. You became a quarter-minute maker and intended director of the new organization Northern Tax Office. The merger was completed on 1 January 2018. Six months ago, you resigned your post in connection with your membership of the Upper House of the VVD. Currently you are active as a supervisor at the Wilhelmina Hospital Assen and the Houdstermaatschappij Fondsen Overijssel. You are also a board member of the Liszt Concours Foundation and of the Henk de By Fonds that supports the international piano competition. Senatorship is not your first function as a representative of the people. From 2002 to 2006 you were chairman of the VVD municipal council in Amsterdam and from 2011 to 2014 in the Provincial States in Groningen. A dossier that you have been working on in those years is that of the consequences of gas extraction. You said to the Groningen Eye TV in 2013: "The most important thing is that people are safe and have the freedom to live wherever they want." Last week's earthquake in Garrelsweer once again demonstrated the importance of security and freedom. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that the other Members can congratulate you, and I congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u87	I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Usually maiden speeches are so beautiful that everyone is present, but this speech was so beautiful that everyone now seems to have been chased away. Anyway, all the faithful are still there. Soon, at the end of my speech, when Mrs Geerdink returns, I'm going to congratulate her on her beautiful maiden speech. Now that everything looks different, I'm gonna do it very differently. This time I am going to start by congratulating the legislative proposals aimed at preventing dishonesty, tackling crime, stopping money laundering and safeguarding the Netherlands as a transit country of false money. Of course, the legislative proposals that deal with such practices receive the full support of my group. There are also concerns about a few legislative proposals and I focus on a few things. These are the tax authorities, the taxation of citizens and something about business. I'll start with the IRS. Sometimes you are glad that you suddenly get help from unexpected side, like a few weeks ago, when Mr Klaver van GroenLinks came up with the bright idea to stop childcare allowances. I couldn't agree more. It is an impossible situation of pumping money around. Everyone's confused, even the IRS. The Secretary of State would probably have been very happy if this construction had never been conceived. However, Mr Klaver's solution to his good invasion is not ours. He wants to give everyone three days of free shelter, like that doesn't have to be paid. The billions deficit should be met by increasing corporate income tax, as if it were free money. The SGP has a better and much simpler idea. Apparently it is now also supported by the Labour Party. That's what I just heard. Let all these apply to child care allowances............................................................................................................................................................... That is an honest and transparent system that we have been using for decades. Can the Secretary of State respond to this suggestion? This idea isn't on its own. The childcare allowance scheme is only one of many. There are so many regulations, surcharges, discounts and charges. It has already been discussed during the General Financial Reviews. Then it was called a tombola, I believe. That was of course not in the sense of a lottery with which everyone always has a price, but in the sense of the grabbelton. There is no end to it and any new scheme, surcharge, discount or charge must be refunded by the Tax Administration. We have witnessed the mess that has arisen. And yet we can't just point to the Tax Office. I said it earlier tonight in an interruption. The cabinet and the parliament must also put their own hands into their own hands. The grabbelton was set up by the policy-makers, facilitated by the legislators and determined by the parliament. How are we supposed to get out of this situation? Is it the government's commitment to putting drastic austerity into this? Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to make suggestions to unravel the mess. These suggestions arose as a result of the previous exchange of views during the General Financial Reviews. I would remind you that I spoke at that time about unfair taxation for a single earner. You know, the situation that a earner with a modal income pays up to about six times as much tax as two earners who together earn the same salary. Typical case of messing with charges, discounts and so on. Unfortunately, the government has so far failed to address this inequality of treatment. Something has been set aside, which means that the development of purchasing power is now almost the same, but the unfair tax continues to exist. The gap between one- and two-earners is not eliminated. Mr Ester referred to the reduction in working hours. That has become a blunt instrument. Another major culprit from the grabbelton is the phasing out of the transferable general tax rebate as an incentive to get everyone to work. This phase-out is now starting in 2009. In the meantime, those who had to get into the labour market are really at work. But the phasing-out goes on and the transferability is now falling to 20%. In the meantime, the government is struggling to increase the purchasing power of two-earners and one-earners at the same time. This means that every year a new measure must be devised to ensure that the purchasing power of the single earner is in line with that of the two earner. Is it not time to stop this old policy and freeze the phasing-out of portability, for example at 20% next year? Mr. Chairman. It would be even better if we reversed the phasing-out in the coming years, so that something can be done about the huge gap between one and two earners. This gap is compounded by the income-dependent combination discount, the IACK. This is an instrument to promote participation in the labour market and the economic independence of partners. Can we not regard this as an outdated instrument? Can the Secretary of State undertake to investigate whether the IACK can now become a past tense? Or can the IACK be used in such a way that this discount does not further widen the gap between one and two earners? Mr. Chairman. This situation was also discussed during the General Financial Reviews. During that debate, the Secretary of State and the Minister always pointed out that research is currently running on the fiscal building blocks. This research will be launched in the spring of 2020. While that research is still ongoing, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared to have the researchers also look at the Joseph tax I mentioned. I have noticed that it requires some explanation, because in the Bible several persons are called Joseph. This is not about Joseph from the New Testament, who became the foster father of Jesus. It would be appropriate at this time of Advent to speak to each other about Joseph and Mary who went to Bethlehem, where Jesus was born in a stable. But today I'm talking about the Joseph of the Old Testament. I would, of course, like to congratulate Mrs Geerdink on her beautiful maiden speech. It was a little complicated at the beginning of my term to congratulate you. This Josef was far ahead of the Roman Tributa of Diocletian. It is about the Joseph economy, the hallmark of which is that it saves in good times so that in bad times the savings are made. Following that, I argued in favour of the Joseph tax. After all, the story about Joseph goes beyond saving and spending. I'm referring to Genesis 47. It says that Joseph has filled the grain barns of Egypt. When the crisis breaks out, he first sells wheat for money, then for cattle, for labor and then for land. When the Egyptians can't pay any more, Joseph comes again. He gives them free corn, but they have to pay 20% of the harvest. I call that a Joseph tax. It was for everyone, whether he had little or much land, much or little grain, good or bad harvest. In fact, the Joseph tax was a real flat tax, without any surcharges, levies, discounts and whatever else. My question is: can the idea of a real flat tax be taken into account when examining the tax building blocks, but different from what is currently envisaged, namely, in conjunction with the elimination of all kinds of charges and surcharges? Mr. Chairman. There is also another route conceivable. A lot of schemes run through family income. Think of rent and care allowance, but also the box 3 income can be divided between two partners at your own discretion. Only income tax is suddenly an individual scheme, which does not comply with the commitment people make within a marriage. This commitment seems to apply to the above-mentioned matters, but not to taxation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the option of raising income tax on the basis of family income in the study of the tax building blocks? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few comments on measures taken by industry. First of all, the increase in the burden on companies. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agrees that companies should also contribute a fair share, but let us not lose sight of the value of entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs are of great importance and SMEs are the engine of our economy. Not only do they earn money, but they also make a positive contribution. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also has a question about the situation regarding the levying of waste on imported waste and an urgent appeal to take the proposals of the sector seriously. Can the Secretary of State undertake to remain in dialogue with the sector on this matter? Finally, the Tax Measures Act Climate Agreement. Of course, there are aspects that deserve support, but this law brings in particular important sectors deeply into the problems of storage of renewable energy, the taxation of the regular energy tax on energy consumption. Companies, greenhouse horticulture, water boards and schools all face a heavy burden increase. How is it that, for example, greenhouse horticulture is suddenly confronted with this high burden increase? There seems to have been no prior consultation with those sectors with the greatest burden increase. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so in the future? I look forward to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u89	I was thinking about Mr Schalk's proposal to convert the child care allowance into child benefit. I was wondering if Mr Schalk is aware that part of that child benefit goes abroad, for example to countries like Morocco, which then no longer want to talk to you. Is Mr Schalk aware of this? Or does he believe, for example, with the PVV that there should be no child benefit abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u90	I am aware, I say to Mr Van Strien through the President, that family allowances do indeed flow abroad. We also discussed this in the previous Chamber, for example when it came to a treaty with Morocco. Mr Van Strien knows the SGP's vision on this. This may also apply to child allowances. And if it isn't, that's good. But when it comes to my proposal, it is mainly intended to ensure that there is a fair distribution of the allowances for all families. We are dealing with a situation in which, in fact, a supplement scheme has been devised that has led people into the labour market. Anyone who wanted to, they're gonna do it by now. Anyone who can't do that is in fact always being put at a disadvantage. That's why it would be much more honest if you increased child support for everyone. It is then possible to decide whether to use it to take care of the children themselves or to buy childcare through an approved company or through family.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u91	The SGP then realizes that part of it, which now goes to childcare, goes abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u92	I realise that we in this country have legislation that also affects situations abroad. I can imagine that if this suggestion were to be taken up, it would be looked very closely at whether these would be huge amounts and whether this would mean a very large increase in family allowances abroad. I can imagine the cabinet making good proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u93	About the Joseph tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u94	Yeah, it's nice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u95	It could be that history is going to repeat itself. I have sharp memories of the financial and fiscal duo of the CDA group in the Second Chamber at the time of Purple II, Mr Balkenende and Mr Reitsma, who were almost as famous as the then Secretary of State for Finance of the Den Uyl cabinet. They were very much for a Joseph tax, a flat tax. After long pressing, one of the first Cabinets-Balkenende then did an exercise on a Joseph tax. I still see the picture of the income effects in front of me: they really shot out all over the place. You're really talking about +25% or +30% or -40%. I'm sure the report is still somewhere in the Tax Affairs drawer at the Treasury. Those percentages are what we're talking about. Are you willing to accept that? My group never is. That is why the flat tax is an extremely bad idea. But now that Mr Schalk is so persevering, we have also heard him in the Financial Reviews, I must assume that we are going to enjoy this kind of screaming income effects of such a Joseph tax. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u96	Anyway, I'm not gonna be happy to hurt someone that's been bothering him a lot. Let's start with that. But honestly, I don't know the investigation back then. I cannot therefore fully assess whether Mr Balkenende was sufficiently aware of how the Joseph tax really was. For example, at the time, was there also an assumption that all fees and so on would be stopped, so that you really get a flat tax? So that's different than we're going through right now. We are now going to those two discs, and that is also called a kind of flat tax, but it is greatly influenced by all these surcharges and regulations. I very much dislike what Mrs Van Huffelen, for example, has also mentioned, namely the enormous, huge marginal pressure. Last year and the year before, it sometimes rose to 96% or even above 100%. If you grew from €22,000 to €32,000 in income, you gained about €450 of that €10,000 net. I did that last year. I find that kind of taxing as strange as the problems you might encounter when you start with a real flat tax. I understand there's trouble. My request is not to turn the button and do so from now on. But my request is whether this could be included in the investigation of the tax building blocks. A little creative dealing with these kinds of topics can't hurt. If there is a proper investigation at the time that Mr Balkenende was involved in, then those who are now doing research will surely find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u97	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u98	I think it was an investigation of Fiscal Affairs of Finance. Then you know the quality is high.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u99	Sure, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u100	So fine if we get that back in copy form. Then we'll see again that a flat tax giant redistribution effects has slash is extremely expensive. There's no way we can turn that off. My other question is about the surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u101	I'd like a quick question, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr Schalk also referred to the surcharges. That was indeed the next step that that same cabinet took at that time on the instructions of the CDA. The care allowance is the largest. It hits the largest number of civilians. Could Mr Schalk indicate to me how we can abolish it? Would it be conceivable that we would introduce again an income-dependent care premium, which we used to have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u103	We can go through all that kind of surcharges, but that is not what I intend to do with this debate. My call is to look at a flat tax that does not include income-dependent increases that are bothering us. If that leads to a very wondrous way of taxing, then I can imagine that the final conclusion will be that we should not do it. But for me it is not clear whether it is workable or not. I know that the Baltic States, for example, are working with them and that they are doing well, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you. We will have Mr Vendrik in his own term. I suspect this subject will come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u105	It's possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u106	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I now give the floor again to Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mrs Geerdink on her maiden speech and look forward to substantive discussions with her in the future. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and his officials for answering my questions correctly this time. Nevertheless, an unprecedented number of problematic issues remain: additional laws to comply with European directives and, above all, no trace of simplification of the tax system that has been called for for years. I will have to confine myself to discussing this in 17 minutes. The General Financial Reviews have already discussed in detail how purchasing power has fallen significantly behind economic growth in recent years. That's not gonna get any better because of climate hysteria. Giant expenses to be paid out of tax revenue. Our tax system itself also continues to go downhill. One of the causes is the madness of the supplemental system, created by the constant leveling urge. It has been discussed several times today. First of all, these increases, together with the income dependence of virtually all discounts, cause a bizarre marginal tax burden on the middle groups which works longer or sometimes works at all. In addition, the surcharge system causes the greatest possible problems in the executive sphere of the Tax Administration. A total of €12.8 billion in supplements is pumped around to 5 million households each year. That led to the final adoption, I read, of the unimaginable number of 2.3 million recoveries, together for about EUR 1 billion, of which 300 000 were coercive: seizures on houses, cars and so on. In another one and a half million cases, the surcharge proved to be too low, resulting in another 500 million in late payments. In more than half of the cases, the surcharge was incorrect. That is a bizarrely high number of errors, caused by swarming policies, resulting in desperate citizens and civil servants. In the meantime, this system has brought thousands of citizens both financially and emotionally to the brink of collapse. Mr. Chairman. I am not referring in the first place to the Tax Office. Those people are trained to collect money. The blame lies almost exclusively with politics and with the last Cabinets, which every year invent new forms of leveling and sharpening to further complicate the system and ultimately undermine the tax morale. Every year we talk about simplifying the system. Every year it gets more complicated. Every year promises are made that it will get better. Never has it been done to return the promised €1,000 euros. Let me repeat once again the question to the Secretary of State when this simplification will come. Or should we wait for a new cabinet to do this? In that case, that is an additional reason to hope that such a new cabinet will be there soon. Mr. Chairman. Box 3 is also one of the government's grabbedtons. There, citizens are partly expropriated because they have to pay more taxes than they have income on their assets. In doing so, the government is acting in violation of the ECHR, a treaty with which the Netherlands on the left is constantly waving with it at other times. I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Both this and the previous cabinet have made it a hobby, through annual increases in excise duties and/or VAT, to make life difficult for the whole of the Netherlands, but especially for the small middlemen throughout the border region. The large difference in the price of motor fuels and alcoholic beverages between the Netherlands and Germany and Belgium, on the one hand, and Belgium, on the other, that the last two cabinets have been created, not only the petrol pumps, but also the middlemen who are in the vicinity of those petrol pumps, have been closed down or condemned to a pitiful existence along the entire border area. This is another attempt to push the middle position further into the abyss. I can see it regularly with my own eyes, because I live 30 meters from the German border. We also see a further increase in tobacco duty. This increase is likely to result in lower than higher yields due to behavioural effects and illicit trafficking. I understand the Secretary of State has agreed to an evaluation across the street. Apart from the fact that that is of course mustard after the meal because by then a number of middlemen have already died, I ask the Secretary of State if he realizes that there is a combination effect. And cheaper petrol, cheaper drinks and cheaper cigarettes are driving more and more citizens across the border to buy in there, especially since purchasing power is already lagging behind our foreign neighbours because of the disastrous successive Rutte Cabinets. The entire middle class in the border area is affected by this. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the car tax. The cabinet promised about ten years ago that the purchase tax on cars, the bpm, would be phased out. This tax would have completely disappeared in 2018. That was another concrete-cast appointment. The previous Rutte cabinet promised to phase out the bpm in 2015. The purchase tax is considered fraud-proof when importing second-hand cars. In addition, many buyers try to reduce the tax by importing from abroad. That's why the previous Secretary of State for Finance wanted to get rid of it. Meanwhile, an entire industry has emerged of traders who import unused cars, with or without damage, from abroad and sell them with profit in the Netherlands, based on inimitable bpm calculations for young second-hand cars. We know from the reply: the Climate Agreement. This does not provide for a phasing-out of the bpm. Then our citizens will know that the Climate Agreement is creating both planned and unexpected burdens in all areas. Mr. Chairman. While CO emissions from new passenger cars are falling according to calculations by BOVAG and RAI Vereniging, the cabinet manages to raise hundreds of millions of extra bpm revenue annually, while that bpm has been made CO dependent. In 2016, a further 1.55 billion in bpm came into the treasury. In 2017, that was 2 billion euros. Last year revenue increased to EUR 2.27 billion. And this year, too, 2.3 billion is foreseen. That's an increase of 13.5%. All in all, in a short period of time, the cabinet raises more than 700 million euros per year in purchase tax. And that while the Secretary of State has claimed that the total bpm yield on the basis of the new CO measurement system remains the same compared to the estimated yield, which would be achieved on the basis of the old measurement system. Rara, how can I ask the Secretary of State? Can the Secretary of State imagine that this is yet another proof of the unreliability of the government for ordinary citizens? Mr. Chairman. I come to box 3: the interest and return stombola of this cabinet. We find large assets in pension funds and in the Quote 500. Both pension funds and the wealthy from the Quote know that large investors make good returns on average, of about 7% a year. In addition, we have the small saver, who currently gets at best 0.05% interest on his savings account. And we have the slightly richer middleman who sold his business and wants to finance his old age, among other things, because the greenhouses of the pension funds are locked. It now seems that the glossy wealth from the Quote leads to such envy and confusion among all righteous socialists that they see it all green and do not know what to do anymore. That is the most favourable explanation: Socialists love other people's money. I start with the pension funds, which manage the money of the ordinary Dutchman. In order to prevent this money from reaching the rightful owners of pension funds, they need to be unnecessarily poor with a total of 1,500 billion in capital. They have to act like they're gonna get the small saver's return out of box 3 over the next 100 years, or maybe even less, namely 0%, while the long-term returns, as I said, are about 7%. This is an attempt to cut down on pensioners, or at least to prevent them from being indexed. Then the small saver in box 3. It's being used for the percentage of the past. At an interest rate that has been falling for ten years, that is always higher than what he really caught, but because that is not enough for hollow jess, he gets the fiction split in his stomach that he invests for a third of his savings just as well as those pension funds or the people from the Quote. Then the two categories above in box 3. They are almost entirely accounted for on the returns of the pension funds and the people from the Quote. Finally, the powers from the Quote. They're not in box 3, they're in box 2. By the way, I hope, they pay VAT, payroll tax and I do not know what already and finally Vpb again and, as soon as they get the money from the company, another dividend tax. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is clear. At least the savers pay more tax on their bank accounts than what they receive in interest. Pure state theft, find duped taxpayers. An excessive charge, according to the Supreme Court, which, according to the highest tax court, cannot continue indefinitely. If you look at the impact of court rulings on nitrogen and pfas, you'd think the Secretary of State would take immediate action. But nothing could be further from the truth. The reason for this can be found in the progress report Charge box 3 based on real yield from 2017. It states what a tax based on actual return would have yielded in the past. There we see that such a tax would have meant, for example, in the 2008 crisis year that the government would have made a negative return of 8.8 billion. The real yield in that year was about 4 billion, so investors in that year.... that will do socialists good... have been robbed for about 13 billion. However, it was also foreseen at that time that in 2017 the revenue from a tax on the actual return would be 2 billion less if hypothetically introduced in the years 2017 to 2019 than a tax based on fantasy returns from then State Secretary Wiebes from the Rutte II cabinet. A terrifying prospect for Rutte II. But the deception continues today, with respite, delay, delay. Shameful and unnecessary, say experts. Read the letter from the NOB of 25 October last, I would say. Mr. Chairman. One of the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State, namely that the operation must be budget-neutral after a tax on real returns, is really bizarre to me. That looks like a thief who, after he's taken his loot, says, "I'll have to go to my next victim, because I work budget-neutrally." Mr. Chairman. Just a few last words about the storage of renewable energy, the ODE. With rising ODE rates, SMEs, horticulture and public authorities such as schools and hospitals, among others, are back on track. This energy tax is really the government's new milk cow. The car has been milked and energy needs everyone. All this in order to be able to scatter subsidies at taxpayers' expense in order to achieve a completely uncontrollable and therefore unfeasible and pointless goal, namely the reduction of CO emissions. This will soon come back to the enormous investments in the electricity grid, which are needed to return decentrally generated energy to the grid, even at times when no one in need of energy is going to be charged again. Even then, the ordinary citizen will be screwed again. Think, I ask this cabinet, of the purchasing power that has not risen for years. Mr President, I shall conclude. I hope that this cabinet will also ask itself this question of conscience: how long does it intend to go through with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I shall now give the floor to Mr Essers, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mr Geerdink on her maiden speech and wish her much pleasure and success in the continuation of her parliamentary membership. It is a great honour and pleasure for me to return to this place after three periods as a senator, from 2003 to 2015, and a First Chamber-free period from 2015 to 2019, as a re-enterer, and then on the subject of tax law, which I so much like. Many things change, even in this Chamber, but fortunately not the atmosphere of collegiality and the always existing willingness of your employees to support us. I look forward to continuing my parliamentary membership. Mr. Chairman. Fortiter in re, suaviter in modo. Strong in the business, smooth in the execution. That was long ago the motto of the National Tax Academy which was dissolved at the end of the 1960s. In fact, that motto has always been the motto of the Dutch Tax Administration. With that first part, strong in the business, it's okay with this cabinet. This is also reflected in this tax package, which we particularly appreciate, thanks also to the Minister for Finance. But what about the second part, flexibility in implementation? Expertise and perseverance, accompanied by reasonable execution and accessibility: the Tax Administration has always received a great deal of praise for this far beyond its own borders. However, if you are aware of the serious problems involved in the implementation of the surcharges, it seems that the flexibility in implementation is not the best way to use an understatement. Although the administration apparently knew that there were parents to whom the childcare allowance was withheld, although they were in good faith, they had to suffer the evils, as if the inevitable collateral damage were in a war situation. In conjunction with the rigid regulation of this supplement, the human measure was therefore far to be sought, with all the consequences. Even before the summer recess began, this Chamber also faced the consequences of other errors of the Tax Administration in the area of surcharges. That was with the child-related budget. For a long time there was no question of a smooth implementation of this budget and of correcting errors made by the tax authorities. There is still no question of a full recovery. Mistakes made more than five years ago are not compensated. For this, the defendants are referred to the civil court. Mr. Chairman. Where does this harsh posture come from? Perhaps it is out of too strong an attitude to tackle fraud and tax evasion? That might be possible, but it could not serve as a justification at all. It is therefore high time to think about unravelling the Supplements and Tax Administration and moving money flows from individual citizens to paying agencies, such as health insurance companies and housing corporations, if possible. We are anxiously waiting for the results of ongoing investigations and hope to discuss them with the Secretary of State soon. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what cultural changes are being pursued in the Tax Administration and what has happened to the recommendations of the Borstlap/Joustra report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u110	I am very pleased with this attitude of the CDA. I just said that the CDA was very keen on market prices for care, childcare and so on. You don't have that anymore. I'm glad. You give the solution I also indicated: do it directly through the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u111	One doesn't have to rule out the other. The extent of the surcharges that lead to those authorities is, of course, a story that you can still continue. So it doesn't necessarily mean that you send an amount to that authority separately from the individual situation. What matters is that you do not send citizens money that has to be recovered afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u112	It's two-and-a-half. Or the institutions get the money, and you say that, and I agree with that. They have to compete for the best quality, because you go with your child to the best childcare that you can find nearby, but then it is no longer dependent on income, because you can't ask private institutions to check the paycheck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u113	It is indeed one of the complications that you have privacy-sensitive information. That will have to be weighed against the advantages and disadvantages of the current system. I'm not saying that's the answer either. I am concerned that it seems obvious that instead of giving millions of citizens money that is actually a kind of advance, it should concentrate on one body.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u114	We only have a handful of health insurance companies in this country. You can see the population like this. The low-paid pay relatively much and then you make a responsible estimate on that basis and you compensate them and then the premium is much lower for everyone. So there are solutions. I'm glad you're back in the right camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u115	You're welcome. The rhetoric of collateral damage and the corresponding mentality in a war situation can also be seen in two legislative proposals which form part of the tax package that we are discussing today and tomorrow. These legislative proposals, the withholding tax on interest and royalties as well as ATAD 2 are referred to by the Government as "prohibitive levies." This means levies which, if they are good, will not yield anything in the budget because taxpayers will be careful to deal with them. That may be the case, but it remains perfectly conceivable that companies will be able to face these charges in practice. Certainly, fraud and aggressive tax avoidance must be combated, as the CDA Group is convinced and supports the Secretary of State, but because of the complexity of the provisions in question, it could also be dealt with as a bona fide company. All companies must check interest and royalty payments in all intragroup and determine whether or not the conditional withholding tax is applicable. If this does not lead to a disproportionate implementation burden, I ask the Secretary of State. Moreover, is the withholding tax law not likely that this law will have to be revised next year, even before it has been introduced, following the OECD's agreement on Pillar 2? Why not wait a year with this law? Does the Secretary of State not agree that as the OECD becomes increasingly involved in the distribution of charging rights, it is desirable that Parliament should be involved in advance when it comes to assessing and accepting OECD proposals? Nor is it unthinkable that, even if you do business with or from a country known as a tax port, this can be real activities. The fact that you will then have to pay the tax from these levies is one thing, but you also run the risk of double taxation. If this happens, the government believes there is nothing to do about it, even more so, it does not want to do anything about it. She does not see any room for introducing double taxation provisions in prohibitive levies, as Mrs Geerdink pointed out. It's your fault, big bump. But does such a hardness fit with the government we have in mind? Do demands of proportionality and reasonableness no longer need to be imposed on this type of legislation? Does it not fit in with the dignity and integrity of the government to take this into account, if only to prevent bona fide taxpayers from being hit extra hard? If you as a government criticize taxpayers and their advisors for their lack of moral standards, does that mean that as a government you have to forget your own standards of proper legislation and good governance, including the proportionality criterion? Shouldn't the government at least strive to avoid double taxation in implementation as much as possible? We would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this. In this context, we are also concerned about the future role of the judge. If the legislator states that the primary interest of certain charges is to prevent certain situations from occurring and that double taxation is permitted in the pursuit of that objective, can the court ignore this apparent intention of the legislator if it is to decide on disputes over these charges in the future? According to the Secretary of State, does the judge still have room for a reasonable and equitable approach if the legislator deliberately excluded this in his efforts to avoid tax? And is there still room for horizontal supervision, based on greater equivalence between the Tax Administration and companies and their advisers, if the same government is so irreconcilable? Can't you expect a similar reaction from citizens and their advisers back? In this context, we also point to the government's tendency every time an anti-abuse directive allows a Member State to opt for different options, consistently choose the option most burdensome to taxpayers and sometimes even go beyond what the directive allows. If this is not unnecessarily detrimental to Dutch competitiveness, we ask the Secretary of State. Can it be said in this context whether the efforts of the Netherlands to achieve a better image in Brussels have already produced any effects? Can a little more be said about the quantitative measurement of the effectiveness of the Dutch tax avoidance measures? And do we really think it is the duty of the tax inspector to make public the name of a tax advisor who has been fined an administrative offence? Does not such naming-and-saming actually lead to a professional ban and therefore does not impose a much greater penalty on those concerned than the administrative fine initially imposed? This goes even further than criminal law. Should such matters not be left primarily to the internal disciplinary law of the professions of tax advisers themselves? Don't get us wrong: the public must be warned against ill-advised advisors. But should the inspector do this or the professional organizations mentioned? We call for this to be put on the inspector's plate only in extreme cases, for example, in the case of advisers who do not belong to a professional organisation who repeatedly go wrong. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u116	Would Mr Essers agree that there is a great social responsibility for the profession itself? The OECD has intervened. I call the Panama Papers: the global system of tax avoidance has got completely out of hand. The advisers played a significant role in this. Isn't it time for one, I would almost say in CDA terms, ethical reveil in this sector? And for the realization that there is another side to tax advice practice, a social side, which could be much more expressed in the conversation, discussion, morality of the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u117	I can assure Mr Vendrik that this ethical reveil has been set in motion for a long time. One is truly convinced that advice to achieve as low a tax burden as possible, and in a very aggressive way, has long passed. In this respect, this legislative proposal has worked, because the professional organisations have explicitly offered to take this up on their own. They really have a well-developed disciplinary right. There is still room for improvement, but it is really not the case that they are acting as a group that is only looking for tax avoidance. We need tax advisers in this country very much to make the complex system feasible at all. So I would say that the dialogue between the Tax Administration and the tax advisors should continue in this area, in particular. That is in the best interest of all of us. Something similar, Mr President, applies to the obligation imposed on advisers to report to the tax authorities in good time opinions in the field of cross-border constructions on penalties for high penalties. Does this not mean that the balance of power between the consultant and the inspector is no longer being struck out in favour of the latter? Does this not threaten the risk of allowing tax legislation more quickly with retroactive effect, even if the government says in the reply that the policy in this area remains unchanged? Is there not a risk here that this legislation will be dealt with more quickly with retroactive effect? In this context, we ask the Secretary of State to confirm once again that the role of an inspector is quite different from that of an advisor. The latter shall represent the interests of his or her client within the limits of law and regulation. Such representation usually consists of ensuring that the consultant's clients are compliant and do not pay more taxes than is strictly necessary. I would like to stress that this must not exclude the application of moral standards by taxpayers and their advisers in our opinion. But the role of an inspector is above all a majestic one. The inspector should not choose a set-up in such a way that as much tax money as possible must be collected, as if he or she were a tax collector or tax collector from a long time ago. The inspector must act as a judge. The central question is how a judge would decide on the situation in dispute, taking into account the purpose and scope of the relevant legislation. Mr. Chairman. In addition to a reasonable government, citizens also have the right to a reliable government. Predictability of legislation is an important feature of the rule of law. To what extent is this now to be discussed, if the Secretary of State for Lower House questions in February of this year says that there is no reason to call into question the reduction in corporation tax rates promised last year, when he will return to this in September of the same year? We are not primarily concerned here with multinationals, but above all with SMEs, which have also been able to meet this commitment, even if the reduction in the low VAT rate continues at the rate originally announced. The same SMEs are also affected by the already introduced broadening of the corporate tax base to compensate for that tariff reduction, in the form of less loss relief options and further restrictions on the depreciation of own-use real estate. How does the Secretary of State view this? A similar phenomenon occurs at box 3. That has been mentioned before. Small savers have long been the victims of injustice caused by box 3, insisting that they were expected to have achieved a return of 4% for years, whereas that was actually unfeasible, except if one was willing to run major investment risks. The 2017 amendment partially repaired that injustice, albeit only for the future, not for the past. The latter, with retroactive effect, has recently been advocated by the parliamentary lawyer. In the new system as of 2017, a new injustice was introduced with the fiction that the more power you have, the more you are expected to invest riskily, resulting in a higher fictitious return. This fiction does not apply to many savers at all. The Supreme Court found box 3, at least as it looked before 2017, in its judgment of 14 June this year in circumstances contrary to Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR. There is strong evidence that there is a similar risk for the situation following the legal amendment of 2017. It goes without saying that citizens expect the government to do something about this injustice. We commend this Secretary of State for having actually devised and announced an alternative system for box 3, although there are still a lot of loose ends to it; we are undoubtedly going to talk about that. The problem is that this alternative system cannot be introduced until 1 January 2022 at the latest. We regret that it does not seem possible to include a concession in box 3 for the intervening years 2020 and 2021. Alternatives, such as a temporary increase in the general exemption, the introduction of a threshold exemption or the adjustment of the savings and investment tranches in box 3, are killed, according to the Secretary of State, either on implementing technical objections, because these are so-called structural changes which apparently cannot be introduced in the short term or on budgetary objections. If that is the case, there is nothing left but to wait for a possible change of structure in 2022, which is far from certain. In our opinion, this is undesirable. We are therefore challenging the Secretary of State and his officials to come up with a creative temporary solution in this debate in order to get out of this impasse. We also ask him to explain whether it really is the case that any adjustment to the system that goes beyond an increase in the general exemption is seen as a structural change which can only be introduced in two years' time. We can still imagine this in the complicated structural change proposed recently by the Secretary of State, which includes anti-abuse provisions. But does this also apply, for example, to the temporary introduction of a simple threshold exemption, whether or not with an adjustment of the savings and investment tranches?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u118	As we enter the atmosphere of challenges, I'm happy to join. May I challenge Mr Essers to think along with the idea of the budgetary neutral idea, because then we will help the Secretary of State; there will be a lot of relief next year and the following year anyway, so as to combine a higher duty-free foot with a progressive rate, for example from EUR 1 million? That could be running around. Deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u119	I do not always agree with Mr Van Strien, but I do agree with him on this point. I find it difficult to put budget neutrality first here. As a government, I am speaking in general because I am overcharged. We have assumed that people have a 4% return, when they haven't been able to make it for a long time. I am not in favour of blowing all kinds of holes in the budget. Premeditatedly, an increase in the exemption will take a lot of cold out of the air. Because of that budgetary argument, I would like to make it a threshold exemption, because you will no longer have that exemption above a certain limit. That progressive doesn't appeal to me that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u120	Then we won't get anywhere. If Mr Essers challenges the Secretary of State to come up with maximum creativity, I immediately believe that this has been done long ago, I may ask Mr Essers to take a step too. If that capital efficiency tax is to be adjusted, preferably by 1 January 2021, and not a year later, we still need to see if we can knit that puzzle together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u121	I am always prepared to think along and look at what would be the best solution on the basis of different budgetary implications. But I'm gonna put the ball first in the Treasury Department. We've already made some creative proposals. The Secretary of State says he can't make structural changes. We want them to be implemented as soon as possible by 2020. The budgetary argument then plays less part. An increase in the general exemption would have excessive budgetary consequences. So you're gonna have to think of something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u122	Mr. Vendrik, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u123	But the solution has just been wiped out by Mr Essers. Do something extra for those high returns. I say immediately: that is not so much about people's savings, because they often don't come to that border, no, it's about investors. We know very well what box 3 has been doing since the 1990s: totally ignoring all capital gains. They are indeed booked, except for one year, the year 2008, which Mr Van Strien talked about. The IRS isn't looking at that. There's never been raised. There is never a fair share. Could we perhaps, for once, accept a little bit of a progressive tariff around the tax treatment of wealth? Even though it is only temporarily on its way to a definitive solution with the building blocks that we have in hand this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u124	I'm gonna go one step further. There's already some sort of progression in box 3. The higher it gets, the higher the flat-rate return. There are savings and investment tranches in the different boxes of box 3. I imagine we're gonna expand that savings tranche a little bit and reduce those investment tranches in the first box and turn this around in the second box of box 3, so there's some compensation. It goes too far, I would like to stress once again, that we must compensate until the last euro for the injustice that has been done to people for many years. I'm quite willing to create some variation in those savings and investment tranches if it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u125	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u126	We thank the Secretary of State for his commitment in the memo following the report to the Tax Plan 2020 that in the event that the European Court of Human Rights considers box 3 for the years 2013 and 2014 to be in breach of Article 1 of the ECHR and in that context grants financial compensation for the years 2013 and 2014 to the complainants of that complaint, this concession is granted in accordance with all taxpayers covered by the mass objection procedure. It is only striking that the Secretary of State specifically mentions the years 2013 and 2014. I assume that this commitment also applies to the years 2015 and 2016. I'll ask the Secretary of State to confirm that. As part of the concerns of the waste sector about the inclusion of foreign waste in the waste tax, we have noted with approval that the government is discussing alternative measures for the future and making the waste management system in the Netherlands more future-proof. We ask the Secretary of State to say that he will keep the Chamber informed of the progress of this consultation. Mr. Chairman. We are very concerned about the disproportionate impact of the proposed increase in the storage of renewable energy taxes on a number of business sectors, including, in particular, greenhouse horticulture, but also the food processing industry, paper and chemistry. This could also affect SMEs. The additional costs can amount to as much as €130,000 per year! An increase of 177% in the rate. About all the spokesmen have pointed this out so far. Doesn't it threaten to lose sight of the human dimension here, too? In answering our questions, the cabinet consistently refers to the framework conditions set by the government for 2020 in the design of that levy. But if these kinds of draconian consequences occur, are the conditions right? Or isn't the timing at least too ambitious? Therefore, it is also important that this tariff increase has apparently not been part of discussions and agreements in the 2030 Climate Agreement. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether this is indeed the case. Has this increase been part of the negotiations under the Climate Agreement? We urge the Cabinet to examine the possibilities for reducing and possibly temporizing this extreme increase in charges and to consult with the affected sectors and to inform the Chamber about the progress of these consultations. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. There are many parts of this tax package with which we fully agree. This is certainly true of the measures which lead to a reduction in the burden on citizens. With regard to the 'fortiter in re', we support this Secretary of State. We strongly call for attention to be paid to the re-establishment of the'suaviter in modo' and hence to the human dimension in contact with taxpayers and to respect the essential requirements of proportionality and legal protection for the functioning of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u127	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I give the floor to Mr Vendrik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Let me congratulate Mrs Geerdink on her maiden speech. That sounded like a pretty clear VVD story. Her eloquence surprised me, especially the reference to Mrs Thatcher. It is widely known as an icon of neoliberalism, which was no longer seen by Mr Dijkhoff at the last General Reviews as the great source of inspiration for the VVD. It would be nice if we could have heard from the VVD about what has happened in the last 30 years since Thatcher's arrival, the process of global tax evasion. We see rates on capital falling everywhere. Everywhere we see that states are less and less able to raise capital and capital, with the result that labour is being taxed more and more heavily and that we are talking about marginal pressure for the hundredth time here today. How crazy is that? That project has gotten completely out of hand. It is time for a different course and in that sense we welcome this Secretary of State and some of the legislative proposals that are before us today to do something about the worst results of that neoliberal project and to present the Netherlands globally in a different capacity, namely as a country that, also fiscally, stands for fair share, also towards large companies, which contribute so little or nothing. (NL) Mr President, that said, the tax system needs large-scale renewal. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, during the General Financial Reviews, I supported the centralisation of the promotion of broad prosperity. All institutions should contribute to this, and so should the tax This means, in essence, two things: the tax system should contribute to the transition to a circular, CO-free, green economy through a robust, comprehensive and far-reaching greening. The climate summit in Madrid this week once again underlines the urgency of this. And broad prosperity demands a fiscal policy that fights inequality. The economist Joseph Stiglitz sees his latest book that has recently been published, entitled Profit for All, progressive capitalism in a time of discontent................................................................................................................................................................................ Inequality is bad for a country's economic performance. I ask the Secretary of State if the Cabinet agrees with Joseph Stiglitz's analysis. In this context CBS has recently shown with a study how the factor of capital, including in the Netherlands, pays less and less. Does the Secretary of State recognise that this is a confirmation of a structural imbalance in the tax burden on labour versus capital? The fiscal renewal agenda has been seen in such a way: strong greening, more balance in fiscal pressure between capital and labour, the work of Mr Ter Haar and his committee, an agenda for an inclusive labour market (Borstlap), more balance in pressure on high and low incomes, tackling capital inequality, reducing marginal pressure, an old problem, solving the cash-in problem, which has been going on for many years for working people around the minimum, solving the supplement drama and a significant reduction in complexity. These are basically the great desires we have for a new tax system. This should, in particular, promote comprehensibility and implementation in such a way that the system has a sufficient public face. The building block exercise that is now under way, as we understand it, must provide a handhold for that. And then what? Is the Secretary of State going to venture on a first fiscal agenda for the future? Does he leave that to another cabinet? It is also very relevant to see what the Tax Administration can actually handle over the next five years or perhaps over the next ten years. Nice plans, but can they be carried out in practice? I've asked that question before to the Secretary of State. Now I'm only going to do it once again with the same urgency: how can he facilitate the political process over the next two or three years with regard to this extremely relevant question? The surcharges are also relevant. That has already been mentioned by colleagues. Once again, we look forward to ibo-2 and assume that it also looks at fundamental and far-reaching options: the lifting of surcharges. Childcare can be free, the care allowance can be proposed via an income-dependent care premium and related. I assume this is part of the exercise and ask the Secretary of State for confirmation in order to be sure. Especially after I have just heard Mr Essers, the political importance of this is increasing. Does the Secretary of State also see that there is an important route here in tackling the high marginal pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u129	These are all very important issues, including the marginal pressure. But how is this free childcare paid? Isn't it paid or someone else's?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u130	It is, of course, paid out of the public purse, just like the childcare allowance is paid out of the public cash. You take those resources to a public childcare facility. This is in line with the famous Van Aartsen/Bos motion to open the education system to two- to four-year-olds and actually to increase education. Then education and childcare go hand in hand. That is an old desire of many political groups. It's time we took a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u131	And then zero to two?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u132	That group is definitely part of it. Sure. Mr. Chairman. Then over box three. I'm a little reluctant about it myself. Let me just put it this way. The bank I work for sent him a letter precisely about the Secretary of State's proposal. There are, of course, a few worries about that. So I'm staying out of it. I repeat, however, the plea of the GroenLinks Group from the House of Representatives, which has just been exchanged with Mr Essers, which prefers an increase in the free-foot rate with a progressive rate in the short term. That could be budget-neutral and fair. Why doesn't the Secretary of State do that? There is room for some coalition groups, so I have the impression. We hope that the building block exercise will give a good lead for the transition to real returns. That has been promised in the coalition agreement, but is still not on the table. It's time to really take that step. This is not just about real returns, but also about real capital gains as far as my group is concerned. This was also part of the proposal that we made 20 years ago at IB 2001 and the fiscal debate on this issue. However, a majority decided differently. I would also ask the Secretary of State if the new taxonomy for financial products agreed in Brussels last week in the trialogue between the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States could be a point of reference for box 3. This creates an official classification for investment products, and probably later for savings products, on which financial institutions will have to report. It'll be mandatory. As I understand the compromise that these three parties have put on the table, there are three de facto four groups of economic activities, measured by the degree of sustainability. That is the heart of taxonomy and it is an important step forward in many respects. This is also where a new organisation is created in the market for investment products. Just thinking through, you could also count on different flat-rate returns here. Greening via box 3; how interesting is that! Is this a line of thought that the Secretary of State can imagine? Would he at least like to present them actively to the building block club? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has laid down a comprehensive tax package. I am pleased to note that the cabinet has included several parts of the tax proposals in six separate legislative proposals. That's a fair way of doing things. That's the spirit. Thank you for that. Colleagues have already said that we are somewhat less happy with the size of this package. In particular, this applies to the three implementing laws that were immediately sent along with the whole 2020 package. I understand that the Secretary of State is also aware of this, witnessing the response. Let me stress once again the importance of this. This development of legislation at the end of the year is not really good for quality. I invite the Secretary of State to confirm again tomorrow morning that he is really doing everything he can to avoid repetition. Mr. Chairman. With the Tax Plan 2020, the cabinet is heading in a different direction than last year. Citizens and households will benefit from the reduction of burdens rather than business by 2020. My group sees this as a step forward at a time when inequality between capital and labour is so high on the agenda. Last year's tax package is therefore largely adjusted in the right direction. The Prime Minister indicated earlier this year that it is now high time for workers to be able to face substantial wage increases next year. We agree with the Prime Minister. We assume the cabinet sees this as well. After all, it is the Prime Minister. We understand the Prime Minister in such a way that this increase will have to be substantial enough by 2020 if there is to be sufficient legitimacy in 2021 for a reduction in the overall tax rate for profits. For what, I'll tell you what. We understand that. Now that lower vpb rate for next year, 2021, is already in this proposal on the tax package 2020. As a result, the rate reduction for 2020 agreed last year is off the table. That is a good thing. Also, next year's planned decline is less than is currently foreseen in the current law for 2020. That's profit. But the Prime Minister's words suggest more, namely that next year's cabinet explicitly considers whether the contract wage increase by 2020 is sufficiently substantial and in that light whether the proposed reduction in the VPB rate in the bill is now justified. I would say that at least there should be an increase of 3%. The Vice-President says 2.5%. It must be substantial and yet quickly 3% or more. Is this the route the cabinet is going to take here? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. A less appealing proposal concerns the reduction in the top rate of income tax to 49.5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u133	I would like to ask Mr Vendrik a question about the entrepreneurs. He and his group in the House of Representatives say that companies are paying less and less, given the international competitiveness and the reduction in the Vpb tariff. That wasn't done with a half-percent increase in wages, was it? As a result, it is not even a compensation for what the workers are paying. You know that the employees are going to pay an additional 4.5 billion. So this year's present is smaller than what one has to pay. The balance between labour and capital income will not be restored, will it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u134	As I have just said, if this bill does not pass, the standing law, as it did last year on the occasion of the 2019 Tax Plan, will also prevail through this Chamber. Our groups voted against it. This year, the fall in the Vpb tariff will begin immediately. In this respect, the current draft tax package for 2020 is a step forward. Is that ideal? No, but it's better than what the standing law now commands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u135	You are right to say that we are now deciding on a reduction in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u136	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u137	In fact, you say that if 0.5% of wages were added to the estimate in August, then it is good. But we're already seeing wages rise harder now, which was in the paper this weekend, so that's what they've got in there. Then these companies would not have contributed to the delays they have experienced in international competition, the reduction of the VPB tariff, and so on. As you said, the CBS shows that companies are paying less and less. I have just mentioned all this in my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u138	This point has of course also been exchanged in the House of Representatives. My colleagues there, including Mr Crone's colleagues, have tried to get a majority in common to get this part out of the tax package for 2021. That failed. Now the whole package is ahead of us. My question is whether the planned reduction in the profit tax rate in 2021, which is less than the current reduction for 2020, will continue, or whether the cabinet will still consider whether business will do enough in terms of wage increases. That's my question. I am assuming that I have understood the Prime Minister that there will be such a moment next year and that, even if it is in the legislative proposal today and we cannot get it out in the First Chamber, the cabinet will look at it again. That's how I looked at the Prime Minister's words. I ask the Secretary of State if I have understood that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u139	Mr Crone, please go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u140	I am pleased with this answer, because then we will hang out together. The increase in wages should be sufficient. But I also include the shift in the tax mix, which is very much in favour of capital income versus labour income. We can at least make sure that this doesn't happen next August together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u141	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u142	We're not together, but you're probably talking about Mr Vendrik. I call Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u143	I think it is wise that Mr Crone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u144	I would also like to involve you personally in the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u145	Of course, this remains a big point for my group. Mr. Chairman. A less appealing proposal concerns the reduction in the top rate of income tax to 49.5%. Last year this decline was recorded for next year. This bill brings forward the decline for a year. That is the material meaning of that part of the tax package. In the cabinet's view, this decline is justified by the fall in the marginal rate at which deductions can be paid. This marginal rate falls by 3 percentage points per year in accordance with the government agreement. This is relevant, for example, for the deduction of one's own house, which used to be, but fortunately less and less, especially something for the wallet of the highest incomes. That's a nice decision from the cabinet. This marginal rate will be 46% by 2020. Now that the drop in the top rate is being brought forward to 49.5% a year, there will be an extra plus for the higher income groups next year. That's not pretty. The question is what this means for the year 2021. The marginal rate will then fall again by 3 percentage points, to 43%. This will be reflected in the purchasing power figures by the government next summer. Can I assume that the cabinet will not compensate for this effect of the reduction of the marginal rate in 2021, as this compensation is already being offered? I'd like a response. That, too, requires clarity from the cabinet. In the written procedure, my group called for attention to be paid to the problem of payment. An old problem, which is increasing for people with relatively low incomes, especially but not only for single parents, for example, who cannot or cannot fully redeem the standing tax rebates. This problem is increasing to the value of 300 million as a result of the increase in the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. That's a big deal. It concerns people with low income from work or benefits, such as the Wajong, for whom relief is most needed, but which as an instrument is the least effective. The Secretary of State reports that in the written replies, but he does not draw any conclusion or assessment. I'm asking him to do this. Are there no other routes conceivable to help those for whom relief is most desirable here? Mr. Chairman. Then the housing corporations. For years, my group has been surprised that housing corporations are seen as profit-making institutions that are subject to VPB and are therefore subject to ATAD 1 and the Earnings Stripping measure. About ten years ago, with the agreement of the Member States, Europe made a debatable choice as far as we are concerned about the positioning of housing corporations, and we do not seem to be getting rid of that for the time being. All this is now more pressing than ever with the housing market shortages. And that is reinforced once again by the sustainability challenge that follows from the Climate Agreement. We understand that the cabinet now, on the instructions of the Dutch Parliamentary Motion-Ronnes, takes stock of the climate forecast for housing corporations. In a few months, so by summer, we'll hear more about that. The GroenLinks Group assumes that this exercise will teach that housing corporations will need much more space in the coming years to fulfil their social task and to be at the forefront of the sustainability of the built environment. Does the cabinet then return to the discussion with the European Commission, which has now taken on new membership and has chosen climate as a spearhead? Mr. Chairman. This also affects the future of the landlord tax. The cabinet is now offering a tax reduction of EUR 100 million for new construction, one billion for ten years, to be allocated through regions, and an exemption for temporary housing. If the sustainability statement of the housing corporations will come into focus, we would like to see much more fundamental steps: to offer far more substantial tax reductions in return for a maximum contribution to the sustainability of the built environment. Is that on the Cabinet agenda now? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the other parts of the whole package. In my group's view, the disclosure of criminal penalties is a tough but good step to ensure that tax advisory offices are kept up to date. My question is: I have just spoken about it in the course of the interruption towards Mr Essers.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Globally, tax avoidance has gotten way out of hand and is an important source of further inequality and lack of fair share in many countries. Whatever you think of it, the industry has actually played an important facilitating role in this. It is well known that, fortunately, some advisors are no longer trying, or are no longer trying, to seek the very limits of tax legislation. I find that encouraging, and that can be seen and encouraged. I understand that the Secretary of State is organising a nice seminar on this on 30 January, but more is needed. For example, would he like to invite the sector to provide a "code of responsible advice"? But other suggestions are also conceivable. Mr. Chairman. Writtenly, we asked what would happen when switching to the new WLTP test method, while maintaining the current bpm per unit CO. The Secretary of State would say that this would yield 2 billion dollars. That's interesting, but the cabinet doesn't want that. That is amazing, because then the conclusion must be that this new test method, which gives a better view of the actual CO performance of the different models, has actually been levied too little in the past. Emissions were higher than originally seen. If you put that principle of budgetary neutrality first, then, on balance, a lower CO levy will be reflected in the bpm. But that can't be the intention of this green Secretary of State, can it? I'm asking him for an explanation. Mr. Chairman. I come to the climate agreement package. My group sees this package as a step forward. There has been a gradual transformation of the energy tax, the increase in the return rate, what we have long argued for since the arrival of this cabinet and a reform of the ODE with a greater contribution from business. It is right that the same business should also be entitled to the extended SDE++, as is now regulated by the Climate Agreement. The cabinet opts for a reduction in the promotion of the purchase and use of electric cars and measures will be taken for the second-hand market. Can I assume that in these measures we do not yet know exactly what these are also involved in the conversion of fossil cars to electric cars? That's a Dutch market. Dutch companies are involved in this. That's nice new circular employment. In any case, I understand from the answer given by the Secretary of State that these converted cars are becoming more and more motor vehicles, provided that they are fully CO-free, fully integrated into the existing EV systems for vehicle tax and add-on. I think that's good news. Now there's this next step. Please respond. Eventually it is inevitable to switch to charging, also given the expected increase in the share of electric cars in the fleet. I'm so glad to hear that word again. This is now recognised by the cabinet. In 2010 there was a brilliantly good bill from then CDA Minister Eurlings on the table. Otherwise, it was called paying for Mobility. Because of the cabinet crisis, it disappeared in a deep drawer. Is that a new source of inspiration for this Secretary of State? After ten years of taboo, does the cabinet pick up this thread again? In relation to the ODE, I still have two connected points. The Empire intends to grant subsidies for CO storage. This may mean that companies in the port of Rotterdam, for example, prefer to store the CO in empty natural gas fields instead of supplying this CO to gardeners, whereas that is actually better for the climate. What's the deal with that? The shift of the ODE from private individuals to companies and the design chosen by the cabinet in the horticultural sector lead in particular to a higher tax on the use of electricity. Isn't that strange, I ask the Secretary of State. Isn't it more logical to tax the use of natural gas? Because electricity is now becoming more expensive, it becomes interesting for gardeners to turn on wkk-installations themselves. I don't think that's the idea. Please respond. Mr President, I see that I am running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u146	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u147	I repeat the questions that have just been raised by my fellow Members regarding the waste tax. I did not find the reply of the Secretary of State very clear, but also the reference to Mrs Stientje van Veldhoven's letter, except that there was no time for consultation. I think it's a little too serious to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u148	I'd like to come back to box 3. Capital gains are now not covered by box 3, said Mr Vendrik. But someone who makes capital gains, of course, has a higher capacity and that is taxed in box 3. Furthermore, before Box 3 was introduced, capital gains were indeed not included in the charges at all. Does Mr Vendrik therefore agree with me that at least we have taken a step in the right direction with the introduction of box 3? Then I have a follow-up question regarding the capital gains. Does he also consider that capital losses should be fully deductible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u149	Sure. That was also part of the plan that I was working on 20 years ago across the street. That's part of the game. Capital gains are of course part of the basis for a very small part. Mr Essers is right about that. But, of course, that is not a serious charge. What has always fascinated me is that we have been living in an increasingly wealthy country over the past few decades, not only for the Netherlands, but also for other countries, while at the same time trying to reduce taxes on capital. That's what you saw in the ongoing taboo about the subsidy on your own house, the mortgage interest deduction. It took years to do something about that. That's gonna cost a lot of money. We subsidise standing in the car, sitting still in a house. Finally, there has been movement in that. Adult tax treatment of assets is part of this. If investors book a return of 10% in one year, that means, as far as I am concerned, that this is 10% income and should be taxed accordingly. That also means that the IRS reports if there is a year of loss. That's how we do it in box 2. That's how we do it in the Vpb. That's the principle of carrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u150	Thank you. So the answer is yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u151	The answer is yes, but Mr Essers wants to know more about it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u152	One more comment. So that means that you can forget about the stable yield that the government is aiming for with box 3. Think about the financial crisis we've had.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u153	That's what the government's for. It is amazing that the importance of stable public finances in years and years is more important than the economy and society, for which we have created the government. That is precisely what we need a good fiscal policy for. That is what we have budgetary policy for: to stabilise an economy and a society. The people who in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 were left with a residual debt were not helped by the banks but had to solve it themselves. For them, the tax counter was completely closed. In a society of solidarity, it would have made sense if we had helped those people through a settlement of the loss of the rest of the debt. But that also includes the fact that in good times, when people get bonuses and make capital gains, they are levied in a decent way. We don't do either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Once again the answer was yes, I think. Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Geerdink on her maiden speech. Her speech with quotes by Margaret Thatcher reminded me of another famous quote by Margaret Thatcher, which is also very topical, given the previous speaker: "The problem with socialism is that eventually you run out of other people's money." I'd like to give that to a number of people here. The tax must of course be earned first. Mr. Chairman. Let's have a helicopter view of what has happened to the Dutch tax system over the past decade and how this has turned into an impenetrable, inimitable and unexecutable jungle of surcharges, tax rebates, flat-rate returns, ODE taxes etc., etc. No wonder most people can't tie a rope to it anymore. The tax system has been made far too opaque and complex, certainly not least by politics, which means that it has missed its goal and has become a brake on economic dynamism and innovation in the Netherlands. Working, and certainly more work, is totally inadequate due to the excessive marginal tax burden, which in some cases amounts to 127%. That is, if you earn €1 more, you have to pay €1.27 extra tax. Madness! That can never be the intention, of course, but this is now reality in the Netherlands. Politics has created a system that is far too complex. In aviation we know how thin the margins are when an aircraft flies at its ceiling, at maximum altitude. When a fully loaded Boeing flies at its maximum altitude, the margins for errors are flash thin: a few kilometers too fast or too slow and the plane quickly gets into trouble. It may end up in a dive flight where no recovery is possible. Pilots call such a situation the coffee corner. If you get in there, it looks bleak for the passengers and the crew. The first thing that needs to happen when something like this happens is to go down quickly and fly at lower altitudes, so that the margins get much bigger again and the situation quickly becomes less complex. I use this as an example, because it reminds me of the situation in the Tax Administration and of our far too complex tax system. This must be reduced very quickly, so that taxpayers can understand what is happening and create a more transparent system, where everyone knows where they are going. Under pressure from politics, the Tax Administration has introduced increasingly complicated and disruptive rules that are putting the feasibility to the test. Even the citizens are gradually unable to get a grip on it. In order to enhance the joy of celebration, the Tax Administration has been run for many years by a bunch of VVD pilots called Wiebes and Weekers. Menno Snel is now allowed to masturbate the augias stable of Wiebes and Weekers, this illustrious VVD duo that the Tax Administration has brought to the edge of the abyss, and we think it does as well as it can. We wish him every success in that. But Wiebes doesn't stop there. He is also determined to lead the Dutch economy and in the wake of this party to the destruction of the VVD. Brand new, billion-dollar, super-efficient Dutch coal power stations are closed under the Wiebes regime and billions of tax money is pumped into government funds such as Invest-NL by Wouter Bos and another 50 billion into the Wiebesfonds, if this Chamber does not stop at that. Money to be used for relief, for workers and pensioners, for those who have paid the account of the crisis and for the cut-off policy of the Rutte Cabinets. I have some questions for the Secretary of State. Why has he already started phasing out the self-employed deduction, while the Borstlap Committee, the former economic advisor of Prime Minister Lubbers and former member of the Council of State, who is investigating this, has not even completed its investigation, I ask the Secretary of State. Secondly, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for the storage of renewable energy, the ODE, it has already been discussed before, and in particular the very unbalanced burden increase in the proposed Tax Plan. The large consumers of the industry are spared. Their rate, the fourth disc, goes up relatively little. Electricity goes from 3 to 4 cents per kilowatt hour, but SMEs get the full hit: in the third disc up to 10 million kilowatt hours, the rate goes from 0.74 cents to as much as 2.05 cents, an increase of as much as 177%, as has already been mentioned. The rate of natural gas in greenhouse horticulture also rises enormously in the third disc: from 0.59 cents to 2.12 cents, an increase of as much as 260%. This has a huge impact on the earning capacity of our greenhouse horticulture. According to recent Rabobank research, this could lead to decreases in the EBITDA margins of up to 12% for greenhouse horticulture companies. Well, that's a huge impact. Mr. Chairman. In addition, it will make it impossible for these companies to invest in climate action and thus completely counterproductive. Our question to the Secretary of State is therefore to first explain to this Chamber how these rates have been established. This increase in ODE has caused a lot of unrest in greenhouse horticulture, the cardboard industry and a lot of other sectors. We would like to receive an explanation from the Secretary of State about these unbalanced increases, which can be disastrous for SMEs in particular. I also have a question about the introduction of the minimum capital regime for banks and insurers. Can the Secretary of State inform us of the impact of this measure on lending, in particular on lending to SMEs andzzp'ers? Surely I can assume that the Ministry has investigated this impact? I'd like an answer. Mr. Chairman. What must be done, then, to get things moving again? First of all, simplify the far too complex tax system. Increases, once introduced by Minister Zalm in the Balkenende II cabinet, were intended for up to 1 million poignant cases. More than 7 million Dutch already use the surcharge system. It's totally out of control. It has been recalled earlier in this debate that the tax system is so complicated that most people can no longer see the forest through the trees. The Secretary of State recently said that he hoped that in ten years' time the supplement system would cease to exist, a wish which seems to be being borne more and more widely. Our group therefore welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State shares our diagnosis of the problems in this regard. We have already tabled a motion on this subject during the General Financial Reviews. The Secretary of State told us that there is already an investigation going on. Can the Secretary of State give us an update on what's going on with the investigation? Could this investigation possibly be speeded up? And if not, why not? I think there is a real need for clarity now. Mr President, I will conclude. The current tax system undermines our economic growth and labour productivity. It is therefore necessary to introduce a drastic simplification, with higher tax reductions, lower rates and a substantial cut-off in the surcharge system. If the PVV Group is to meet, I will continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u156	It's annoying, indeed, Mr. Otten, when people are talking next to you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said, there needs to be a hefty pruning in the supplement system, so that it really is going to pay again to work and do business. Then the potential present in the Netherlands is given plenty of space to develop. We're going to finance that by making substantial cuts in public administration expenditure. The administrative density in the Netherlands is very high. The Netherlands spends 10% of GDP per year, EUR 80 billion, on the public administration of this country. It could be a little less. Not all at once, but that amount can be reduced by a fixed percentage per year, so that this money can benefit workers and pensioners, who have been allowed to cough up the bill for the policy mistakes of the Rutte cabinet so far. The only sector that has grown enormously under the Rutte Cabinets is the government, at the expense of the private sector. This must be reversed in the years to come, so that more money will be spent on Dutch citizens. That is what GO will be committed to in the coming years, with concrete and constructive solutions for more dynamism and strength in the Netherlands. It is now time for realism, ratio and direction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u159	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Senator Geerdink. For the substantive comment I would like to join colleague Vendrik: there is definitely such a thing as society. Otherwise, as a politician, we could drop the ball. What are taxes different than to finance needs that we collectively have as a society? Mr. Chairman. Taxation is at the heart of the relationship between government and citizens. This makes parliamentary treatment of the Tax Plan a serious task. However, it has been recalled earlier this evening, the question is whether we can still carry out this task properly. We're dealing with eight legislative proposals here today. And even more than in previous years it has to be with steam and boiling water. Several spokesmen in the Lower House also complained about the short treatment period, but with us it was much shorter. Our role as co-legislator is so seriously compromised and our budget law is de facto undermined. Our Finance Committee itself agreed to examine the separate legislative proposals ATAD 2 and DAC6 at the same time as the actual package, but this was under great pressure from the implementation deadline of 1 January. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then, at the beginning, I would like to say something about the abuses in the Tax Office. It has been discussed several times this evening. It is not directly on the agenda, but we need to talk about it. We can adopt new tax laws here next week, but what about the feasibility? A lot has been going wrong in the implementation for years. The main problem with the Tax Administration is perhaps that the service responsible for collecting taxes is at the same time charged with issuing them through all kinds of surcharges. This pumping of money is inefficient and involves many complex regulations and red tape. Moreover, in the scandal surrounding the childcare allowance, we have seen that it can also go horribly wrong, with dramatic consequences for probably thousands of families. The image of a reliable government based on human standards has once again suffered enormous damage. The Donner Committee has finally recognised this suffering and, fortunately, compensation will also be provided, but confidence in the Tax Administration is not yet restored. The Secretary of State discussed it in detail with the House of Representatives last week. However, I would like to ask the following questions. How is it that we still do not know how many people have actually affected this? When will the Secretary of State know? Secondly, and with all due respect for the work of the Donner Committee so far, this committee set up by the State Secretary is mainly research data dependent on the Tax Administration. How well has that committee been set up to get to the bottom of everything and how independent can it operate? As far as my group is concerned, in the light of these questions, a parliamentary inquiry into a parliamentary inquiry would be a better means. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the legislation before us. He does not vote for the most important part either. The SP attaches importance to a society based on equality and solidarity, which means that we want to keep socio-economic differences small. Fortunately, we now have a progressive tax system in the Netherlands. But what does the government do while inequality in the market develops? To make the system less progressive. The top rate is reduced by no less than 2.25% while the lowest rate is increased. As far as the SP is concerned, that's the world upside down. Can the government really justify these choices? The neoliberal Forum for Democracy can be satisfied. The strongest shoulders are spared. But is this really the choice of the cabinet? A welfare mother with two children advances €15 per month and two earners with two children and a combined income of three times the minimum wage improves €170 per month. It is a good thing that middle incomes are improving in purchasing power, but it is not social in our view and it cannot be explained that the lowest incomes, and especially the non-working ones, are so lagging behind. And I am not even talking about the top incomes that, as we know, are much higher each year than collective wages. In absolute terms, this sometimes involves tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of euros per month. And then the cabinet lowers the top rate. You can't explain that, can you? For the SP, it is in any case a good reason to increase the top rate rather than lower it. Where income inequality is structurally increased by the early introduction of the two-disk system, this government leaves the much greater power inequality in this country untouched. Measured as a gini coefficient, this inequality is around 0.8. That's really high, also internationally. According to former colleague Reuten, Dutch capability inequality is even the highest in the 27 OECD countries he investigated, except the US. In the written preparation, I asked the cabinet twice whether it had an opinion on this extreme power inequality in our country. Up to two times, I have not received an answer, other than that the cabinet does not steer against asset inequality, but without further justification for that choice. So let me ask the Secretary of State again. Why is the government not a subject of government policy? Maybe now he'll find the answer on his phone. Mr. Chairman. It is time that the government saw it as its responsibility to do something about this great inequality. My group is therefore pleased that a motion of D66 and the SP was adopted by a large majority in the House of Representatives asking the government to examine possibilities for higher taxes on assets above EUR 1 million. With such a millionaire tax, you could also, at one stroke, structurally eliminate many of the deficits in the public sector. We therefore look forward to the results of the research and will certainly come back to this again. As far as we are concerned, this will be one of the cornerstones of the building blocks of a new tax system. Then there is a very important point for my group: the housing crisis in relation to the Tax Plan. In the written round, my group asked some specific questions about the landlord levy and the consequences of what we adopted here last year, namely the implementation of ATAD 1. To begin with, in the debate that my group had with the Secretary of State last year, our questions were specifically about the so-called Earnings Stripping measure. Mr Vendrik also mentioned it. As part of ATAD 1, it is intended to prevent tax avoidance, but it also affects some of the wrongdoers, in this case and in particular our housing corporations. My group was and is of the opinion that there should be an exception for housing corporations to ATAD 1 and is not, to date, convinced that there would be no legal room for this at European level. The government would have asked the European Commission for informal advice on this, and that would have been negative. In the written preparation, we asked the government to share with us this opinion, or its official presentation. This is denied by the Secretary of State, despite my appeal to our right to information, as laid down in Article 68 of the Constitution. According to the State Secretary, what is the major interest of the State.the only ground on which the government may be subject to its constitutional obligation to provide information is at stake here? Let the Secretary of State explain this very clearly, because I do not find that explanation in the answer. However, I am pleased that I have asked further questions on this, because what the Secretary of State wants to say about it in his reply shows that it is not at all an opinion of the European Commission, as previously suggested. It is only a preliminary view of the dg Competition, which has also clearly stated that it is up to the Member State itself to decide whether social housing should be regarded as a long-term public infrastructure project. However, what has changed the government is "strengthened in its beliefs." That is to say, the conviction that it cannot and that it would constitute prohibited State aid. I quote again: '... and not optimistic about a different view of the European Commission'. For the record, the Commission has not been asked for an opinion. We are only talking about suspicions and beliefs in which we are strengthened on the basis of information that we do not know as a parliament and which is not shared with us. That is what we must do as a senate with our constitutional right to information. I don't think this is acceptable. Why has there never been a request for formal advice? It seems that this exception is not intended at all for the housing corporations and that it is simply intended to impose this burden on the corporations. Say that. Then be honest and don't hide behind an informal advice that you won't be able to share with the Chamber. My group does not intend to accept the answer so far and is considering a second-term motion. If an exception to ATAD 1 would really not be possible, which we are not convinced of for the time being, there is another solution. As far as my group is concerned, it is one of two. Either you make every effort to get an exception to this directive for the housing corporations, or you make sure that the negative consequences of the reduction of interest deduction for the corporations are fully compensated. But the government doesn't do either. Is that responsible policy now, given the shortage of affordable housing in our country, I ask the Secretary of State. I'd like a response. The compensation could, of course, also come in the form of a reduction in the burden on housing corporations that had already been introduced: the landlord levy. As far as my group is concerned, it is therefore completely abolished. We have heard earlier this evening that this may be possible with the next cabinet formation, but of course there will have to be a good result in the elections. I hope that many parties share that with the Christian Union. What, in essence, is the justification for the continuation of this measure for the present cabinet? The landlord levy was introduced as a crisis measure at the time. As far as we are concerned, it was a wrong measure at the time, but even if you went along with that reasoning then that crisis is over and public finances are in order. Then why is it needed now? Can the Secretary of State back that up? There is no crisis in public finances. On the contrary, we have 10 billion left this year. However, we do have a crisis in our housing. A measure designed to combat the effects of that financial crisis is now leading to another crisis, the housing crisis. What is the answer of the Secretary of State? Even without abolishing the landlord's tax, the government could do more. For example, the landlord levy is linked to the WPA value, which has risen faster in recent years than inflation. Why not structurally correct this by applying a macro standard, just like municipalities, in which the yield is fixed and the rate is adjusted to the WPA development? That might at least give a little relief. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I will be brief on the measures proposed under the Climate Agreement. There is increasing doubt as to whether the cabinet can meet its own climate objectives. In the meantime, the big industry continues to emerge too much, while households with low to even upper-mode incomes are becoming less and less able to generate the energy bill. Accessible and affordable energy for everyone is, in our opinion, a right. This right is now under increasing pressure, for example by increasing the rate of tax on the first component of natural gas. In addition to lower income households, this also affects small businesses disproportionately. I ask the Secretary of State why it was chosen, when it could be so much more just. Mr President, I come to something that is finally heading in the right direction, namely tackling tax avoidance. The SP Group welcomes the introduction of a withholding tax on interest and royalties by 2021. It remains for historians and politicians why this has taken so long. But at least we are now taking a step in the right direction. However, it is not yet a very big step. This conditional withholding tax amounts to only 22 billion out of the 80 billion that flows into our country in interest and royalty payments. Only withholding tax is levied on flows channelled to countries with a low rate, specifically below 9%. The flows that go directly from the Netherlands to tax havens, such as Bermuda, will dry up, but also money will flow out of our country free of tax via transit countries such as Ireland, Luxembourg or Switzerland. The CPB also states in a study from the beginning of this year that the contingent withholding tax will not prevent these flows and that this will require a wider application. Can the Secretary of State explain again why he didn't choose this? Why is it only a conditional tax and not just a general withholding tax? Insofar as it is forwarded through other EU Member States, in which case no withholding tax can be levied on the basis of the existing directive, my group wonders whether the Secretary of State makes sufficient use of the legal possibilities offered by EU law to prevent abuse of this directive. And why is it only the statutory tariff and not the countries that are statutoryly above the 9% standard but are effectively well below it by special tax regimes, such as Mauritius? Why are these countries not also on the list of low-taxed countries for which a withholding tax is to be levied? Countries with territorial tax regimes, such as Hong Kong and Panama, are also excluded from the scope of the conditional withholding tax. My group regrets this and wonders why the government has not been more ambitious here. I would like a response from the Secretary of State on these points. The fact that we are far from there with the fight against tax avoidance in this country has recently been re-examined by the CBS, which showed that the effective tax on profits for large companies has fallen from 22% to 17.1% in ten years. For the largest companies, this is even much lower, as we all know. I had a debate on this with the Secretary of State last month. He says, "You have a fare and you have a base." As if it is normal that the base is so narrow that you are 8% or even much more below the nominal rate. Or does the Secretary of State think that's normal? The aim of the tariffs we apply is that companies that pay as effectively as possible. And what does he think of the trend that is falling from 22% to 17.1%? The Secretary of State will say: but we are working on a broader basis. But why should the rate be lowered if you broaden the base? That is what is going to happen now as far as this government is concerned. Especially if you broaden the basis in the fight against tax avoidance, as far as my group is concerned, there is no logic here, or it should be the logic of rewarding bad behavior. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he sees this. Fortunately, the reduction in the high rate of Vpb has been postponed for a year, but will then continue. That remains an incomprehensible measure for my group. It is also a dangerous measure, which will further boost tax competition with our neighbouring countries. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. My group is pleased that the reduction in the high rate of VAT has been postponed, but this is not enough for us as long as there is no delay. In particular, multinationals still pay far too little tax. That tax should be increased by both broadening the base and increasing the rate. As far as my group is concerned, the accelerated introduction of the dual-disk system, which is a structural increase in inequality, is a step in the wrong direction. In the area of wealth inequality, I am once again seeing a standstill and a cabinet refusing to tackle a major social problem. An acute social problem is the housing crisis. Here, too, the Tax Plan offers little comfort. On the contrary, the landlord levy remains in place and other burdens on housing companies are not or are not adequately compensated. Finally, my group is pleased that tax avoidance is now being further addressed and, despite the limited treatment time, we agree with both implementation proposals in this area as well as the introduction of a withholding tax. For the rest, therefore, there is still a lot to be done to get our group out of line. But that is without prejudice to the fact that, as always, I look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u160	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Finally, Mr Gerbrandy has the floor on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course first the congratulations to Mr Geerdink on her very good speech. You can expect that from a fiscalist, and I'm afraid I'm not. Anyway, in my group, I'm the most expert, which is why I'm standing here. I have three questions for the Secretary of State. Things are going well in the Netherlands, but are things going well for everyone? There's still a big gap between rich and poor. The SCP has looked and found that almost a million households in the Netherlands live below the poverty line, not much more than sufficient in any case, and 600,000 people below the basic needs. Has anyone in this room ever had to live in a family with two children under €2,000 for a month? I don't think so. Even more painful in this prosperous country is that 9% of children who are 300,000 are living in poverty. Has that improved in recent years? No. In the period 2013 to 2018, it increased by 10% when we talk about children. I would like to look at a small reflection worldwide; that fits in with the theme rich-poor. Did you know that the 26 richest people have more power than half the world's population at the bottom, that's 3.8 billion people? Did you know that Oxfam Novib has watched how people live in this world and that 10% of the world's population has less than $1.90 a day to spend? Amazing! We're part of our world. I come to my point, Secretary of State and Chairman. Our Scientific Council for Government Policy also warned against excessive differences. This gives rise to social unrest and the confidence in government and politics is getting away. The Netherlands I didn't know what I saw... is one of the top 5 tax havens in the world. 10% of the world's profits are channelled away by the Netherlands. My group fully supports the measures that this government intends to take. And she can do more. It has just been said very clearly by Mr Van Apeldoorn. The gini coefficient............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You said 0.8, I read 0.9. With incomes it is a bit better in the Netherlands, that is 0.3. So those proportions are better. Did you know that since 1977, 40 years ago, purchasing power for the ten least-earning households has fallen by 30% and high incomes plus 6% to 23%? The medium-term estimate by the CPB predicts that in the future, 2022 to 2025, the burden on citizens and families will increase and that companies and private capital will increase. The capital difference is huge in the Netherlands. 60% of the poorest households have 1% and 10% of the richest have 50% of all wealth. And now I'm quitting, but I want to bring up the atmosphere I don't agree with. I'll get to the questions in a minute, through the chairman. The top income in 1990 was 30 times the minimum wage. You'd say that's enough. But no, in 2013, the top income was 52 times the minimum wage. When we see how people can physically surpass each other, that's 1 in 3 to 1 in 5. Mr Van Wely has won seven chess championships and has a rating of 2,800. I'm a regular chess player and I have a 1,200 rating. Does he have to make 52 times more money than I do? I wouldn't dare say it. He doesn't, by the way. Difference of income is bad for economic growth. It is also bad for confidence in our political system. The government should be a shield for the weak, an ally for the vulnerable and the disadvantaged. That is why my question to the Secretary of State. The minimum wage, the purchasing power, must be raised. He's not doing that right now. The middle incomes, that's what I'm for, but the minimum wage also needs to be raised. VAT must be returned from 9% to 6%. That's an advantage for everyone. There's another way to get that back. And especially on healthy food, that should be absolutely necessary. The fact that the VAT for tobacco is going up is fine. As far as I am concerned, the four discs we have in the tax system can continue to exist. If care costs are income-dependent, the lowest incomes will benefit by 4%. That's what they calculated. Its own risk can be halved. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to these comments. Mr. Chairman. I am going to be brief about the Tax Administration: simplification and modernisation. Our tax authorities are under pressure as internal and provider. We can't make it any easier, but it's more fun. Six million people I just heard seven million get bonuses. 50 schemes, a jungle, pumping around, a circus of surcharges, a factory of surcharges. I'm asking for an investigation from the Secretary of State into a basic income. This could be done in the examination of the building blocks for a better tax system, in ibo 3 or perhaps by a state committee looking at them. Then we can assume that the surcharges go directly to the institutions, the flat tax, the one and two earners. Why don't you take a look at that complex, because it's out of control now. That was the second question. The third question concerns the landlord levy. I tabled a motion in my General Political Reviews and our Minister for the Environment and Living said: hold on to it for a while. I did. She wanted to look at the capacity of housing corporations. Ahead of that, it has already been said, but I think I have to say: in 2013 the cash was seized at 1.7 billion, because when public finances were not in order. The Empire now plans to build 300,000 homes and 75,000 homes a year. The housing corporations built 30,000 homes per year and the moment the landlord tax came, that was still 15,000. So half of it went off. Dear people, now gives... Mr President, I must say that now this government is giving back a cigar out of its own box to the corporations. 10 million in 10 years. I've calculated it: that's 0.5% a year of what's ever been taken. Folks, this can't be happening. Moreover, the ATAD 1 rules require corporations to pay 353 million next year. The Earnings Stripping measure is called it. Mr Van Apeldoorn has explained perfectly. I do not have to do that in the remaining 40 seconds, but I ask you: go to Europe and just get it done. That's my third question. With Van Apeldoorn's support, I would like you to go there, because it is not correct in my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u162	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-09-eerstekamer-3.u163	I shall suspend the meeting for the night until Tuesday 10 December 2019 at 11 a.m.
