ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Trade Registry Act 2007 to the review of that Act, as well as the settlement of some other trade-related issues in the Civil Code, the Trade Registry Act 2007 and the Chamber of Commerce Act (34687).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	We have seven speakers from the Chamber. I see they're not all here yet. But the first one is fortunately there and he has requested a Castroian speaking time of no less than 15 minutes, so we are going to have a good seat for that. I call Mr Wörsdörfer. He represents the group of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. I never dreamed I'd get Castroian criteria thrown at my head again. I don't think I'm gonna make up my time either. Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs with a company at home and zzp'ers without a fixed place of work become hearndol when they are directly spammed with advertising after registration in the Trade Register. Of course, it's super irritating when an energy giant makes fantastic offers on day two after your registration. That is quite annoying, because they are not protected and can be directly attached to a contract by telephone. We have to do something about the latter once again and again that these energy giants sneak into a contract. But that's not what this is about today. Of course, you may wonder whether it is still at this time that the Chamber of Commerce sells address details to Jan and alleman without any test. Is privacy secure enough? And shouldn't there be a lock on this data in the Trade Register? I think so. Together with my colleague Amhaouch from the CDA, I think it's nice that he just walked in when I mentioned him last year to the Secretary of State to ensure that the address details of these entrepreneurs are protected. The Secretary of State shared our concerns about the privacy of entrepreneurs and announced a separate bill to settle this. In March of this year, the Dutch Data Protection Authority made a separate decision when it found that the sale of names and addresses ofzzp'ers and drivers in the product Addresses file Online does not comply with the privacy rules. The KvK decided to stop this. The Authority made some further recommendations. Yesterday we were informed by the Secretary of State that she will be working on this and that we will see this in the changes to a proposal that was previously promised to Mr Amhaouch and me. In short, there will be a bill that will improve the protection of the privacy of entrepreneurs because of the Trade Register. My question to the Secretary of State is obvious: when can we expect that? 'Cause there's a need for emergency here. E.R.'s good here. Mr. Chairman. Then another thorn in the eye of independent entrepreneurs. Not only do they suffer from an infinite series of advertisements, but there is also fraud lurking through the combination of the business register address data and the civil service number, which is standard part of the public VAT number of entrepreneurs. The Secretary of State for Finance, at the request of my colleague Mr Lodders, has promised to amend that, but in our humble opinion that is not a good thing at all. Can I ask this Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, who is there for the entrepreneurs, if she wishes to urge her colleague to take urgent action? The social service number must be removed from the VAT number as soon as possible. The Chamber of Commerce has nothing to do with that, I must add. I also have another question for the Secretary of State. In written questions, I pointed out that when assigning codes to companies when they register, there are actually no good codes to see how big the digital economy is and how many companies work in it. The Secretary of State stated in reply to my questions that she would discuss this with the Central Bureau of Statistics. My question is: what is the situation? When can we expect feedback from this? Mr. Chairman. I come back to the proposed legislative amendment on the Trade Register, because that is what we are really talking about today. You might wonder why the privacy issues I just mentioned, the ones entrepreneurs are so horrible about, aren't going along with this bill. That may be true, but that would mean that we have to wait for the changes that are now being made. This is a bad idea, because the proposal we are discussing today is important to combat fraud in trade so that the Chamber of Commerce can actively inform supervisors when detecting fraud. That has not yet been settled and we think it is important that that hook is there and that the Chamber of Commerce is working on it. It is also important to deal with this bill now, because this proposal provides the further basis for failing drivers to get back to work in another company as easily as possible. That is also important to us. Think of a situation where criminal measures have been taken to dismiss the driver's profession. It is also regulated by law that if a government institution has to obtain information from the Trade Register and sees that there are errors in it, this institution that has to report back to the Chamber of Commerce, so that the Trade Register remains up-to-date, up-to-date and correct. Those are important things. Moreover, there is still a limitation in the proposal. The reporting of errors detected shall be mandatory only if the institution is obliged to extract the information from the register. I don't understand. There are many institutions that also collect information from the Trade Register for other reasons. If they find a mistake in that, can't you just arrange for them to report it back? After all, it's about the Trade Register being right. So why don't we just settle that? Mr. Chairman. If you listen like that, there seems to be only reason to adopt this proposal as soon as possible. However, there is one exception, one provision that I do not agree with, namely the reservation of database rights. This should be included in Article 51a of the Trade Register Act. It took me a few days to get through this tough stuff, but it finally led me to the conclusion that that provision is incorrect, that it does not belong there. The provision does not add anything to the legal position. The question is whether there is a database law, whether the Chamber of Commerce has database law on the Commercial Register. The answer to that question does not come from this law that we are now adopting. It's from the Data Bank Act. There are all kinds of conditions. Lawyers disagree on whether this is the case. The case law of, for example, the European Court of Justice seems to be moving in the opposite direction. This is important because the Database Act is based on a European regulation and the European Court of Justice ultimately has control of it. The fact that lawyers do not agree on the issue of database law was also demonstrated by the round table I initiated, which dealt specifically with this question and where we have heard the different opinions. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the Databases Act, therefore, the assessment of whether such a right exists is a matter for the judge. If we, as legislators, now state in this law that the Chamber of Commerce can exercise the reservation database right, we will be able to influence the discussion. Again, that discussion is to be settled by the judge. It is precisely because lawyers disagree on this that, in my opinion, this is undesirable and inappropriate. As far as I am concerned, therefore, that provision should be deleted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	A question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u5	I am inclined to give my group a positive opinion on the amendment that Mr Wörsdörfer had sent around. Is he not afraid, along with me, that certain data law issues will be dealt with by private companies? I want this to remain only with the government, and my group also wants it to be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u6	The keeping of the Trade Register is legally invested in the Chamber of Commerce. So that's never gonna change. The Chamber of Commerce is responsible for this. I didn't mean to change that either. I would just like to prevent the Chamber of Commerce from keeping everything with itself. I shall say something about it in a moment, and I can assume that where lawyers disagree, we as a Chamber have an opinion. My goal is another one. I also want the data to be managed and maintained by the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u7	I have sometimes tabled, on behalf of my group, a proposal to abolish the Chamber of Commerce, just as we did at the time with the product boards, for which we had better alternatives. Here's what's important. Now that it is, we also want it to stay with the government as much as possible. Please take away my concern that it will immediately end up with private companies, because that already happens with too many things belonging to the government. I am not in favour of that, as, fortunately, is my entire group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u8	Once again, the deletion of this provision does not affect that. The deletion of this provision means that we do not unduly anticipate a question which should be answered by a court. I hope to have taken care of it this way. Otherwise, I will try to do so later. But that is absolutely not the goal. The Trade Register continues to be organized by the Chamber of Commerce. The abolition of this is, of course, a completely different discussion, which I do not think is the issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u9	I try to follow Mr Wörsdörfer's reasoning. If I understand correctly, he says that there is a legal difference of opinion on database law, "so we have to let the judge decide on that." But if the rules are not clear, is it logical that we, as legislators, should rule on them, so that it is clear and does not have to wait until the judge creates case law on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u10	Well, you could, but then you'll come up with the whole legal pin. That should be regulated by the Data Banking Act, not by this law. The Data Banking Act has criteria that allow you to determine whether that right exists or not. The Database Act then says: if you are a public organisation, you can rely on it, but you can only do so if you mention it on your website, for example. So this law isn't about that at all. This law does not at all say anything about the question of whether that right exists. If a judge is going to look at that later, it will not in principle say that this provision has answered the question in the Database Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u11	But then the argument is that maybe we shouldn't anticipate the judge a little bit. I'm going to chew on this again, because I'm not quite convinced yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u12	I'm gonna keep going on that. We had that round table. In my opinion, there was at least a great deal of clarity among the speakers about the fact that there would be database law. After all, there is an investor who also has the legal task of maintaining the quality of the Chamber of Commerce. There is another point I would like to make to Mr Wörsdörfer. The law has also been submitted to the Council of State and has not made any comment on database law. Could you reflect on that? I agree with Mr Futselaar's argument that we are legislators and that we want a certain direction. The Council of State has examined this and has not made any comments on it. Then I am not afraid to go down that path, rather than turn things around as Mr Wörsdörfer wants. Could Mr Wörsdörfer comment on that comment that was not made by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u13	Of course, it's quite difficult to respond to comments that haven't been given, so I can't. I don't know how the Council of State looked at this. I note that there is a major difference of opinion in case law and among lawyers as to whether the Database Act leads to database law for the Chamber of Commerce in the Trade Register. The image is diffuse. I say: that is right, and then we should not want to get ahead of it unless we believe that we should record it. But I will give you another argument as to why I do not think that is the issue at the moment. The first arguments I have just put forward are basically about the legal framework and how it is going to be. Let me say something about that in a moment. No, I'm gonna do that now, I understand. I said I had tabled an amendment to that effect. On this point, I have said it again. This is the purely legal argument why, as far as I am concerned, this provision should not be included, but there are two further arguments. The Chamber of Commerce is increasingly on a commercial path. I want to prevent the Chamber of Commerce from making companies making new products by enriching data from the Trade Register with all kinds of other knowledgeable information too difficult, if not impossible to undertake. I had just said that public authorities and public institutions are also very much in favour of the information they can obtain from companies that would be affected by a database provision. I don't think that's wise. In addition, we are on the verge of amending the directive on the re-use of public sector information. This is all terribly technical, but there is a discussion about the extent to which registers such as the Trade Register will be affected. The register, the role of the Chamber of Commerce and, by the way, the funding may then be completely destroyed. Why would you try to close something now if it might have to be opened up more later? I say don't catch up if you're in doubt. Once again, as far as I am concerned, we should not change the law on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u14	I do not think Mr Wörsdörfer's argument is convincing. As Mr Futselaar said, the Council of State has not made any comment on it. If it doesn't itch at the Council of State, we don't have to scratch here. Does Mr Wörsdörfer share that view? And in addition: does the fear of the Chamber of Commerce go the commercial path that there is no protection of the datasets of the Chamber of Commerce? After all, Mr Graus is concerned that all kinds of commercial parties are going to get involved with this data and start harassing entrepreneurs with it. How does Mr Wörsdörfer view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u15	First of all, the comment about the itching at the Council of State, whether it is present or not. I think we will remember when Mr Moorlag comes to a legislative proposal with a point that was not made by the Council of State. I do not think that we should be guided by this, but that we should see for ourselves what we think. I can't say anything else because the Council of State hasn't said anything about it. The second remark is that if you are not careful and do not do so, there is no protection of those datasets. That's not true. The Chamber of Commerce can impose fine conditions under which criteria and under which conditions it provides data to parties. You don't need this provision for that. Mr Graus also made another comment; he was afraid that the Trade Register would come into private hands. That is, once again, not the intention. Those datasets are indeed protected. Of course, the General Data Protection Regulation also looks at it. None of that is gonna change. The point is that you are ahead of a discussion that is still taking place in Europe. The point is that you're laying down something here in the law that's legally unnecessary. I see that I have misjudged Mr Graus. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u16	Then Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u17	Listen, I was really talking about data law. I am not further concerned about the Trade Register, because it is in the Chamber of Commerce. It was about data law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u18	Then we've got that straightened out. Then Mr Moorlag can continue his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr Wörsdörfer must be aware that there are parties that collect data from the Trade Register and resell it as registry data with the risk that the data will no longer be integrity because the last changes have not been kept. Should that not be more important for Mr Wörsdörfer, also in the light of the fact that lawyers always disagree by definition? Surely that can't in itself be a reason not to include this in the law? Finally, I would like to ask Mr Wörsdörfer whether he is familiar with the saying used in the textile industry, namely 'double stitched better'. So you don't think it'd be better if you double-checked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u20	Again, I do have the public interest in mind. By the way, the point I started with, namely entrepreneurs being harassed by data coming from the Trade Register, is completely unrelated to this. This data is sold by the Chamber of Commerce and not by the companies that enrich and do more with the data. This benefits public institutions, researchers and so on. It is true that lawyers disagree, but I have also given a line on how I see it legally. I do not think this provision should be applied here. I just explained that. In this sense, I only note that lawyers disagree, but I also say what I believe to be the legal situation. With regard to 'double suffocation', Mr Moorlag is a master in laying down fantastic examples. That is why he always surprises the speaker somewhat. I think you can say that, but I'm saying there's absolutely no need here. The pants won't fall apart. If there is database law, it is already settled and the Chamber of Commerce has already put it on its own site. Mr. Chairman. Apart from that critical comment on database law, where I still have to convince several colleagues, as I have just noticed, I note that the VVD can live well with the other proposals. For the above-mentioned reasons, it is not necessary to wait for the other, very necessary proposals to amend the Trade Register Act which will make entrepreneurs less targeted at advertising and spam. By the way, as I said, we are eager to receive that bill. We're looking forward to that. I would like to leave it at that in the first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. The second speaker on the list, Mrs Bromet, did not appear. That is why we are now going to listen to Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also begin to apologize, because I will leave this debate prematurely. That is not my custom, but there is an urgent legislative consultation on phosphate legislation elsewhere in the building at 12 noon. I guess I'm not the only one who's gonna be there. So that's why. But no doubt the answers of the Secretary of State will be noted. Mr. Chairman. The Trade Register, the database of the Chamber of Commerce, in which all companies of the Netherlands are registered, is crucial for the SP to be able to monitor commercial activities as a society. In recent years, the commercial exploitation of this register has continued. Companies make services based on this register, so-called enriched information. That is fine in itself, because with that they really add something to information that should be public. But we can also see that there are companies that do forms of resale of this information. We have already talked about the incredibly annoying phone calls, e-mails and letters that entrepreneurs receive because their information is being resold. As far as we are concerned, that is something that should not necessarily be promoted. I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u23	I too have made this point and I think it is a very valid point. But my observation is that these entrepreneurs are not harassed by data that have landed through resale by other parties anywhere. No, the Trade Register of the Chamber of Commerce is selling that data. Well, then you should look at that, shouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u24	As far as we are concerned, we will certainly also have to look at the role of the Chamber of Commerce in the future. I would just like to say that there is also a partial problem with resale, with the shadow databases of the Chamber of Commerce, so to speak. Mr. Chairman. This law grants the Chamber of Commerce a right to tell others what should and should not be done with the information from the Trade Register. This is the so-called database law. We have questions about the usefulness and need of this right. This is one of the main reasons why this bill was submitted to the Chamber two years ago. Basically, database law makes sense. The Chamber of Commerce builds up a register of business data and has to maintain it with the sale of that data. Other companies can then purchase these data and possibly start a competitive register. One must then ask oneself what the social desires underlying this are. Let me give you an example: a company that creates an app that allows you to see what kind of like-minded companies are in the area right now. That has a social value. But an entirely shadow trading register, where you can buy data, is unnecessary and even undesirable to us. We know the examples of companies that find that outdated data of themselves are doing the rounds, on which they are assessed. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at this. Does this problem of the 'Secret Chamber of Commerce', I shall say, justify the introduction of database law? I would also like to ask whether we are not slowing down innovation somewhat if we are protecting it in this way. We also have a second question. Is it worth introducing database law? Indeed, a European directive is coming up which must be implemented within three years and requires the Trade Register to provide open information. This should, by definition, make that information accessible free of charge. Can the Secretary of State explain why we are doing a relatively far-reaching intervention for a relatively short period of time? Or am I misinterpreting this directive? We might be better able to address the financing of the Trade Register in a different, more sustainable way. The current register offers excellent opportunities to investigate, for example, the undermining of organised crime or the dubious tax structures of multinationals. This is something that society and the government should attach value to, while giving researchers the opportunity to have access. That's kind of the painful point for us. We understand the desire for database law to some extent, but we do believe that the Trade Register should be open to researchers of general interest, such as journalists, representatives of NGOs and people who want to use that data, not necessarily for commercial purposes but much more for purposes of general interest. If we create such a category, then perhaps the concerns we are now hearing from civil society can be removed. Then we can use the database law for the rest in principle and ensure that the issue of financing is not restricted. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you. Mr Graus from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, will be brief. So you can quickly sit on the soup and the potatoes. I am prepared to give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposal as it stands, of course even after thorough consultation with the people in my think tank, including many entrepreneurs. So we cannot have a great deal of opposition in this matter. However, I would like to object to the financing model of the Trade Register. I have done this before, and I would like to continue to do so, because often the owner wins, even here in the States General. Entrepreneurs already have to pay a lot of money and, of course, are already getting beaten up with a lot of burdens, including administrative burdens. The information is provided by themselves. So there's something to be said about that. Normally and ideally, it should therefore be free for entrepreneurs, but we also understand that free does not actually exist. It always costs money and we also understand that there are processing costs, storage costs and management costs and that they need to be covered. We understand that like no other. It would therefore be appropriate to reduce costs as much as possible to the profitability threshold in the future. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. That might save a motion in the second term. I've got that motion in my hand. I've already had it prepared preventively; that's how it works here. Another term for "rentability threshold" is "break-evenpoint." I can mention that term now, because Mr. Elias is gone anyway. He was always angry when we used English terms. Actually, I'm still in Ton Elias mode. I turned it into a "rentability threshold," but then, of course, a lot of people don't know what I mean by that. I mean, of course, that the costs should be covered and that no more than that should be paid by entrepreneurs. That's my question. Furthermore, I would like to ask: what is the last question I can ask: how can the re-use of information be promoted? Then preferably in line with opinions and suggested improvements of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Now, I believe, and I have understood, the opinion of entrepreneurs, re-use is often frustrated by overly strict application of database law or other restrictions. I'm still a little stuck with that data right. You have probably already heard this in the interrupting debate with my very esteemed colleague Wörsdörfer of the VVD. I really want to await the Secretary of State's judgment. I am also sure that other Members of Parliament will come back to this. I do not want to comment on this at the moment, and I would also like to discuss it with the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u27	I'm glad you're still shitting for Mr. Elias when he's no longer a member of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u28	That's right, but it's someone you won't soon forget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u29	It's possible. Who am I to deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u30	I've had nightmares about it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u31	We are now going to listen to Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yes, Mr President, while of course you could also be expected to pay attention to Dutch, but it can't be a party every day, I think. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber of Commerce and the Trade Register have a long history. During the Middle Ages, entrepreneurs and craftsmen organized themselves in guilds, which developed into colleges and committees. In 1815 King Willem I had the Chambers of Commerce and Factories recorded the position of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. In 1921 they also received a new public administrative task: managing the Trade Register. For the sake of time, I'm jumping to the now. Today we are discussing the renewed Trade Register Act following an evaluation in 2013. It is good to update that law; all the previous speakers have actually said it. There are a number of reasons for updating that law and also for doing so as soon as possible. It is important that the quality of the Trade Register is improved, that the Chamber of Commerce becomes even more effective in carrying out the trade register task and that the Chamber of Commerce can play a more active role in combating malicious practices, whether it is about trafficking in human beings, exploitation, false self-employment or, for example, legal fraud. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament supports the Commission's proposal. I know that we have a supporter in this State Secretary when it comes to promoting and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. I am thinking, for example, of the SME Action Plan. I also know that this cabinet has a structural focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. I am, of course, grateful to the Secretary of State for that. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions about the Trade Register Act. First of all, on financing. I believe that Mr Graus also touched that issue. In the United Kingdom, Belgium and France it has been explicitly chosen to make the trade register free of charge. That's good for innovation. It is also good for combating fraud, money laundering and corruption. This law has chosen a model of input financing on the one hand, about 50%, and remuneration on the other. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if a conscious choice has been made here. Why has this model been chosen and has the neighbouring country model not been considered, and, if it has already been considered, why has it not been followed? Mr Graus says: we just have to deal with this. I'd like to know what the cost to the state would be if you deal with that model. Mr. Chairman. Then there's privacy. Several previous speakers have already mentioned the question of how entrepreneurs registered in the Chamber of Commerce are being called down and spammed by wimpy energy companies, telemarketers and other crooked businesses. I have to say quite frankly that I was able to set up a one-man company myself at the Chamber of Commerce. It was a very nice one-man company, but the first thing that happened was not that I had new assignments, but that I got unsolicited all kinds of prullaria at my mailing address. I finally got one nice pen left, for which I am grateful to that company, but for the rest it is really, really extremely annoying how that works. This was in 2000. It's 2019 now and we still haven't solved this. That annoys me and I think it annoys many with me. The Chamber of Commerce just sells addresses and phone numbers. The Chamber of Commerce writes on the website that the product Addresses file Online can be used to recruit new customers. For €0.77, 7 euro cents, anyone can buy the address and phone number of a company. So that's really incredibly annoying. Mr. Chairman. Not all complaints fromzzp'ers, start-ups and entrepreneurs, not the columns of Pieter Derks on NPO 1, but a tap on the fingers of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which was necessary for violating the privacy rules, has made the Chamber of Commerce decide to stop that sale. But I'm saying, you don't have to do that by 1 July, you can do that right now. If anything's against the rules, it's just supposed to stop. Then we don't have to wait. That is why I ask this Secretary of State to ensure that the Chamber of Commerce stops doing so immediately. He can do that just by taking one web page offline. It doesn't seem complicated to me. It seems to me that we should just do that. I hope the Secretary of State will insist on that, Madame de... I wanted to say "Mrs. Chairman," but I am not going to do that to Mr. Bosma. "Only on weekends," I hear Mr Graus say. He might know more about that than I do. I would not like to dwell on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u33	But he's very discreet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u34	Yeah, we'll keep this between us. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, if we took that web page offline, the nuisance has not yet been solved, because the Chamber of Commerce is still obliged under the Trade Register Act to provide everyone with the telephone and address details from the register. As long as the Trade Register Act does not change, according to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, it is mopping with the crane open. In an unsolicited opinion, the Authority made a number of recommendations to the State Secretary. One, make sure that all information products serve legal certainty in the economy. Two, stop delivering products that do not serve the general interest of legal certainty but are only good for the commercial interest of the individual company. And three, provide risky information products from now on only to approved customers whose reliability has been verified. In reply to my written questions and in the written debates on this legislative amendment, the Secretary of State indicated that a response would be forthcoming this spring and that a separate legislative proposal would be launched. It's June now. I ask the Secretary of State when we can expect this. Mr. Chairman. That is why we have the following questions. Can the State Secretary indicate whether she and, of course, the Chamber of Commerce are going to implement the recommendations of the Personal Data Authority? Two, can the Secretary of State say when the bill on securing privacy comes to the Chamber? I agree with my colleague, Mr Wörsdörfer: let us do so with some urgency. Can the Secretary of State indicate the impact on legal certainty if, for example, we delete the mandatory registration of telephone numbers and leave this to business guides? Mr. Chairman. When I think of the economy of the 21st century, I am thinking above all of a simple and open trade register. That is why, in recent years, with the Verhoeven motion, for example, we have advocated unlocking the Trade Register as open data. I am glad that thanks to European regulation, the public sector information directive for the gourmets, this has to be done in English, unfortunately, within two years. As a result, anyone with this information can also make useful analyses. Then there's database law. I'm going to talk about my time, Mr. Chairman; I hope you don't think that's a mistake. I've looked at the law, the hearing and the position papers with a lot of attention. I have also listened to a number of colleagues in this Chamber. I'm gonna be left with a few questions. What does the Secretary of State think is going wrong at the moment that this reservation is going to resolve? And the other way around: what really goes wrong if this reservation is not made? Those are two general questions. Then there is the question: how does this reservation in database law relate to the transition to public access to the register? Is this not a step backwards in terms of public access? How does this relate to the European directive? Some colleagues have already asked for this. Is it true that this reservation makes it possible for the Chamber of Commerce to decide which forms of re-use may or may not be authorised? One of the arguments put forward is that this would prevent shadow registers. I understand that argument. It seems to me to be an interesting argument, but it is, of course, mainly about the ban on the search for natural persons. I think that's something we should avoid. I think that's something we need to fight. Maybe the Secretary of State can respond to that. All the way to the end of this subject, and also to the end of my speech, Mr President. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for civil society organisations or journalists to obtain information from this Trade Register more easily? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you. Mr Moorlag (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. As things stand at present, we are going to suspend for lunch after the first term of office. Then we have a swearing-in and the arrangement of work. And then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. I call Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have the same problem as Mr Futselaar, so I will not be able to attend and conduct the whole debate because of the urgency of a legislative proposal on phosphate rights. I will not allow a cliffhanger to exist for too long: the amendment as it stands can count on the support of the PvdA. All the elements in it are improvements compared to the current situation. There is one point that is also highlighted in the debate. That is the dilemma that exists with, on the one hand, the desire to have open data and, on the other hand, the right of databases and the public interest to protect, for example, privacy and data integrity. Because it is true that these datasets of the Chamber of Commerce are sometimes copied one-on-one and are also presented as being of data from the Chamber of Commerce, even after some time when those data have not changed and are therefore no longer integrity. We need to find a solution to this dilemma. Is the solution there to remove the data sets from the Chamber of Commerce under the protection of database law? No, in my group's view that is not the right solution. We can see that there are just too many problems at the moment. A number of Members have also referred to this. The question is: to what extent should you allow data that is recorded and recorded with public money to be used as a commercial commodity by all kinds of organizations that want to sell the data? The PvdA Group believes that this should be limited and database law helps to do so. We do have concerns about the accessibility of data to journalists and scientists, but also to NGOs, such as the trade union movement at the time I was a trade unionist, we have also regularly used the data of the Chamber of Commerce. My question to the Secretary of State is whether it is not possible to create a somewhat similar regime to that applied, for example, to the Land Registry. There the threshold for accessing data, including the financial threshold, is much lower for scientists, for example, than for other users. Mr. Chairman. Concerns have also been expressed by a number of groups. I also taste those concerns a little bit, and the Chamber of Commerce, to my taste, also suffers from them. It is claimed that the Chamber of Commerce is, as it were, surrounded by a coat of data and wants to market the data for its own benefit. That picture is simply not good for a public body, but I wonder if there is no other way than Mr Wörsdörfer's amendment to find a solution. Couldn't something of an authoritative expert body, for example, be formed that has some supervision and that can sometimes also give an opinion on some ethical dilemmas? It is a rather bold comparison that I am about to make, but I am also the spokesman on animal welfare and animal testing, and when using laboratory animals, it is often argued that it is necessary to use laboratory animals from a scientific point of view. But there is also something from an ethics committee that tests that. To my liking would be some sort of "ethical board"... Well, that might sound too heavy, but it might help to develop an authoritative body that is going to have some supervision and that can also give judgements. Whatever you see, everything is developing rapidly and new dilemmas keep popping up. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she will consider it. That could be the bridge between, on the one hand, securing the public interest, ensuring data integrity, ensuring the privacy of entrepreneurs sighing among all those energy giants who make commercial offers, and, on the other hand, having sufficient access to the data and removing any improper thresholds raised, at least to which the Chamber of Commerce is accused. That is the main question for me in this debate, Mr President. I'll leave it at that for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the Christian Union. I have that privilege today. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill that the Trade Register 2007 needs to amend. That is the law which lays down the rules for the basic register of companies and legal persons. This is maintained by the Chamber of Commerce and all Dutch companies and legal persons must be registered in it. We are talking about millions of data of 2.7 million registered with three million mutations per year. It is an impressive database of which we have entrusted quality control, supervision and control to a public body: the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Chairman. This amendment is due to the mandatory review of the Trade Registry Act four years after the entry into force which was completed in 2012. That evaluation shall cover the period 2008-2011. In addition, seven years on, we cannot ignore current events. I refer to the revision of the PSI Directive, the European Public Sector Information Directive, the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act and the general trend towards more open data. When assessing the bill, our groups in the CDA and the Christian Union consider the following aspects to be difficult. This is firstly that our trade register is accurate and reliable, secondly that the data is handled carefully, thirdly that the register is accessible to the right organisation and persons and fourthly that legal certainty and privacy are guaranteed. As far as privacy is concerned, we welcome last year's decision by the Chamber of Commerce to remove the phone numbers from the online register and to protect the addresses from the trade register. That was a Chamberwide initiative of CDA and Mr Wörsdörfer has already referred to it to prevent unwanted and unsolicited marketing, which received a lot of support from entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal, we read, should provide for greater legal certainty in economic affairs and a more effective Chamber of Commerce by strengthening the fight against fraud and malpractice and improving the functioning of the trade register. These are two excellent objectives, especially at a time when the dependence but also the vulnerability of data is high. Can the Secretary of State explain what this legislative amendment means in concrete terms for entrepreneurs, SMEs andzzp'ers? How were they helped by this change of law? Can she briefly reflect on that again? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet deserves a compliment that it has tried to accept almost all the Council of State's opinions on the bill. In other words, to adjust the justification for various provisions and to continue to reduce the time limits for the winding-up procedure until the Minister of Justice and Security has completed his investigation into the abuse of the so-called winding-up procedure. When can we expect this investigation? We have another specific question about the alerting of malicious practices. We are pleased to read that the Chamber of Commerce can also use the signal function in cases of suspected trafficking in human beings. Could the Secretary of State explain what this will mean in practice and whether the Chamber of Commerce has the right knowledge to identify signs of possible trafficking in human beings? During the review of the law in 2012, the consultancy firm Berenschot was moderately positive at the time. Concerns were mainly about the quality of the Trade Register and the administrative burden. Indeed, with a structural reduction in the regulatory burden of around EUR 7 million, this bill contributes significantly to reducing administrative burdens. At the same time, the Chamber of Commerce is going to do more with this bill, for example by checking through all possible channels the accuracy of the address where a company is registered and the transmission of signals from malicious practices. How do the control pressure savings relate to each other on the one hand and the expanded task set on the other? And when is the next review of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Trade Register Act planned? We ask the Secretary of State through the President. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to, at least it seems, the only point of dispute in the legislative proposal, namely the database reservation, which we have just discussed about the access and re-use of data from the Trade Register, and indirectly what price tag may be attached to it. This is an important aspect of the legislative proposal, on which opinions differ widely. At least that was demonstrated by the hearing on 11 April. The Chamber of Commerce states that it is necessary to have the database law in order to fulfil its legal function, namely to carry out legal certainty checks to prevent market parties from playing for Chamber of Commerce themselves, to run shadow registrations with potentially outdated data with the sticker Chamber of Commerce on them and to allow the unauthorised search of natural persons, which is reserved only to authorised authorities. That seems to us to be three plausible arguments, especially since the Council of State did not comment on this provision in its opinion on this legislative proposal. Perhaps there are more arguments, because can the Secretary of State explain to us whether, in the case of a shadow registration, the so-called right to oblivion can be fulfilled? That is, the request to an organisation to completely erase someone's personal data. That this would not be possible, because the organisation is not the source from which the personal data come, is strange for us. Mr. Chairman. And yet there is discontent among lawyers, re-users of Chamber of Commerce data and advocates of open data. Why is that and why is this criticism now? How often have these parties, the field, been consulted and involved in the last seven years with the aim of achieving a supported bill? Or do the various interests differ too much? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The hearing included the following questions which the CDA would like to raise again during this debate. Because what regulates the database reservation that is not currently regulated? Do we understand that in order to be able to claim database rights, a law needs a hook, a reservation like this, and that you cannot do so without such a hook, reservation, so with database rights? Mr. Chairman. In the field, votes go on to make the Trade Register free and public, as in the countries around us, the United Kingdom, Belgium, France, Denmark, without data that can be traced directly to one person. Do you expect the Netherlands to participate in this development towards more open data in the future and at what time? Is the reason why we do not now choose a financial one, we ask the Secretary of State through the President. Because the financing model of the Chamber of Commerce, which is based on revenue from the market, is about two thirds, and revenue from State contributions, the other one is not designed on it. How does the Secretary of State view this financing model of the Chamber of Commerce? Does it consider that ideally information from the Trade Register should be free of charge for entrepreneurs and that these costs should be paid in the future from general funds? In the meantime, how could we promote the re-use of information? Mr. Chairman. A few more questions about the signal service experiment, the test of the Chamber of Commerce to adjust changes to its data directly in the customer system. Who's taking part in this trial? On the basis of which were the participants selected, how long will the test run and what will it lead to? I would like to come back to the privacy aspect, because we see that there are many different projects in various policy areas around the opening up of data, including from entrepreneurs. This does not necessarily involve coordination. Think, for example, of the UBO register and the PSI directive, but also of the European company law. I have two questions about this. When ensuring the privacy of entrepreneurs, for example in order to prevent a home address from being found out, will not only look at the information provided by one specific registry, but also at the sum of datasets that are accessible under the various schemes and whether or not this can be traced back? At the same time as the various datasets, is sufficient use made of the possibilities that distributed ledger technology blockchain can offer to keep them accurate in a smart and safe way? Finally. As a CDA, we have often drawn attention to misleading sales techniques, for example by telephone or at the door, of which both consumers and entrepreneurs are the victims. For example, entrepreneurs receive a call, where they are offered a seemingly attractive contract for telecoms, energy or any other service. That is packaged as a discount, but in practice it is very unattractive. The entrepreneur only has to say yes once and he is directly attached to the agreement. Or the entrepreneur will sign a contract, the terms of which will be added later. In this type of practice, the Trade Register can be very helpful to sellers. What can we do about this? Will the amended Trade Register Act help us with this later, or is additional legislation needed? We are very curious about the ideas of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for half an hour and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u40	We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. I would just like to say that a number of spokesmen have gone to another debate, an urgent debate. We still have two spokesmen left. That means, if the two spokesmen want to table motions later, we still have some Members of Parliament to join. We don't have enough contestants to file motions right now. Mr. Sjoerdsma has four? Yes, we need four MPs, but there are two present now. "Mrs Keijzer has also been a Member of Parliament," I understand, calls Mr Sjoerdsma, who has never taken a course in constitutional law. But we'll do that in recess, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the beginning, I had to control myself, too. If the chairman asked "is there sufficient support for this motion?" I had a tremendous tendency to raise my hand. But I did get that state law course, so I thought, "I don't want to do that." Mr President, the amendment of the Trade Register Act. The Trade Register is the backbone of legal certainty in economic life. Anyone can check in the register if someone is an entrepreneur and if it is true when someone says that. It is essential for our economy and therefore the previous amendment of the law stipulates that the Trade Register is a basic registration. I would like to remind you once again today of the various functions of the Trade Register, which is not always properly addressed. There's three of them. The Trade Register is there to promote legal certainty in economic life, as I said, but also to provide data of a general factual nature concerning the composition of companies and legal persons, in order to promote the economic interests of commerce, industry, crafts and services. A third function is to register all companies and legal entities as part of the data system that contributes to the efficient functioning of the government. So there are three functions. The bill before us today contains a number of changes. The biggest and most important change, which has been the focus of attention, is the creation of a legal basis for transmitting signals about possible offences or fraud to investigating authorities. There will be a legal basis for the registration and enforcement of private and criminal administrative prohibitions. What is also worth mentioning is the reporting obligation for public authorities with regard to non-authentic data, and, of course, the data base law, which has been the main subject of today's debate. Let me start with that database right, as the biggest topic in the discussion today. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer. Let me give a judgment on that right away. I would advise against that amendment. I think it is good that we all realise that there are several basic registrations, two of which are publicly available with a legal certainty function. That's the Trade Register and the Land Registry. The article 51a, which is included here as an addition to the Trade Register Act, is similar in the law governing the land register. In that sense, this has been shown before. The Databases Act sets out the conditions for entitlement to a database right. In order to be able to claim that database right, you must have made a reservation somewhere. So you have to invoke the right to claim it. The Data Banking Act describes when to do so. This can be done, for example, in separate delivery conditions, but it can also, just for everyone to see, in a law at law level. That's what's in store right now. There is therefore no doubt about the claim made by the Chamber of Commerce with regard to the Trade Register. It is for the court to assess, where appropriate, when that question is submitted, whether the Chamber of Commerce actually fulfils the conditions for successful recourse to database law. It is a useful tool for the Chamber of Commerce to monitor, inter alia, the proper use of trade register data, the integrity of data, legal certainty interests and to prevent deception or abuse. Let me look in my pieces for a moment, because there are also examples of cases where that has gone wrong recently. An example of this is this: a small entrepreneur reported to a bank. The bank in question did not use the data of the Chamber of Commerce itself, but data of a data dealer. It did not mention the entrepreneur in question as the owner of that company and therefore refused what he asked the bank. Then he came to the Chamber of Commerce with the question: "Hey, how can that be?" In the registration of the Chamber of Commerce, this entrepreneur was the owner of the company. There are other examples of this, for example of an association of owners in which there was discussion about the situation. This example also showed that obsolete data from a data dealer had been used, while the correct information was given to the Chamber of Commerce. Database law does not prohibit the use of terms and conditions by data dealers. It only regulates that you can't play "KvK' in quotes, that as a data dealer you can't pretend to provide data that is the same as the data provided by the Chamber of Commerce. A number of questions have also been asked. The D66 group asked what would go wrong if the reservation of database law was not incorporated into the law. As has already been said, we have done the same with regard to the Land Registry and, as has already been pointed out, it is above all something that should be preferred to provide that clarity, including in trade. At present, the Chamber of Commerce includes reservations in individual agreements, but they are not public. By including it in the law, the reservation is now known to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u42	We had a round table and the Chamber of Commerce was invited to do so. That is how it should be, that they can also give their vision there. At that time, they indicated that since 2013 a general site has been indicated everywhere that they feel that they have that reservation on database law. In other words, this is known to everyone and I believe that the argument that the State Secretary has just used is incorrect. It's already known to everyone. By the way, this does not change the question of whether there is a database right. Only that possible reservation has been expressed by the Chamber of Commerce, so that raises the question of what goes wrong if you do not put this into this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u43	I hear Mr Wörsdörfer questioning whether there is a database right. There is. This is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that the Chamber of Commerce has invested in the trade register. I also heard Mr Wörsdörfer say that case law shows that this is not the case. As a general rule, where commercial registers are invested in, there is such a right. I just indicated what would go wrong if you didn't give me that clarity. I have mentioned two examples in which a small businessman simply got stuck, because certain organisations used outdated data, which can be presented as KVK registrations, but which in fact are not. By making it crystal clear in the law that there is a database right, you are simply clarifying it. Earlier, this Chamber, and this is the question I put to Mr Wörsdörfer, has included in the law relating to the register that there is a database right. They are absolutely different databases, but they are both public and have a legal certainty function. And that's why I think you should do the same here. That is necessary in order to provide that clarity. This is without prejudice to data dealers still being allowed to use those data, but they can no longer play "KvK'tje" and pretend that the value of the data they use is the same as the value of the data of the Chamber of Commerce. The difference lies in all the efforts of the Chamber of Commerce to keep the information in the Trade Register up-to-date, complete and correct, exactly as Mr Wörsdörfer says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u44	I hear the Secretary of State linking you to the Land Registry Act. I understand that, because the land registry is also a register. But the Secretary of State himself has already indicated that that is a different kind of register. Does she agree with me that the provision in the Land Registry Act which contains that reservation does not contribute to the answer to the question of whether there is database law? In other words, to answer that question also applies to the Land Registry that you have to go to the Databases Act. And with that, of course, my original question remains. I do not think that provision adds anything. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u45	No. The provision adds something, namely clarity in trade. There will be clarity where database law rests and it will be clear that this is a public register with the function of legal certainty, similar to the Land Registry. So what you're doing here is clearly indicating that only the Trade Register has the database right and is also responsible for keeping the data up-to-date, complete and correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u46	In the first period, I asked what would go wrong, which is why this is necessary. The Secretary of State actually comes up with that example of an entrepreneur who comes disappointed at a bank and finds out that he should have been at the Chamber of Commerce after all. I am struggling a little bit with how this provision in the law solves that problem in that case. It is also just a matter of an entrepreneur going somewhere and then finding out that he should have been at the Chamber of Commerce. Is the provision to which this Secretary of State refers now going to solve that? I'm thinking about Facebook, too. If our current President of the Chamber doesn't exist here on Facebook, don't you think he doesn't really exist? Then you go to the Basic Registration Persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u47	Then I haven't been entirely clear with the example I gave. An entrepreneur with a one-man business wanted to take care of something at a bank. The bank refused to provide this service because according to the data used by the bank, the entrepreneur was not known as the owner of the individual business in question. The bank used data collected from a data dealer. In the data of that data dealer, another person was registered as the owner of the one-man business. Can you imagine that you are a small entrepreneur who does his utmost to run a company at his own expense and risk, that in that situation you need a bank service and that that bank appears to use information purchased or otherwise obtained from a data dealer at the Chamber of Commerce. Such a data dealer often offers this information more advantageous to all kinds of organisations. The net result is that this entrepreneur simply doesn't get the service from the bank, even though he owns the one-man business. He must have thought: what kind of kafkaesque situation did I end up in? He finally contacted the Chamber of Commerce himself. There the information was adequate, but that information was not known to the bank. But I do have another example. Those parties who have a subscription from a data dealer may search for the composition of legal persons or economic operators classified as natural persons. This functionality within the Trade Register is reserved only to a very limited group of authorised public authorities. Requests from natural persons to be removed from the database of this data dealer were refused. The data dealer then relies, inter alia, on the fact that he processes the personal data on the basis of a legitimate interest, namely legal certainty and transparency in trade. Most of the debate today has been about database law, but it has also been about privacy. Then you see that a number of things go wrong after all. In the example I gave with regard to the association of owners, the difference in actuality between the data of the Chamber of Commerce and that of the bank where this association of owners reported to be no less than six years. You might wonder why. One cause could be that data dealers sell these KvK registrations at a discount. This makes it attractive for service providers to entrepreneurs. At the same time, entrepreneurs run into a situation where they are dealing with outdated data, while data dealers resell this type of information as "KvK registrations." In itself, there is nothing wrong with data dealers who use data from the Chamber of Commerce, enrich and thus create new innovative products. But something goes wrong when some people find it unclear whether there is a database right and data dealers can therefore pretend to use KvK registrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u48	But now there are two cases that are a little interwoven. Let me just grab that couch for a second. I don't think it would be wise for a bank to have its internal housekeeping out of order and use outdated information from a data dealer instead of information from the Chamber of Commerce. I don't think that's a good idea from the bank. It also seems to me that that doesn't radiate well on that couch. If that takes too long, then such a bank will automatically either lose customers or change its behavior. So I don't know if that's a good argument for including this in the law. Then there's the second thing I'd like to say. Of course, the Secretary of State has a point when she says that the search for natural persons is reserved for certain organisations. That's for good reason, too. Apart from this point, I do not understand very well why we do not make it clear in law or in any other way that this is not only limited in the Chamber of Commerce, but also in other organisations. Let's meet right here together and say we don't. I couldn't agree more. The search for natural persons is not allowed, except by certain organisations. We can give each other a hand in this respect, but I still have no answer to my question as to why that clause on database law is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u49	I have already indicated this in the first instance. The provision on database law is important because it is a public register with the function of legal certainty. It is one of the legal tasks of the Trade Register Act to achieve legal certainty in trade. Because data dealers now act as if the quality of their data is the same as that of the Chamber of Commerce, we find ourselves in this kind of situation. Similar to the Kadaster is that the reason why we now include in the law that database law rests with the Chamber of Commerce. We want to end all discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u50	I'll take this. But then I still have the next question. I put my hand out at the point of the natural persons. The Secretary of State has identified an important problem. What is the solution it advocates? There may be situations that may already arise in which organisations make it possible to search for natural persons. That does seem undesirable to me. We are indeed talking about privacy and the protection of sensitive data. I agree. The Secretary of State notes this problem. What's her solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u51	Because you grant database law to the Chamber of Commerce, they are also the ones who guarantee the purpose of legal certainty. That's what you're making that clear. What you're ultimately doing with this is providing clarity at law level, just as the Databases Act includes. It states that you can reserve that right to someone by law. Because you do, there's no doubt. The Chamber of Commerce is the one that has database rights. If these kinds of data dealers act in violation of the GDPR, the organisation that applies for this will of course have to appeal to these people, because that is contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u52	Let's clear up a misunderstanding. There is always rather ugly about data dealers, who would not be able to pass out outdated data as such. When you go to the site of companies that do this, you see very clearly on the one hand a framework with a historical file with old data. In addition, it is precisely when the extract in question dates. On the other hand, the same site has a direct link to the Chamber of Commerce: "Order the current extracts." You can click on that right away and you can also pay for it directly at the Chamber of Commerce. So I'd like to clear up this misunderstanding. I was wondering if the Secretary of State was aware of how these companies are offering the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u53	Yeah, but that's not the discussion here. The discussion is whether we believe, in the public interest, that database law rests with the Chamber of Commerce. That is what is proposed in this legislative amendment. This is without prejudice to the fact, as I have just indicated, that data dealers are allowed to use data and to make new innovative products, but that they are not allowed to play some kind of KvK. This does not improve legal certainty in trade. That is why we, like the Land Registry, make this proposal in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u54	I know what the discussion is about, because I started her myself. I just wanted to point out that a false argument is being used that does not change the discussion and its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u55	I do not agree with Mr Wörsdörfer, so I am putting that aside. The reason for database law is simply to include in the Commercial Register Act the fact that the Chamber of Commerce has database law, as referred to in the Database Act. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are still interests served by the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act. This is without prejudice to the right of data traders to still make use of such data and to make innovative products thereof. But they are no longer allowed to do so as a sort of shadow chamber of commerce. That is what this article is about. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of other questions to answer. I'll see if I've answered them in the debate. Mr Futselaar pointed out that shadow registers were undesirable and unnecessary. What does the Secretary of State think of that, he asks. Does the existence of a shadow register justify the use of a database right? Yes, if those shadow registers do damage legal certainty. This is particularly true in practice in real, unenriched shadow registers, especially when the data are not up-to-date, as was just stated. This is prevented by the failure to give consent to the use of database law. Mr. Chairman. The CDA group asked whether, in the case of a shadow registration, the so-called right to oblivion could be fulfilled. That's what I've just been talking about. Under the General Data Protection Regulation, Article 17, there is the right to be forgotten; I translate it just as popularly. There are exceptions to this right. The controller should balance that interest. If the data is no longer necessary for the purpose, they need to be erased. Sometimes there is a legal retention obligation, for example in tax legislation. The Trade Register is also subject to a legal exception. The right to be forgotten does not apply to the Trade Register. For the owner of shadow registrations, he must respond to a request for oblivion and delete the data if they are no longer necessary for the purposes for which they were provided. The legal exceptions do not, of course, apply to the shadow registers. They have no legal duties. Mr. Chairman. The CDA's group also asked what the right to reserve databases regulates what is not currently regulated. In my view, I have responded extensively to that. How could we promote the re-use of information? Re-use of information is not an obstacle, except where legal certainty is at stake. This is the case in the case of potentially outdated information that is sold which is not easily identifiable to customers as not having the quality and topicality that you can expect from data obtained from the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about funding. But Mr Sjoerdsma may see that differently, because he is now at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u56	Still, just a little bit more about the database law. I have two outstanding questions about that. I ask them now, because that saves a few questions in the second term. I have asked about the relationship with the European regulation, which I believe has been asked by more Members of Parliament, and I have asked a specific question. Assuming that the Secretary of State wishes to stick to what is stated in this law on database law, and it seems to do so, what can we do, apart from that, to further promote access to that information for civil society organisations and journalists? I'm curious about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u57	Two open datasets are available at the Trade Register. One of them is that of the deposited annual accounts. Those two public datasets contain data that cannot be traced back to natural persons. That's a condition for that. The question is whether you can actually give certain organizations a kind of discount on getting information. I understand that question, but it's very complicated. Journalist, for example, is not a protected profession that you can get a stamp with "you are a recognised journalist." Nowadays, more and more people are putting themselves up as journalists. That's a tricky question. There is therefore no positive response to this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u58	The first question is: how does this relate to the European regulation that is to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u59	There is still a discussion at the moment on how the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act and the PSI, the directive on this, relate to the General Data Protection Regulation. On the one hand, you can say that all the data that is in the government should be public, because it needs to be re-used by citizens, but, of course, you have the importance of privacy on the other hand. Because more and more data is available and unlocked, you will find yourself in a situation in which, in the combination of different datasets, you can quickly come up with information that can be traced back to natural persons. This debate is being held within the European Union. The same applies to the discussion on the financing of trade registers. The idea is that it will be made available free of charge throughout Europe, but that is not the case. I'd like to say a few words about that right now. Tomorrow you can all decide that everything that the Chamber of Commerce does in the area of the Trade Register should be free of charge, but then you have to realize that you are putting a 50 million hole in the budget of the Chamber of Commerce. This is another aspect of this debate, which is also being held in Europe: what does it mean to qualify all public data as open data for financing, for example, something like our Trade Register?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u60	That is why I said in my term that we cannot simply make something free and that there must be financial cover for it. That's how realistic the PVV is. Does the Secretary of State still respond to my question as to whether the profitability threshold is being considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u61	That is one of the questions I want to answer here to Mr Graus. He states that there should be no more income from the Trade Register than for the purpose of covering the costs. That is what I think he means by the profitability threshold. I can answer this comfortably. No more than the cost will be collected. In fact, only half of the costs of the Trade Register are covered by the fee charged by the Chamber of Commerce for the provision of Trade Register data. The remaining costs are covered by other revenues, such as those from the general resources of the state budget. Mr. Chairman. I also have a question from the CDA: is there another reason not to choose open data? That is the principle of profit. If people benefit from certain dates, there is nothing wrong with it in itself if you pay some of the costs. My dad always says, "There's no such thing for free." There's always a bill somewhere. I have just said a few words about this to Mr Graus. Mr. Chairman. Let me see if I have another question on this subject. The D66 group indicated that it is free in the United Kingdom. That's true for most of the data. These data can be accessed via the website, but it is good to realize that the trade register of the English Chamber of Commerce, to translate it in this way, does not apply to sole proprietorships, as is the case in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I think that I have come up with an answer to the questions on finance, but I see Mr Sjoerdsma at the interrupting microphone. He may have a different opinion now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u62	Have you come to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u63	No, just at the end of the funding block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u64	Let's talk about funding. This is indeed free in the United Kingdom, Belgium and France. Of course, that was deliberately chosen. I also understand very well when the Secretary of State says that we are not just going to hit a hole of EUR 50 million. But my question was whether this model of funding has actually been considered and whether it has been considered whether that model of financing in Belgium, France and the United Kingdom might not be attractive from the point of view of open data, accessibility for journalists and civil society organisations and perhaps even to counteract some of the things the Secretary of State mentioned in our discussion on database law. I understand immediately that we may not be able to deal with this in its entirety today, but I do wonder if that discussion has taken place. If not, we may have to feed it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u65	Two things can be true. You may think that public sector information should be open, but you may also find that there is a price to be paid for it. It is also regulated as such in the Reuse of Public Sector Information Act that you may charge for certain data costs. At the same time, there is also a lot of free available in the Netherlands. These are basic data such as the CVC number, the name of the company or legal entity, the legal form, the establishment number, principal/side location, search address and the activity carried out by the entrepreneur. So this information is just available for free. France will ask for a contribution as soon as data becomes more detailed. The Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Luxembourg and Austria have a similar model, providing dates for payment. I have just made a comment about the United Kingdom. Has there been any consideration as to whether you could finance the Chamber of Commerce in any other way except by specifically covering it from the general funds? You also found this in one of the two notes on the report. For example, you can ask for an annual contribution for the maintenance of the Trade Register, as was customary in the past. In 2013 it was chosen to abolish this. Now it is true that they register once and you ask for a rate for that. You can also increase the revenue by increasing the rate for the subscription. You can choose to hang a price tag for changes to the Trade Register, which are now free of charge. But each time it has been chosen not to do so for a miraculous reason, as you find in the report. In the context of the debate in Europe on open public data, this is, of course, also taken into account in the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u66	I want to join the latter. We now have the discussion in the Chamber of Commerce: free, not free and what is free? Is there any reflection within the cabinet on how to do this in several areas? Satellite data are used in many places in society: for farmers, for roads, etc. Is there any thought about how we deal with the trend to make open data available for innovations? The government invests with taxpayers' money. Are we gonna get it out of the general budget or are we gonna ask for a price for it? Is this discussion also being held more widely, apart from this Chamber of Commerce case that we are discussing today and which does not necessarily need to be resolved today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u67	As I have just said, one of the aspects of the debate in Europe on the re-use of public sector information is clearly one of the aspects that is being taken into account. That discussion is not just about data in trade registers; that is, of course, wider. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question from the VVD Group about the obligation to return non-authentic data. Mr Wörsdörfer asks: why does the bill not require an administrative body to report inaccuracies if it is not required to use certain data? Where the administrative body is not obliged to use certain data, that means that it does not always have those data. It takes too far to include that obligation in the law. But this also applies to the fact that, on the one hand, you have the legal reality and, on the other hand, of course, the reality in society. Administrative bodies may, of course, report to the Chamber of Commerce if they encounter information that is not correct. I hope they do, too. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the discussion that we have already touched on in a number of interrupting debates, namely about privacy and open data. When can we expect legislation on the wishes of the Chamber, as laid down in the motions tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wörsdörfer, to protect the addresses of small entrepreneurs who are not legal entities? Around the summer I will inform the House of Representatives about how I will implement this motion. I am now looking at whether this can be done without the need for a legal amendment and whether this can be included in the Trade Register Decision, because we share the desire to handle the privacy of entrepreneurs well. Wherever it can be done in a simple way, I am therefore the first to want it, along with your Chamber. Then Mr Wörsdörfer asked for the bsn number to be removed from the VAT number. When will this legislation be in place? It is Mr Snel van Financiën who deals with this. He has previously communicated with your Chamber what the planning is. Entrepreneurs, natural persons such as sole proprietors andzzp'ers, will receive in 2019 a new VAT number that is no longer linked to their bsn number and from 2020 onwards the companies are expected to use these new numbers. Mr Moorlag and Mr Futselaar, respectively from the PvdA and the SP, also asked whether certain scientists and journalists could make cheaper and easier use of the Trade Register. I've already said a few things about that, but here too, "how do we deal with each other?" Maybe more. I have been told that when a journalist calls with a request for certain information, the Chamber of Commerce deals with it in a very positive way and tries to find out that information quickly. Mr. Chairman. Why doesn't the Chamber of Commerce immediately stop supplying the product of address files online? That's what Mr Sjoerdsma asked. I was listening to Mr Sjoerdsma and I thought: yes, why is that not stopped today? But laws and practical objections can always stand in the way. This product is included in the Trade Register Financial Regulation 2014. In order to stop the delivery of this product, this financial arrangement had to be adjusted. This has been done, the amendment has been published and will enter into force on 1 July. That date has to do with making changes a few times a year. Then Mr Moorlag asks whether there should be an ethical board, a supervisor who oversees the guarantee of openness on the one hand and privacy on the other. I think we have the Personal Data Authority for that. Should there be a ban on the search for natural persons, Mr Sjoerdsma asks me. The search within the Trade Register for natural persons is reserved for a group of bodies. It concerns administrative bodies and legal entities under the Bibob Act and even those may only view this information in order to carry out their legal task. So the ban on searching for natural persons would mean that these legal tasks could no longer be properly carried out. I have already answered Mr Amhaouch's question on development towards more open data. Mr Futselaar asked about database law, but I have already said a few things about this in an interrupting debate, namely that database law does not conflict with the wishes of everyone, and also of this cabinet, to re-use public sector information. In no way. Database law is not about that. Database law is about, to put it popularly, that data dealers are not allowed to play KvK'tje and thus, in trade, give the impression that the quality of the data they have is the same as that of the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a folder left, and when I do, I'll be at the end of my first term. The CDA group asked what this legislative amendment actually means for entrepreneurs. How were they helped by this change of law? With this amendment, entrepreneurs will be given a better functioning Trade Register, in which the Chamber of Commerce will also contribute to the fight against fraud and other offences. Transparency on administrative bans and clarity on database law reduces the risk that bona fide entrepreneurs face fraud and default, and they know better where they stand when using commercial register data. Mr Amhaouch also asked me how often the field has been consulted and involved in the last seven years with the aim of coming up with a supported bill. Of course, this bill has been in consultation with everyone who can express their views. There's a tension between different interests, but that's always the case. I mention, for example, the chances of profit for data dealers versus legal certainty or the interest on one side of disclosure and on the other side of privacy. In my opinion, this legislative proposal makes a balanced, nuanced choice, but that does not mean that everyone is satisfied. Then Mr Amhaouch asked about the test for the signal service. Private and public parties participate in the pilot signal service. It is a limited group of participants. What does that even mean?; What's the signal service? Those are real-time signals of mutations - so directly into the Trade Register to implement mutations as they are given. Participants are end-users and use data for risk and compliance purposes. Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's getting better and better. A risk is that the signal service can easily build up a shadow registration. The possible production of this signal service therefore requires a careful decision. But database law, as set out in Article 51a, can also help with this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Amhaouch asks me when a next evaluation on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Trade Register Act is planned. The proposed legislative amendment is the result of an earlier evaluation. The law does not provide for any subsequent evaluation. The Trade Register is also unintentionally there for sellers who offer things that not everyone is waiting for, such as Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Wörsdörfer and, indeed, everyone has made a visual statement today. Will the amended Trade Register Act help us with this later? In fact, I thought that Mr Wörsdörfer, in his first term, began to highlight this very side well, while at the same time indicating that this is another discussion that we are going to have with each other. One of the things that will be stopped from 1 July is the Addresses File Online. In the future, therefore, the home address of entrepreneurs who drive a business as a natural person will also be protected. Then, as you know, I'm heading for an opt-in scheme to replace the Bel-me-not Register, so you must have given permission before you get called. In addition, entrepreneurs can protect themselves from acquisition fraudsters by relying on the Acquisition Fraud Act. We are also working on a written requirement for small entrepreneurs in telecommunications. And as stated in the letter sent to you last night in response to the opinion of the Personal Data Authority: this is a continuous process. We continue to look closely at how this importance of the Trade Registry Act, as listed in Article 2 of the Trade Register Act, relates to the equally cherished privacy. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more questions. The CDA group asked me about the investigation into misuse of the winding-up procedure. The Minister for Legal Protection will inform your Chamber before the summer recess on this matter. Finally, Mr President. How do the control pressure savings relate to each other on the one hand and the expanded targets on the other? Regulatory pressure savings have no relation to a comprehensive task package. The savings in administrative burdens are caused by the fact that data on employed persons no longer have to be transmitted via the annual declaration to the Chamber of Commerce. There is an alternative to this, namely the policy administration of the UWV. The extension of controls results from the linking of basic registrations. An address that does not match the BRP or the BAG cannot be entered in the Trade Register. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. Then there are some questions. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u69	I am concerned that I do not have to table my motion. In that motion, I ask the government to reduce the costs for entrepreneurs for consultation of the Trade Register to the profitability threshold. That question has been answered sufficiently. I'm satisfied with that, so I'm not going to file that motion. So I would like to waive a second term. But I do have one issue, the Wörsdörfer amendment. When you hear the name, you expect someone in a leatherhose with a piece of beer with a lid on it, but it's here in a tight VVD suit. But I really don't know what to do with that, because the Secretary of State and the Member of Parliament contradict each other. I find it very difficult, so I hope they will come out soon, because I really do not know what to advise my group at the moment. I find the arguments of both to be unclear. In its final term, the Secretary of State may also be able to discuss the public money involved in the whole story. She called that in the beginning for a moment between the soup and the potatoes, but perhaps she can go into that for a while. What are the consequences for the public money already invested by the Chamber of Commerce in relation to Mr Wörsdörfer's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u70	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u71	Thank you for the compliment that Mr Graus has given me. That is how I see it about the costs that are being charged and that this is clear enough for him at the moment. With regard to database law, I referred to the investment made by the Chamber of Commerce to keep the Trade Register up-to-date, complete and correct. This is one of the grounds on which the Chamber of Commerce can rely on database law. I've said a lot about that. The purpose of the database law is to make it crystal clear that you need to be at the Chamber of Commerce for that current, complete and correct data. And third parties, such as data dealers, are not allowed to present themselves as Chamber of Commerce. I mentioned an example in relation to small entrepreneurs who are stuck in a bank because they use outdated data. So I would like to emphasise this once again to Mr Graus. Finally. Previously, the Chamber has already decided to include database law for the Land Registry in the law governing the Land Registry. So I don't see any argument not to do that here now, except that data dealers find that annoying because they can no longer position themselves as an organisation that also offers KvK registrations, but with a discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u72	Thank you for this detailed answer. I am still waiting for Mr Wörsdörfer's second term, but the bascule is beginning to hang on the side of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u73	You're keeping it exciting. Mr Wörsdörfer, if I speak his name so well, Mr Graus!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u74	And a lot more friendly! I had asked another question about the coding companies receive when they register with the Trade Register and are included in it. The Secretary of State was supposed to have a conversation with the Central Bureau of Statistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'm as we speak figuring out an answer to that. I hope to have that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u76	I had asked the Secretary of State if she could indicate whether she would be able to implement the recommendations of the Personal Data Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u77	Excuse me? Can we do it again? My apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u78	No problem. The Personal Data Authority has made a number of recommendations, so I was wondering if the Secretary of State will fully implement them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u79	You have seen this in the letter I sent to the Chamber last night, in which I deal extensively with the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. So part of it is, and part of it is still under discussion. So that's being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u80	Fine. So much for the first...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr. Chairman. The wonderful thing is that I am immediately given the answer to Mr Wörsdörfer's question. There's been a conversation with CBS about adjusting that Standard Business Classification, from those SBI codes, to the digital economy. This Standard Business Classification shall be established at European level. The CBS is talking about this with Eurostat, the organisation that supervises this process. It is not a journey of days or months, but even of years. As soon as any information is available, the CBS will inform the Chamber. But with you, I'm a little impatient about this, because our economy is rapidly digitizing, so you're missing important information here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u82	Fine. So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. I would like to give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. Of course, thanks in particular for the commitments made to see whether the law should be amended in relation to entrepreneurs who suffer from all kinds of unwanted advertising, at least to see if that could be arranged or perhaps through a decision. So we are very much looking forward to the way the Secretary of State is going to inform us, and we hope that the Secretary of State will be able to do so soon. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue, at least as far as I am concerned, of database law. It was discussed here that it was the wish that private companies should not take over the role of the government. They don't. Private companies provide very different services. The Trade Register is essential for this, but it is only one of the ingredients. These companies enrich the information. The law gives the Chamber of Commerce the task of keeping the Commercial Register complete, complete and correct, and they do so in themselves very well, but it is of course up to the companies to offer the development and enrichment of the data as a service. These companies simply pay the Chamber of Commerce for the information. I cannot escape the impression that funding is also the issue here. I'll find out a little bit. There should be no shadow registrations. I just tried to show in an interruption that that is not the case. From a register that does not come from the Trade Register, everyone is fully aware of where those dates come from. I think that's important, too. But funding is actually the real issue. The companies are simply paying for that, and I think that is right. If the Chamber of Commerce brings database law into its own, I see a risk that it will make it difficult for companies to do their business. That's what I'm thinking as an important point. I think we have agreed on some points. The Secretary of State says that a hook is not really necessary. And that is also true, because the Databases Act, and not this provision, determines whether there is database law. After that, there was actually a slightly different answer, namely that incorporating the reservation into the law is important because it secures database law. That's not true. The Databases Act describes whether there is a database right or not. Public organisations can only make use of that database right if they make that reservation. In fact, the Chamber of Commerce has already made that reservation, as I have just said, so the certainty is already there. If there is database law, the Chamber of Commerce can simply invoke it. So that doesn't take any of it. Then there was a comment on the case law and the criteria. I actually wanted to stay away from that because that is an incredibly complicated subject. Of course, it's about someone producing the register. That is what we are talking about here. But it is also a question of exactly what funds have been spent and whether this is related to the database or not. In this case, you could argue that the database is a derivative of the fact that the Chamber of Commerce has the legal task of promoting and filling out that Trade Register. The legal argument is that this link is not there and therefore there is no database law. Again, that's all important because I don't think you should drive the companies in the wheels. At the same time, I have also tried to make it clear that I am against shadow registers and that privacy should simply be regulated. Then I have one more comment. It is a bit related to the European directive that is about to be amended. I cannot escape the impression that this is a question of financing. In the note following the further report, it covered, among other things, open data and privacy, but also funding. On this point, the Secretary of State wrote that the discussion on this issue should first become crystal-clear in relation to the European developments mentioned above, i.e. the amendment of the Regulation. In other words, the Secretary of State says there: let's wait and see. My advice would be: let us wait and see about database law and that reservation. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u84	Very good. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma. He's giving up a second term. Then Mr Wörsdörfer was not only the first speaker, but also the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's literally progressing. I'm gonna suspend for two minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's closing words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u85	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr. Chairman. The only second-term speaker was Mr Wörsdörfer, who once again pleaded for his amendment not to include the reservation of database law in the Trade Register Act, although the same reservation with regard to the Kadaster was previously included by this Chamber in the law governing the Kadaster. I will try to go to Mr Wörsdörfer, because I think that in his perception there are two things that are interrelated but do not frustrate each other. Re-use of government data is the starting point of policy. Those rules regulate the conditions for re-use of public sector information. For similar cases, these should be the same and re-use should not be unnecessarily restricted. Mr Wörsdörfer has a bit of a twin mind. On the one hand, he is pleased that the Chamber of Commerce includes in individual agreements that it reserves its right to use databases and he is pleased that it is also mentioned on a website. On the other hand, he's gonna have a problem if we just put that in the law crystal clear. I am not entirely clear what importance it serves. He raises the question of whether data dealers will no longer be able to do business if database law is incorporated into the law and whether we will not drive them into the wheels when re-using data for the creation of new, innovative products. No. The only thing that rules database law crystal clear is that there is no misunderstanding about the origin of data, so that it is crystal clear that the only person who is allowed to present himself as the holder of the Commercial Register and who is also accountable to the current, complete and correct keeping of that data is the Chamber of Commerce. Finally, he asked: should we not wait for the European debate on this new PSI directive? No, that's okay. Once again, imagine that it will soon be settled that many more dates will have to be made available from the Chamber of Commerce. Then it is still the case that if you include in the law that the database law for the Trade Register is in the Chamber of Commerce, then anyone can use and enrich that information. But no one may then present themselves as the holder of the Trade Register.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u87	Very good. That sounds like nice closing words to me. Oh, I see that Mr Wörsdörfer has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u88	Excuse me, Mr President, but the Secretary of State is here throwing in the arena what interest I would really serve. I explained very clearly in the first term why I do not think this is a good plan. That reservation is made on the website of the Chamber of Commerce, of course, is fine. That's what the Chamber of Commerce itself does. And I understand that, because of course they want negotiating space with those companies. There's nothing wrong with that. What I have said is that this does not lead to the existence of that database right. If we now put this into the law, we, as legislator, will send a signal of what we think as legislators. I do not think that is correct, because I do not think that is the case. So that's why I'm bringing that up here. It doesn't add up. Again, the Secretary of State himself shielded with the example of the Land Registry Act. She herself indicated in the first period that that is a very different register. So that still doesn't convince me. Mr. Chairman. This wasn't really a question. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u89	What the Land Registry agrees with the Trade Register is that it is a public register designed to defend the interests of legal certainty. That's why you're imposing that database right here. Again, the inclusion of a database right is in no way a barrier for entrepreneurs to earn money from data that keeps the Chamber of Commerce with financial efforts up-to-date, complete and correct. They just can't put that in the world anymore as KvK registrations. Mr. Chairman. It is, I think, good to emphasise that here once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u90	Very good. So far. Thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-29-tweedekamer-5.u91	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law and the amendment. I'll suspend for half an hour before lunch. This means that we have an oath at 1.55 p.m., followed by the arrangement of work. Then there will be a debate on infrastructure and the environment. So I'm suspending until 1:55 p.m. Then we have the swearing-in of our new colleague, Mrs Palland. Come and see! Then the settlement and then we will continue with the next debate. So far.
