ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Corporate Tax Act 1969 and the Law on dividend tax 1965 in connection with some urgent repairs on the tax unit (Emergency Tax Unit Act) (34959). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u3	Madam President. Today is a sad day for fiscal Netherlands. Thanks to a judgment of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg and the subsequent ruling of the Supreme Court, the axe has been put at the root of the well-functioning and thought-out concept of fiscal unity. More than 80% of the companies using them are SMEs. This is an example in which the functioning of European law is at the expense of Dutch tax law. In the written procedure, we discussed in detail a series of technical questions which are of practical importance. We thank the government, the Secretary of State, for the comprehensive and careful response. In this debate we want to concentrate on two issues: retroactivity and implementation. In his reply of 14 March last to our questions, the Secretary of State lists again how the policy, as formulated by the Council of State, should be applied retroactively to tax measures. The principle is that tax measures which increase the tax burden on the taxable person should not be allowed to have any (formal) retroactive effect, unless special circumstances justify a derogation from this rule. Special circumstances may consist of significant announcemental effects, anticipation behaviour or extensive misuse or misuse of a legal provision. Of course, there are also substantial budgetary consequences. The question that arises is whether that is the case in the present case. First, the actual course of events. On 25 October 2017, Advocate General Campos Sánchez-Bordona delivered his Opinion in two joined cases against the State of the Netherlands concerning the tax unit. We share the government's view at the time that the Court of Justice in Luxembourg was particularly likely to be able to follow all or part of the conclusion, also given that the Court had decided not to deal with the case orally. There was therefore no longer an opportunity for advocacy notes on the part of the State of the Netherlands. Here is a brief interrogation to the Secretary of State. If he had known that then, or rather, if his predecessor had known that then, would there have been any other proceedings during the written procedure? On 25 October 2017, the Ministry of Finance issued a press release. We can justify this because of the high risk that companies would use it to subtract non-deductible 10a interest rates from the cross-border tax unit that would be expected if the Court accepted the conclusion. This could have led to a loss of profits and major, unacceptable budgetary consequences. However, we wonder whether the measures announced were sufficiently known. A lot has been written about it in professional literature. Attorney General Wattel has also said the necessary things. Would the Secretary of State care to reconsider that? In my opinion, tax Netherlands was in limbo from the moment the press release was published until the publication of this bill. Moreover, the retroactive effect, initially until 25 October 2017, according to the announcement in the press release, was reduced to 1 January 2018 by letter of amendment of 26 October 2018. We can go along with you that the danger of erosion of the Dutch corporate tax base and the resulting budgetary loss at the time of the release of the press release justified the threat of retroactive effect, even if the Court of Justice in Luxembourg and the Supreme Court had yet to rule. At that time, you calculated the incidental loss at 354 million and the structural loss at 100 million. I'm gonna drop the underlying calculations. I have written it out in my text, but for the sake of time I do not mention it now. All I'd like to say about that is that they're assumptions, a whole series of assumptions. In retrospect, it will have to be established whether those assumptions are justified. We understand that you, in spring 2019, now that the dust has come down, for the period behind us, and then I only refer to the calendar year and tax year 2018.... still in the written answers to our questions speaks in the present tense, as it were October 25, 2017 to justify the retroactive effect. In the meantime, in response to our written questions, you have calculated that the budgetary importance for 2018 is still 100 million, as is the case with the draft law. Let us assume that all these assumptions are correct. Then we still ask ourselves in good conscience whether the one-off budgetary interest of 100 million for 2018 you have calculated is such that this justifies a breach of the principle of legal certainty. That's a review now, ex nunc and also ex post. We see this explicitly as the task of the First Chamber, especially now that we know that there is no anticipatory behaviour and abuse or misuse. In the end, it is the willing companies who have to pay the bill, while they have simply used the legislation in force at the time. Is a one-off setback of 100 million over 2018 really so substantial that there is an "exceptional case', while the government budget surplus for 2018 amounts to 11.3 billion? All this, I also realize that this is a very special situation. The threat posed by the press release has done its job in terms of anticipation and mitigation of the budgetary risk, but that does not prevent us from ex-post checking whether this retroactivity was really necessary. An appeal to anticipation behavior in spring 2019 about the closed tax year 2018 doesn't make sense, does it? And the Secretary of State does use that as one of the two supporting arguments to our written questions. The question is therefore whether the Secretary of State wishes to go into this again. Moreover, is it not even time for all these different sources from 1997, the letter from supposedly the letter from De Jager and what the Council of State has said about it, describing the policy of retroactive effect on tax measures, to be laid down in an updated note in 2019? This kind of special matter can then also be taken into account under European law. Madam President. With regard to the retroactive effect on a specific part of this bill, Article 13.l, we are no longer able to follow the Secretary of State. The scheme has been abolished from 2019. Fortunately, it was a dragon of an arrangement, which once came into the law because of the case law of the Court of Justice on the exemption of participation, but that aside. The budgetary importance for the retroactive effect to expire until 1 January 2018 is 6 million, as the Secretary of State clearly stated in the written reply, and yet he wants to keep that arrangement intact for 2018, while companies face material retroactivity. They will have to ignore the tax unit before 2018 before 13.l and they will be confronted with transactions that they have done within the tax unit before 2018. Your own Tax Administration says that it is not possible to maintain and execute this particular part in its own execution test. The Council of State also pointed this out. Parliament, and indeed a First Chamber, is there not to be able to say afterwards that this is not good legislation, taking the retroactive effect, legal certainty and the execution test seriously, especially since the First Chamber has given so much attention to the execution test during this period? In other words, what fur must it be like to justify an adjustment? The Secretary of State's answer speaks volumes. A procedure concerning the tax year 2014 is added. In my opinion, that is what I think is happening, but maybe I'm wrong about 2018 - nothing to do with it. I think it is much more important that he then says in the written reply that it is undesirable to take the retroactive effect on this particular section of Article 13.l out of the draft law. He says "unwanted" and not "unacceptable." In our view, the disproportionate administrative burden on companies to maintain Article 13 (1) is also not taken into account. In fact, enforcement is being applied to companies, because the Tax Administration cannot maintain it. It seems that the Secretary of State and the Government do not want a novelle on Article 13.l. In December 2015, as a fresh member of this Chamber, I was able to really experience that a novelle can be completed within ten days, including the adoption of the amended bill by the Upper Chamber. Where there's a will, there's a way. Finally, I would like to see a clarification. If the retroactive effect is maintained for all measures, as currently envisaged in the draft law, taxable persons may assume that this applies only to the financial years starting on or after 1 January 2018. I'd like a confirmation from the government. We await the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the legislative proposal and the circumstances of its handling in this Chamber, I would like to make two procedural observations. I am surprised that Mr Van Rij has not changed his speaking time on this subject. In addition to EC membership, he has a relationship as a partner with Ernst & Young Tax Advisors, an office that serves or can serve customers who have a material interest in the bill. And because it concerns customers and potential customers, the tax office also has a material interest and then also the partner of the office. Furthermore, it appears that the CDA Group did not effectively insist on this change. I am also surprised by Mr Van Rij's failure to report on the written input and the oral contribution of his functional conflict of interest, the possible functional conflict of interest or its possible appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u6	When I went to this Chamber this morning for my swan song 'This is, I think, my last participation in a plenary debate 'I could not have imagined that the SP side would pay me so much tribute and that my good mood could get an extra injection. However, I am very surprised at what Mr Reuten is putting forward here on behalf of the SP. Firstly, I am standing here and I have been here for the last four years as a member of the CDA Group. My input is purely content, technical and political in nature when it comes to the CDA. Mr Reuten, I can assure you that there are a number of people in my professional group who are very upset that I have asked written questions, because they will benefit from the speedy handling of this bill. I'm doing my job here, as well as you, as a Member of Parliament. I think you're making a nasty accusation here. I understand that the SP has been narrowed down a little after the election defeat. I'm not used to this from SP. I have experienced the SP in several committees and on several topics these four years as a strictly substantive party that always does the homework well. Madam President. I would like to suggest to Mr Reuten that he reconsider what he has just said. If he asks me to change, I'll throw it far from me. I would also like to continue the debate with him, because I have not seen any written input from the SP on this bill. I am therefore very interested in his input in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u7	I just told the CDA spokesperson integrity obligations. I'm glad he feels touched by that, because that makes him hope for a future turn of events.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. I can help Mr Reuten out of the dream. It's totally unrelated to this, but I'm out of my partnership Ernst & Young, because my career as a tax advisor is over. And the same goes for my career here in the First Chamber. For the rest, I would like to say to Mr Reuten for his peace of mind that I have not served customers for a year. But keep going!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u9	All right, Mr President, I now turn to the legislative proposal and specifically to its retroactive effect. As has already been said, the proposal amends two laws following a ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union. My group supports the proposal, including its retroactive effect. The three most relevant dates for the retroactive effect of the bill are the following. That is, firstly, 25 October 2017, the day on which the Advocate General delivered his Opinion at the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case giving rise to the legislative proposal. The same day, as has already been said, the then Secretary of State for Finance wrote a letter to the States General and a press release explaining the scope of the present bill, including its retroactive effect, until the same day. That is the second time 22 February 2018, the day of the relevant ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thirdly, 4 June 2018, the day on which the bill was submitted to the House of Representatives. With the Government and the Council of State, the SP Group considers that tax measures which increase taxation should not be given retroactive effect unless special circumstances justify a derogation from this rule. In the opinion of the SP Group, the Secretary of State has sufficiently substantiated the special grounds for retroactive effect in the explanatory memorandum, including the letter and press release of 25 October 2017. The Council of State has no comments on these grounds. Mr. Chairman. I come to my last topic. This concerns the date of retroactive effect and the date of entry into force of the law governing it. On the one hand, the retroactive effect of a date in the past and the date of acceptance of such a law in the First Chamber and its placement in the Official Journal of the European Communities on the other are two different matters. The law governing retroactive effect should be in force as soon as possible. The draft law before us is therefore rightly called an emergency act. The proposal was presented to the Chamber's Finance Committee last 19 February, on which the committee issued a blank final report in order to be able to do it as a hammer piece. The Ministry had officially indicated its commitment to the early examination of this bill with regard to its retroactive effect. On 5 March, at the request of the CDA group, the bill was removed from the hammerpieces agenda. On the same day, Mr Van Rij asked the Finance Committee for written consultation with the Secretary of State, which ultimately resulted in two rounds of written consultation and today's plenary debate. I do not go along with his motives, nor do I claim that the information requested is not relevant, although this information could have been requested even after the proposal has been accepted. I merely note that the possible date of entry into force of the law governing the measures and their retroactive effect has been considerably delayed, I assume until 23 or 24 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u10	I have Mr Reuten very high, just because of his seniority, but I really do not understand this. What I have done on behalf of the CDA Group is to make use of the right of every member of this Chamber to make a written contribution. We will hear from the Secretary of State whether that has made sense or not. I myself think, on behalf of the group, that the questions for practice, as I have also said, were extremely relevant to both the Tax Administration and to the taxpayers............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's done at high speed, under pressure, not to slow down. I note that this bill was submitted to the House of Representatives in June last year. It took the House of Representatives eight and a half months. If the bill comes to the vote next week, this Chamber has de facto taken two months. Should the bill be adopted without amendment, and it looks like it is, then the date of retroactive effect is just 1 January 2018. So I don't see your whole point. If you want to make an ad-homine attack, so be it. Then that's your right. But I don't see your business point. Unfortunately, at the end of your speech, I note that you have nothing further to say about this bill. I'm not used to that from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u11	What has happened in the Lower House is not our concern. What we may be dealing with is what happens in this Chamber. The SP Group did not obstruct the first written round. Asking questions is also the right of Members. We thought the second round went too far. That is what we have said in committee. Furthermore, I did not say that Mr Van Rij's questions are not relevant. They are. I merely said that these questions could have been asked afterwards. That is partly an answer to what has just been said. I'll close with that. This is my first contribution in almost nine years, in which I do not ask a governeer for anything, nor do I point out any shortcomings in a legislative proposal. That depends on the nature of it. Nevertheless, I would like to wait for any comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Reuten. I'm looking at the ruler, at the Secretary of State. Is he gonna be able to answer directly? Yeah? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I think that I can go into the questions as they were asked at once. If, by chance, I have forgotten something, I can always take over the last point in the second period. I have read and wrote well and hope that I do have answers to most of the questions. Indeed, it is true that today we are talking about the draft law on emergency repair, as was stressed, fiscal unit. That bill has indeed already been adopted by the House of Representatives on 12 February; so now the final vote in plenary is here. I would just like to say that I am grateful to your Chamber for the speed with which this bill is dealt with in this Chamber, although this is due to the nature of the bill. However, I would like to emphasise this, perhaps in view of the previous debate. The tax unit in corporation tax is extremely important, as many of you know, but at the same time it has been under attack in Europe for years. As Mr Van Rij rightly pointed out, this bill is actually a result of the ruling of the European Court with which we had to deal, to put it in good Dutch. Many technical questions have already been raised in the written round in the Second, but also in your Chamber. In this respect, I would particularly like to thank Mr Van Rij for the questions he has asked about the legislative proposal, especially the questions about retroactive effect. I believe that, at all stages of the legislative process, this is an important part of preventing us from revisiting with retroactive effect the reality of citizens, businesses or other taxable persons that they had when they came to reality. I also think it is very logical and perhaps right that these issues should be dealt with in your chambre de réflexion. Then I shall also speak a little French towards Mr Van Rij. Maybe back to the beginning, the tax unit. As you know, the core of it is that a group of corporate tax payers makes a declaration as if it were a single taxable person. This is usually very much in line with economic reality. One of the principles we use in taxation is that it should not really matter whether a group organises its activities in a single company or whether it needs several companies to do so. In the Netherlands there are about 100,000 tax units and they have about 200,000 daughters. In fact, you can see that this system of fiscal unit at least for 200,000 companies means that they do not have to make their own declarations. That's nice for them, but let's face it, let's be honest, it's also nice for the Tax Administration, because it doesn't have to check these 200,000 either. What was also quite rightly said is that the fiscal unit is particularly important for SMEs. 87% of the 100,000 tax units are actually active in that SME segment. The remaining 13% is thus formed by the larger companies. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that the tax unit is a wonderful tool and at least not a tool for tax avoidance. Perhaps that idea has arisen a little in the debate. In the follow-up to the question of why we considered this time to be a retrograde force, I am going to say that in certain cases there may be base erosion, but in itself the fiscal unit is not a tool for bad behaviour by companies. I think this is important to stress once again here. At the same time, we have to admit that there are a lot of procedures in Europe on this issue too. We also know that most of the statements in Europe have resulted mainly in an erosion of the base and of the fiscal unit as we have ever thought up in the Netherlands. And today's debate is another consequence of that. Just before this cabinet took office, a letter to the Chamber explained what the problem was. The retroactivity is, as far as I am concerned, the most important part of today's debate. Mr Van Rij asks about the budget. "Is 100 million for the year 2018 so to speak big enough to say that we have some sort of reason to resort to this legal certainty by means of retroactive force a little bit of violence?" I think it is important to stress once again that this draft law contains some emergency repair measures to prevent acute damage to the Dutch Treasury and to ensure that at the same time no further incremental damage can occur. So in a sense it was really a damage control button that was turned on. And Mr Van Rij recognizes what was indeed the case: the potential gap was perhaps even greater in the first instance. In fact, the anticipating effect of the retroactive force element, which we announced in the press release, has led us to believe that the 2018 budget will amount to 100 million. Is that the only reason? No. As we have indicated in previous answers, it is actually a combination of two factors. On the one hand, there is a budgetary loss of quite a considerable amount. At the same time, we have identified the undesirable erosion of the tax base as undesirable for the year 2018. We have also indicated this in the answers. Mr Van Rij said that he was still going a long way, albeit a little less so in the latter. He was also right to ask whether the companies knew this, whether it was sufficiently known. I actually think it was very special what we did, namely with retroactive effect and taking into account the view of the Council of State on this issue, to table a legislative proposal on a case which we very much expected to lose at the European Court of Justice. We also thought at that time: in this case it is so exceptional that we want to do so. Because of that press release and, in fact, the fact that there was so much to do in business about this scheme and its retroactive effect, I had the feeling that the awareness grew quite quickly, although it was only because we later indicated that, for example, there was a transitional arrangement for SMEs, because we wanted that where we saw abuse... We knew that abuse would largely not belong to SMEs. That is why we immediately adopted a transitional measure. I think that is why, in our opinion, the level of awareness was sufficiently high. In any case, it was also intended that, in this announcement, we should describe as precisely as possible the content of the emergency repair measures and under what circumstances we decided to apply them in the end. In summary and in summary: in the opinion of the Cabinet, the measures have been sufficiently known to the taxpayer. Mr Van Rij also asked about the procedures. In fact, he asked: have we done the best we can since this time we are not allowed the oral input, which is normally there? And if we had known that, would we have made our written contribution differently? The answer is that it is not. We normally assume that the oral part only lasts 15 minutes. Often you have very long and complicated pieces that explain that, so in fact we already take into account in the preparation that that oral is perhaps a dessert after the main course and that the main course is the written input. So I do not think you can say: if we had known that we could not intervene orally, we would have done our written contribution differently. We have done the best we could with all the arguments we had to make our point. Once again, we thought differently than the Court finally decided. For the oral part, we were disappointed that it could not be done, but that did not affect the process further. It is a bit of an overlap of the first question on the loss, but Mr Van Rij also asked explicitly whether I could confirm that the incidental loss over the series of closed tax years remains equal to the calculation at that time, if I paraphrase him properly. We still think, on the basis of the available data, that the estimate of 372 million, the estimate we had given as incidental losses, is the most reliable estimate. We have no reason to think that it might have been quite different in retrospect. Mr Van Rij also asked for retroactive effect. He understands that the cabinet writes that it is an exceptional case and that it is quite complicated. Apparently in 1997 and 2007 ministers of mine tried to visualize how you're doing with retroactive effect. We shall soon agree on the starting points. In principle, you do not use it, unless Mr Van Rij correctly mentioned the list that we also use and that the Council of State sees it as a fair list of special circumstances that make you do it anyway. The question is whether you should not update all the considerations used. I talked to the team about that this afternoon. The problem we encounter is that this case itself indicates that many of these cases are unique because of the way you treat them. You can entrust a lot of words to paper, with the principles that Mr Van Rij himself formulated, you can write down what you want to take into account, but reality is often very complex. I am thinking, for example, of a combination of basic erosion and budgetary regulation, or of a combination with a Court of Justice, which we already knew was moving in a certain direction. It is therefore extremely difficult to write this policy down once and for all in such a way that we all agree on it and have no exception anymore. I believe that the policy, the starting points that have emerged in the previous letters and also the guidance of the Council of State in its opinions are still topical and probably will not gain much more strength if we change it or put it back or forth again. The practice is already responding to it. I understand very well where the question comes from. It is also right that we should be clear about this. We do not differ so much about the principles we apply, but the guidelines of the Council of State give us the guidance we use again in this case. Mr Van Rij had another question about the novelle. He understands that I don't have it high on my wish list, but he does say: know how quickly we can arrange it. I immediately believe that this can be arranged very quickly in certain cases, but then you must want it. I'm in something different than Mr Van Rij. In fact, I do not see any reason to allow the urgent repair measures that we have now declared applicable not to the reduction of interest rates on excessive interest rates; for those who love it, I know that the President is one of them. We are talking about Article 13l. That is the article on excessive interest rates. Why don't we want that? It is true that the budgetary framework might be limited, but this too is actually a fundamental choice of ours, because we believe that its use will lead to a further year of basic erosion. Although its budgetary impact is not so great, in the opinion of the cabinet it is undesirable, precisely in view of the policy agenda that I myself actively carry out. Then there's the feasibility. It is true what Mr Van Rij says, namely that some of these urgent repairs are difficult. There are five who would be subject to an execution test by the Tax Administration, but that is quite complicated. For one it would be possible, but under special conditions. It was asked earlier whether I would take an execution test against the wishes of the Tax Administration. No, we found, on the basis of the execution test, that it was possible, but under a number of conditions. I have indicated that I would take it very seriously when it comes to the tax authorities' feasibility test from day one. If it is indicated that it can only be done under the conditions x, y and z, then I think we should listen to it. That is why we said: under specific conditions and the conditions laid down by this Chamber with regard to the excessive interest rate regime, it should be repealed in the Corporate Tax Act from 2019. That has also been done by the adoption of the law. That was part of last year's tax plan. It could also be used further, for example through selective supervision. We have taken that into account, but in the end we have decided that the risk-based supervision that the Tax Administration has might take place a little more limited, but could go on. That is why we have come to the conclusion that it was feasible. It did not seem like a question, but at the end of his speech Mr Van Rij asked whether all the measures in the legislative proposal would apply retroactively to the financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This is suddenly a larger group than the group we had selected before. In fact, we argue that the retroactive effect is limited to 1 January 2018 and not until the beginning of the financial year as of 1 January 2018. That was, as Mr Reuten pointed out, an adjustment of the earlier date of 25 October 2017. For many taxpayers, with a limitation of retroactive effect, it was thus avoided that the 2017 declaration, which was the idea behind it, would have to be adapted to take account of the emergency repair measures. Further limiting the retroactive effect for the financial years beginning on or after 1 January would lead to additional losses. We have calculated this on an occasional basis at least 13 million. A further limitation would also lead to recourse to the European Court's ruling in cross-border situations in more cases. That is actually the combination of a budgetary attachment, but also the possibility of base erosion for a year longer. I understand that it would be easy for a number of companies to bring that retroactive force even further forward, but this is really meant to bring it to an end on 1 January 2018. I am therefore not in favour of the idea of extending this further. I hope I have answered the questions I have been asked with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you. We're due for the second term of the Chamber. I call Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply. I will take three elements out of that. We agree that the release of a press release was inevitable and a good thing. That was pure damage control, as the Secretary of State described. I explained this in my first term. What I meant by the requirement of public awareness: this has to do with the extent to which the press release clearly indicated the measures that would be taken if the opinion of the Advocate General were taken up by the Court of Justice and subsequently by the Supreme Court. You can question that. The question was whether sufficient attention was given in the press release to the requirement of comprehension in professional literature. The second point concerns the procedure. The Secretary of State was clear. I think it is important for the parliamentary debate that he should say reflectively: we have gone before the Court and even if there had been an oral hearing and even if we could have made use of a plea note, it would not have led to us having come up with other arguments or having led the Court to a different view on a number of factual points. The impression is that the Court of Justice in Luxembourg, not consisting of fiscalists, may not have understood all the finesses of the Dutch fiscal unit when it gave its ruling. The last point concerns retroactive effect. I understand that the Secretary of State does not need to record the policy or the progressive understanding of the policy in a note. That's why I'd like to table this motion. The President shall: Mr Van Rij, Mr Atsma, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor and Mr Flierman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the granting of retroactive effect on tax measures is possible only if there is an exceptional case;]] [[noting that it is necessary, where appropriate, to announce repair measures by press release in order to avoid unwanted anticipation behaviour and substantial budgetary consequences;]] [[noting that the current draft law on the immediate repair of tax units (34959) raises serious doubts as to the retroactive effect and elements of implementation;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a policy note setting out clearly and clearly the criteria to which both ex ante and ex post tax measures are subject retroactively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34959-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u16	Rounding up. On the issue of excessive interest rates, Article 13l, I would like to say that the Council of State was indeed critical of the aspect of retroactive effect. I would ask the Secretary of State to answer the following question in the second term. 13l shall continue to apply for 2018. This means that in a situation of excessive holding interest the tax unit does not apply. In a simple situation, this implies, among other things, the following. If you have a balance sheet with a mother who has a participation and a claim, and on the other hand own funds and debt, let's just say 175/175, balance sheet total 175................................................................................................................................................................ Now that the tax unit is not applicable, this has consequences, including for transactions from a long way before 2018. In such a situation, however, this leads to a substantial tax revenue. Will the Secretary of State at least promise that he will look carefully at this in practice, because it is not possible for 13l to be maintained and materially lead to a retroactive effect that goes much further than 1 January 2018 and that the treasury is overstretched? It's only about 800 companies, the Secretary of State writes, so that should be possible. One last question, and then I'm really gonna stop, Mr. Chairman. The State Secretary's reply to the financial year is clear. He says: I cannot promise that this legislation will only apply to financial years that started on or after 1 January 2018. Do I understand correctly that, for example, if a company started its financial year on 1 July 2017, it may opt for previous retroactive effect or for the application of a cut which partly applies legislation of 2017 and partly of 2018? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. My second term is only procedural. My first-term input was the subject of discussion in my group. The other Members followed me with some hesitation. I would like to stress that I or my group have nothing against Mr Van Rij personally. The issue concerns only his spokesmanship in the present legislative proposal. In the last year, the Chamber considered it necessary to tighten up the Code of Conduct on Integrity. That should make every Member of Parliament extra alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u19	That remains to be decided definitively, Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u20	Yeah, I mean the concept of that. You're absolutely right, Mr. President. Nevertheless, I see it as my task to follow up on what has been set out in the draft.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr. Reuten. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. You're making a gesture, what does that mean? Is it one minute, two minutes, five minutes? Oh, it means 13l. You already let me know that I know everything about 13l. It is a very important point to me, that 13l. How much time do you need, three minutes? It's 4:31 p.m. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:35 p.m. In 13l, the Secretary of State is going to think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u22	We will proceed with the examination of bill 34959. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Mr President, I think I still have four questions to answer that have been put to me. As far as Article 13l is concerned, I needed a little more time to understand exactly what the question was. But let me start with the questions about the expression. In fact, Mr Van Rij says: okay, I heard what the Secretary of State called in that press release, but was it concrete enough to say what was announced there? I think I have to say the same thing again: yes, we have looked at it again and for everything we knew there and knew it could happen, we have entrusted all the concrete thoughts that we could have entrusted to the paper, including to the paper. So the answer is, I really think we got everything out of the closet that we could. I'll answer the questions first and then go into the motion. Mr Van Rij's last question was about retroactive effect and the financial year. He actually said: can we not interpret this in such a way that people can still voluntarily go back and forth with the financial year limits? We looked at that and the answer is: it can't be. It's really just a legal thing. The retroactive effect applies at one time and we cannot change this within the law. I'm afraid I don't have much to offer in that regard. The same applies to the renowned Article 13l. In fact, I think Mr Van Rij is asking: can you not be flexible in practice with the companies affected? 'Cause there's only 800 of them. In fact, the story is there again: first of all it is not up to me, but to the inspector, who ultimately has to give a ruling on it. It has the law in its hand and that law indicates how to deal with it in practice. I can, I guess, so really not that crazy with it. I can imagine that some of these companies submit the cases to the inspector and say: this is an issue for us, perhaps I would like something with it. But for me it is not possible to give the practice a clue for that other than the law. Also at the point of 13l I do not think I can be that crazy at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u24	Thank you, particularly on this very specific point of 13l. Thank you also for the commitment that case positions can be presented. What concerns me, in particular, are the following situations. I'm just saying, a little charged. Suppose a company in the tax unit made a transaction in 2000, as I just described in the second term, because there is material retroactivity to 13l. This does not go back to 1 January 2018, because in 2018 there is no tax unit for 13l. Then the 2000 transaction can hit back on the year 2018, regardless of the fact that it's all administratively a lot of hassle. That in practice with some, I would say, coulance is dealt with... 'Cause there's no plan at all. Companies just did what they could when they were under the law. Surely it cannot be that we will have a return well above the 6 million losses calculated if that retroactive effect were to come out in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u25	That 6 million is the net effect. It's not like it costs 6 million first and we're unintentionally picking up all kinds of money here. That's really not our expectation. But I really think that the essence of my answer is and remains: when it comes to looking at the law with a certain flexibility, it is not up to me but really up to the inspector. It must give the interpretation of the law and how it intends to deal with it. Again, the most far-reaching thing I can say in this is: the law is the law. Unless we change the law. The inspector's got the law in hand and he's gonna do it. I don't know the cases and I may be much less skilled at them than you or other fiscalists, but if it turns out to be really unreasonable, can I imagine a company going to the inspector and asking: was this really the intention? Again, I don't know and I don't want to go into individual cases either. I really want to keep my distance from that. But that's, I think, the best I can come up with. At least I can't promise anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thank you. I totally understand that. At the same time, what you are saying here is of course very important for the parliamentary treatment and interpretation of the law. You cannot answer individual situations you do not know. But may I interpret it as follows? If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. You say: the legal provision remains, 13l. The retroactive force remains as well. However, in practice, case positions can be presented if it proves to have disproportionate consequences. Then it's up to the inspector to deal with that. I think that, quite frankly, is a very constructive outcome to this exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u27	Okay. Finally, I should like to turn to the motion for a resolution. I've read it willingly for a while. We do not want to be unclear about the way we deal with retroactivity, but we really have the idea that we had a fairly clear policy framework. In this case, we have now followed up on this. However, the third observation of the motion claims that there are still serious doubts about the retroactive effect and elements of implementation in this case. I don't think I agree with that. I think we have chosen very consciously why we are doing what we are doing. I think I just tried to explain that. There were a number of elements in it that we have when we use retroactive force. I think that's putting the reader on the wrong track, so to speak. 'Cause I don't agree with that. Therefore, I do not think it will be clearer in practice if we put that together again. For this reason, I will end up giving the detachment verdict for this motion as well. With that I thought I was at the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-eerstekamer-8.u28	Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next week on the legislative proposal and on the motion tabled. I'm suspending the meeting pending the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
