ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks, for his question to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security on the arrest of the captain of the Sea-Watch ship in Lampedusa port.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. After the Sea-Watch had floated around the Mediterranean for seventeen days with drowning on board 42 rescued from the Mediterranean, the captain, Carola Rackete, decided that there was a humanitarian emergency. She anchored her ship at Lampedusa. It was a humanitarian emergency, because medical assistance was urgently needed on board due to a water shortage. So there was a threat of dehydration from the refugees. There were also refugees who suffered from trauma related to their flight. So the captain decided that there was a humanitarian emergency. She docked her ship at Lampedusa and was arrested. Then two things happened that my questions deal with. One is that the Italian Government said that this was a criminal act that could have been committed up to ten years in prison and the other is that the German Government immediately called for the release of the captain and warned that the saving of human lives should not be criminalised. Madam President, I come to my questions to the Secretary of State. Why is the Netherlands so quiet? Why does the Netherlands not agree with Germany, which is asking Italy to reverse the arrest of Captain Rackete and insist on his release? My second question is: why is the Netherlands not taking a part in solving the problem? There are 42 refugees on board here, which should ideally be divided into 27 Member States of the European Union. The ship sails under the Dutch flag. You could say that the Netherlands has a special responsibility and we are therefore taking a part in this. My third question is: what is the structural solution for de-shipping? The Secretary of State says we're waiting for that structural solution. What are we gonna do as long as that structural solution for deportation isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, Mr Van Ojik asked why the Netherlands did not insist on release. In a letter dated 14 January last, the Netherlands said that it would no longer participate in ad hoc solutions in the case of Sea-Watch 3. That letter clearly stated the need for a structural European solution. And the case of arresting the captain of the Sea-Watch 3 is a matter of Italian jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	I asked three questions. I was assuming that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	This is question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	We do the question for question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	No, then I suggest the Secretary of State also answer the rest of the questions. Then I'll go to you, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	Whatever you say. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	Then I would also like to answer the second question: why does the Netherlands not contribute to a solution, because the ship eventually sails under the Dutch flag? The Netherlands has worked hard to find a solution, firstly because the Netherlands is a flag State. More than a week ago, the Netherlands asked ports in the vicinity through the Ministry of IenW to allow the Sea-Watch 3 to land there. Either no answer has been given or it has been refused by all kinds of ports where it has been requested. The solution could therefore not be reached by the flag State. The third question is what the structural solution looks like. We said in the letter of 14 January that we believe that a structural solution must be sought through the European Commission. We have immediately, more or less at the same time as our responsibility as a flag State to find a port, also called on the European Commission to intervene in this matter for the Sea-Watch 3. That was over a week ago, and it happened right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thanks to the Secretary of State. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that it recognises that the Netherlands, as a flag State, has a responsibility to find a safe harbour. I think it is important that this is said out loud again; there has been some doubt about that in the past. My question to the Secretary of State is: if you acknowledge that responsibility, and the Secretary of State just did so, and you note that the ports you thought were safe or didn't answer or perhaps answer negatively, what do you do? Can you then pull your hands off and say: well, then clearly that responsibility no longer applies? That's my first question. My second question concerns the response to the Italian Government. As I said, the German Foreign Minister has asked Italy to release Mrs Rackete. But he said something important: it is essential that we do not criminalise the rescue of people from the Mediterranean. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether she would like to publicly endorse this statement and whether she would like to say here in the Chamber what is the consequence of finding that you do not want to criminalise the rescue of people from the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	As I said, the responsibility of the Netherlands as a flag State is to ask if there are any ports that would like to receive the ship. There came either no answer or the answer was no. That is the responsibility of the flag State. The responsibility for the people on board is another, and it is not the responsibility of the flag State to ask if there is a port that wants to take the people on board or the ship. With regard to the following, which Germany has said 'we must not criminalise the rescue of the sea', I have to tell you that in this situation the Sea-Watch 3 in the SAR area, or the Search and Rescue area, has taken the people on board. They weren't drowning; the boat they were in wasn't sinking. The Libyan Coast Guard has also been there and was willing to take the people, to put them back ashore in Libya. The Sea-Watch 3 could have set course for Tunisia when they had taken the people on board. The Sea-Watch 3 has chosen to set course for Lampedusa. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	That, in turn, raises the question of how you can say 'I am responsible for finding a safe haven' and that you apparently assume that such a safe haven is present in Libya. We all know, and I assume the Secretary of State knows, what the situation is in the camps where refugees end up in Libya. A member of this cabinet said more than a year ago, after a visit there: these camps must be closed immediately. Now there's a secretary of state who says we could have brought those people back to Libya. I wonder how that relates to the responsibility that this Secretary of State clearly feels again, and I welcome it for finding a safe haven for these people who have been rescued from the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	I think Mr Van Ojik is confusing two things. The Sea-Watch 3 and Libya as a safe haven, we have not talked about that. It is also the case that, as a flag State, we have taken responsibility for asking if there would be a safe haven. We have not received an answer to that question or have heard 'no', but at the same time we have asked the European Commission to intervene, namely for the other part, and that was not as a flag State. As I have just said, the Sea-Watch 3 could have set a course for Tunisia, but that has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	I believe that the Secretary of State, in very gentle terms, indicates that what the Sea-Watch 3 has done is totally irresponsible, namely to contribute to this human trafficking from Africa to Europe. The question is what is the Secretary of State going to do about it with her colleague who is going to cross the ships to make sure that this ship cannot sail again in order to do nothing but transfer people who are not in danger at the time. And that is because they do not want to cooperate in the policy we do know in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Van Toorenburg says that it is important to work to ensure that the smuggling is stopped. I have to say, perhaps this is a clarification that the Sea-Watch 3 has asked the European Court of Human Rights for a preliminary ruling on this matter. It's been rejected. However, it is my intention to sit down with my colleague from IenW as soon as possible to discuss how we can find a solution in cooperation with the European Commission, which is to provide a structural solution. 'Cause it's something we have to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	I would like to join Mr Van Ojik's appeal to the cabinet to join the Germans in pleading for the release of the captain of the Sea-Watch, because we cannot criminalise those who save others. That's one. Two. I've also heard the Secretary of State say she's jerking her hands off the Sea-Watch. Mr Van Ojik also referred to it: I would like to know from the Secretary of State what this will mean for the future. What's it gonna mean if we get another Dutch flag ship picking up drownings? Are we not going to fulfil that facilitating role in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	I just want to make one thing right. Mr Voordewind tells me that I have said that I am taking my hands off the Sea-Watch. That has indeed been in the press, but I have never used those words. Let me get this straight. With regard to getting together with Germany to say that this is not possible, to put it simply, I note that we have been very clear in the letter of 14 January on how we want to look at this matter of the Sea-Watch 3. We have said that we believe that a structural solution must be found at European level. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	Last week's events once again underline the need for a structural European solution. In the meantime, the number of crossings from North Africa has fallen considerably compared to a number of years ago. There's also a blueprint. People need to be deported. People who have the right to protection should be divided by a distribution key. People who do not have that right must return to the country of origin. However, the question is how the cabinet is going to work to ensure that this blueprint is actually translated into policy. That is my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have just told Mrs Van Toorenburg that at least I am in contact with my colleague from IenW. Once again, this European solution is at the heart of the matter. Soon we will have discussions at European level on how to do this, because this situation is, of course, extremely complicated for all parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	Your second question, Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	My second question. This sounds like hope. Someone taught me once that hope is not a strategy. The question is how the cabinet is going to make an effort to achieve this. The cabinet likes to insist that we have about the most experienced statesman in Europe, who fights all kinds of things in Brussels that others can't do. Then I would say: put the political weight of the Prime Minister in order to make a breakthrough here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	I think the Prime Minister is fully aware of the whole matter of the Sea-Watch 3. I say, hope brings life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	It's very good that that captain was imprisoned. Salvini once again proves himself a hero of Europe. I hope that you will urge the Italian Government not to release the captain as soon as possible, but to put him in prison for as long as possible. In this particular case, we see in small detail what is going on in the big, namely a general facilitation of crossing the Mediterranean. That's gotta stop. When I hear you speaking, Madam Secretary of State, I say through the President, about a solution to be found, I think: is that what you mean? Are you saying it has to stop permanently, that no one crosses the sea illegally anymore? Or what are you thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	With regard to Mr Baudet's first point, namely that I must intervene with Italy on the detention of the captain of the ship for as long as possible: that is an internal legal matter for Italy and I do not interfere with that. I can't get involved with that. I think Mr Baudet knows that very well. As far as crossing the Mediterranean is concerned, what we do not want is to increase human trafficking. In fact, we believe that the smuggling of human beings should be stopped. I am not saying that the Sea-Watch 3 is cooperating in human trafficking, perhaps unconsciously, but you have to be very careful with that. I'm not saying that. I say that we must work very hard to prevent human trafficking from Africa towards Italy, towards Europe. I would like to add one more thing, namely that we must do so especially for the people of the countries from which these people come, because they also need them very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	I think it is also very good for Europe that there are not too many people from Africa coming here. Right? We can agree on that. But if you also want this smuggling to stop and all this uncontrolled immigration to stop, can you just say that it's really good what Salvini did? That ship won't come ashore; we'll put that captain on lockdown. What a madness! Why should we facilitate all that? Can't you just say that you support that policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	We know Salvini's policy. You should study our letter of 14 January as well. In it you can read that we have said that a structural European solution must be found. This also means that we would like to do so and we would also like to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u30	That wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u31	No, no, no, no! Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u32	I would like to ask the Secretary of State to reflect on the point that not every migrant who is being pushed into a Search and Rescue area with the help of human smugglers and a GPS tracker on board a boat is being pushed into a Search and Rescue area and then picked up by an NGO, per se is a drowning or a refugee, as was just suggested in the debate. I think that is an essential point. Another point that I would like to ask the Secretary of State to reflect on is that the entire Sea-Watch ship will no longer meet, if I am not mistaken, the safety requirements of ships carrying passengers on 16 August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u33	Whether or not those in those boats are drowning or not, I can't judge. My definition of "drinker" is someone lying in the water. That is the case one time and not the other time. So I'm not going to go into that. Then Mr Van Wijngaarden mentioned 16 August; it is 15 August. Then the Sea-Watch 3 will have to meet the requirements set by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u34	It is, of course, quite scandalous that a boat is sailing under the Dutch flag which is proactively involved in human trafficking, trafficking in human beings, and that there is not really one strong word here from the Secretary of State that she does not say: this must stop; we are not going to facilitate this further. The PVV therefore demands that that boat stays on the chain and is sunk if necessary, but never again, under the Dutch flag, picking up illegal migrants there as the last link in the human trafficking chain. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think I have made it sufficiently clear what the position of the Netherlands is on this issue. I would remind you once again of the letter of 14 January, in which we said: this is the last time we take part ad hocly in this solution; we believe that a structural European solution must be found. As regards the jurisdiction of Italy and the question of whether or not the ship is tied up, whether the captain is in prison and how long he is in prison: that is an Italian matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u36	You can say anything about the boat with these migrants, but the fact is that it's been floating around for weeks now and people on that boat are in terrible conditions. I believe that this shows that Europe and the Netherlands are completely failing in a good migration policy and in a good reception in the region and, if necessary, in Europe. But it is not true that this Secretary of State has said to this boat with the Dutch flag: they can go back to Libya? Surely the Secretary of State agrees with me that Libya is completely unsafe, because there is a war there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u37	Let's be very clear. You'll have to go further with IenW, but as far as I know the answer, I can give it to you. The Netherlands as a flag State did not say: they should return to Libya. That is not the case. The people were taken on board by the Sea-Watch 3 in the SAR area, the Search and Rescue area. There was also a boat from the Libyan Coast Guard, which she could have taken with her to Libya. That didn't happen, because they were on board the Sea-Watch 3. The Sea-Watch 3 could have sailed to Tunisia, but chose to sail to Lampedusa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you.
