ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue the debate on unsafe working situations in asylum seekers' centres as a result of distressing asylum seekers. We have come to the answer by the Secretary of State. I would like to agree with everyone that in this period we will interrupt a question and follow-up twice at most and that we will try to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer all these questions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. When I listen to the first term, I hear a Lower House which is largely unanimous in describing the problem and in suggesting additional suggestions for measures to curb this problem. You will find in me someone who shares the analysis and the seriousness of the problem on behalf of the cabinet in many respects. In recent years, we have faced a very persistent problem of a small, but very persistent group of oppressive asylum seekers. It is a small group compared to the total number of residents of azc's, but it is very large in the unrest it causes. This appeals and puts pressure on the employees in the azc's and not to mention fellow residents and neighbors. It is a limited but also changing group of asylum seekers involved in criminal incidents causing nuisance on and outside the COA locations. The extent to which this plays is fluctuating. The nature and background of the nuisance is often diverse, but the feeling and the pressure on the environment are no less. In conversations with employees of azc's in recent weeks and months, I find the remark of people who say: I have been working at the COA for 20, 30 years now and what we have seen over the last few years, I have not seen before. It didn't happen earlier in the nineties or in the zeros that such a group of wheeldrivers seems so little to reason and can be called to order. Measures that we have already put in place in recent years, for example, under my predecessor, the advent of the ebtl and the sliding scale, but in the last year and a half the introduction of faster procedures for genuinely disadvantaged asylum applications and the earlier detention of troublemakers, are still not enough to curb the nuisance. It is for this reason that I am constantly looking for further tightening up of the measures to make it very difficult for this group. In yesterday's letter to the Chamber, I set out a number of measures. I will go into more detail later, but we are thinking, for example, of a top X approach to the people who cause the most nuisance on the skin. I refer to the tightening up of the regime in the Ebtl in Hoogeveen and the appointment of the national chain marine as a link between all the parties involved, but above all to ensure that there is not a no, but a yes when there is another possibility to make it difficult for this group. They are all measures and often also opportunities that already exist, but which we are further tightening up. They are not measures that have never been used before. We must make every effort to make it clear to this group in conjunction that we are close to their skin and that the Netherlands is not the attractive place that it is often in the minds of many of these especially young men. Mr Voordewind referred to Rules 56 and 59. That's right. Where possible, those measures shall be imposed. It is provisions that offer opportunities, but sometimes also limitations, because the justification requirements are heavy. That is why it is sometimes abandoned. You will be working for hours to support it further, but we will have to use the measures more and more. Mr. Chairman. After this introduction, I would like to take you into account in the way in which I think I will deal with the various subjects. First of all, I would like to comment on the group of oppressors themselves. What do we know about it and what are its characteristics? Then I go on to two things at the source that are very often mentioned. Can't you keep them out of the asylum chain? And two: then we'll bet everything on return, won't we? I will then go into all the measures related to control and further measures. First of all, that's the chain marine, including the top x approach, registration and fast law. I also refer to the suggestions made by several Members of Parliament to strengthen the policy even further. Then I will deal with the questions that have been asked about the ebtl. Then there are a few questions about the separate reception for safe-landers, the possibilities and opportunities for more closed reception, and public transport. Finally, there is a block of other questions, including on Libya. Mr. Chairman. First of all, about the group of oppressors themselves. I told you, it's a persistent group, and even in a historical perspective, they are exceptional in the misconduct they exhibit. They are often safelanders, and that means that they are in a specially developed procedure, which is a fast track that we are trying to get safelanders through the whole procedure within a few weeks. But they could also be Dublin applicants, who have already applied for asylum in another country in Europe. Then it is intended that they return to that other country as soon as possible. It's not a constant group. Unfortunately, the nuisance gets structural pulls and is constant, but it doesn't always happen by the same people. I told you, we are doing everything we can to get this group through the asylum procedure as quickly as possible. In 80% of the people from a safe country of origin, we manage to complete the whole procedure within two weeks. Once the procedure has been completed and no asylum has been granted here, a few things apply. Then there is a zero-day departure period, then there is no right to shelter anymore, and if there are extraditing possibilities, the detention of aliens will arise. Unfortunately, there is still a continuous influx of people from safe countries of origin. But even if I go into some of the measures that have been proposed later, we must bear in mind that the main objective is to make the Netherlands as unattractive as possible for this group with additional measures. It has already been said by many Members of Parliament: it is a group that travels around Europe a bit. When they leave the Netherlands, they go back to another country. But this group also speaks around: what are the countries where shelter seems attractive? What are the countries where they may have long delays in the procedure, so that you can stretch your stay for that reason? For this group we have one message: we try to make the Netherlands as unattractive as possible. This means, for example, that we do not make extensive efforts to allow these people to stay longer in the Netherlands, for example in detention. I will go into Mrs Van Toorenburg's proposal later, but I heard something in the debate: if we stack up everything, we could put them in jail for maybe two years. But the goal is to get them out of the Netherlands. Of course, it starts with the question: what can you do to keep them out of the asylum procedure? I think the most important thing we can do is to show with the whole package of measures that the Netherlands is serious about making it as difficult as possible for this group here. We know that it also affects neighbouring countries very much. I would therefore like to see similar measures being taken in neighbouring countries. I will discuss the international component further later. I'm afraid we can't keep it out of the asylum procedure. When people ask for asylum, we are obliged to complete that asylum procedure. We'll do that for this group as soon as possible. For example, I told you that we have a separate trail for safe people. We are also at the top of the deadlines in the case of the Dublin claims, although we also depend on them when the other Member States approve the takeover. We want to achieve this rapid resolution by rail 2 even further by working on the plan in the coming weeks to keep the reception and the group as a whole together. Saviours then come into a separate shelter, which is obviously sober and where we also look carefully at what further measures we can take to ensure that this group cannot walk in the wild. So you also come up with measures such as an ebtl that we keep in mind. The most important thing is to keep the lead times for both Dublin claimants and safelanders short. All problems with the IND with increasing waiting times do not apply to these two groups. There will be a general discussion next week in which we will discuss this further. I also refer to Mr Jasper van Dijk's question about the motion. He knows it has a financial component, so it's currently under discussion in the cabinet. At the moments of reporting on the budget, spring note, budget, autumn note, I shall come back to Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion in detail. The most important thing is that we remain on top of this group that the procedure is completed as soon as possible. Another question is: how do you ensure that they can return soon, when they are in the Netherlands? I just told you. Once the procedure is completed, there will be a zero-day departure period, there will be no reception and we will be able to work on return or transfer to the other Dublin country. In practice, we see that many of these people, as well as others, leave in the meantime with unknown destination. The fact that we encounter people relatively little afterwards in the supervision in the Netherlands teaches us that it is plausible to assume that many people leave the Netherlands when they see that the procedure is completed and ends in a Dublin transfer or in the decision: I do not get a residence permit here. That's exactly what we want. Wherever possible, of course, we're committed to foreign detention. That is not impossible, not even for groups from countries that do not cooperate very much. As long as we manage to hand over, we have a ground to take others who are at risk of getting out of control in foreign detention. Furthermore, of course, we encounter a number of other problems. Nor is it true that every country is always... Maybe I should give you an opportunity to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	No, I need you to finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	No? Okay. Nor is it the case that every country is always constant in not cooperating in the return of its own nationals. A number of countries were mentioned here this morning in the debate. In Morocco, it is notoriously difficult at the moment, and this is really not just the case with the Netherlands. Even Spain has problems with this under the radar, but so does neighbouring countries. It also fluctuates a bit in time. Let me say in general what helps less to seduce Morocco, without having a value judgment on it. At the moment when they feel that they are being taken into account by other countries, for example on their domestic policies, we see the return figures sinking straight down. A much more persistent problem is Algeria, for example. We have had a number of contacts this spring between the Government of Algeria and the Dutch Government. There was a real commitment, and last year too, to improved arrangements to deliver laissez-passers. The current political situation in Algeria is not helping. But what does not cooperate, of course, is that foreigners themselves realize that if you come from Morocco and you spend as Algerian, the chance that an embassy can cooperate is less. The opposite is happening. Then we can make so many arrangements with a country of origin to cooperate in the provision of papers, but if they are then convinced "you present an Algerian, but we think it is a Moroccan or a Tunisian', then that will fail again. Nevertheless, we are constantly committed to this. I mentioned Algeria, but recently on a visit to Tunisia, a country which also cooperates well, and also other countries in the world are constantly working to strengthen contacts. A little beyond the reach of the oppressors: Iraq has recently been an initiative with a large number of neighbouring countries to include, in the context of the reconstruction of Iraq and the support given by the EU to it, the issue of migration on the agenda and to radiate it, starting with the European Commission and towards other Member States: "Fine if we do so, but migration is one of them. This means that if money is invested in Iraq, Iraqis who have gone to trial, will be taken back." For example, we are working with many countries to further develop this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	A brief question from Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	My question is about return support. We can influence that. The WODC, the research institute of the Ministry itself, says that it is plausible that abolishing and reducing the return of return support has led to reduced demonstrable departure. The Secretary of State doesn't want that. So my question is: what is he going to do to improve that return support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	It is less black and white than Mr Van Ojik proposes. In itself, the assumption is correct, even as the WODC says it. If you offer a generous return support, people are willing to leave. The background of the first abolition and the later very limited recovery of return support to a limited number of countries was that in the meantime we also saw that it had a huge sucking effect. It wasn't just the return itself that worked better. It was also about a much larger group of people who may have come to the Netherlands knowingly to benefit from the return support. We totally abolished it. After that, you saw that things did indeed go very badly with the return support. What we introduced last year is very limited support. It doesn't fit in with the sums people used to get. It is only about what one really needs to arrive in the country of destination and be able to save themselves in the first few days. That has already had quite a positive effect on the return, without talking about people who have come to the Netherlands specifically for that purpose. So it's a stroke more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	The WODC says that it is plausible that this has led to a reduction in the demonstrable return. If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State says that there is no reduction now, because we have now introduced it again. It's very interesting what he says. It doesn't necessarily have to be now, but maybe he can illustrate that by means of figures. We are all talking here on the assumption that this return is going so badly, but the Secretary of State is now saying that things are actually getting better lately. Maybe it would be good to have that substantiated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	The latter is also going to happen, because within a month or so I will let it take hold; I estimate that within two months the policy review on return will appear. It also addresses these kinds of issues. But at the heart of the matter, as far as I am concerned, there is return support for those people who really have legal recourse to it. These are people who think that, on the basis of the country from which they come, they may be entitled to asylum in the Netherlands, who have a real chance of doing so, but who nevertheless lack the grounds to get protection here and then have to go back. We are really trying to separate the water from safe countries of origin where return support in itself may be a reason to come to the Netherlands. That's what we're trying to discourage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	The questions must be brief and so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	I'm gonna do my best. Several colleagues have asked questions about ending that ascension, because of the risk that then the nuisance...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u13	The Secretary of State said something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u14	He'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'm going to go into that in such detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u16	Then I'm going to suspend my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u17	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u18	In the meantime, I have also answered Mr Krol's question. Yeah, we're working on that. In recent months, this has been the case with Tunisia, Algeria and Iraq. Other countries are still on the agenda. Immediately after the summer, we are going to sub-Saharan Africa to go there with the pact in hand just to argue that one should keep one's own nationals in and that they should also be provided with papers in case they have to go back. Mr Bishop had some questions about return. Do you always leave under supervision and coercion? That is not always the case. If there's a title to take them into alien custody and work on the eviction there, we'll do it. A part disappears with unknown destination, but as I pointed out, those people don't usually show up in the Netherlands anymore. There is also a procedural aspect to which we pay very close attention. If people leave before a decision is made with an unknown destination, we will at least make that decision. This reduces the chance that if they reappear in the Netherlands after some time, a repeated application will succeed. As far as speeding up repeated applications is concerned, later this year I will come forward with measures in accordance with the government agreement, including the absence of hearing in case of unprecedented applications, which will allow us to withdraw a repeated application very quickly. Because some of the people with an unknown destination are leaving, it is not certain how many troublesome asylum seekers have since left the Netherlands. That was a question from Mr Bishop. As far as we are concerned, more opportunities are needed around return. For this reason, the Netherlands is very active in the negotiations on a new Return Directive. That proposal has even come at Dutch intercession. A year ago, we were the only Member State that said: we do have the whole GEAS, but we also need to look at the Return Directive and, for example, the possibilities for foreign detention. We've gathered some support for that. This led to a proposal from the European Commission in the autumn. Its treatment is good in itself, although it is now still due to the forthcoming European elections, and a new European Commission is to be set up. Underneath that, in the official working groups, there is considerable progress. By the way, we have made adjustments to this issue before, which is why the proposal is more in the Dutch direction than the original proposal. This should lead to more troublemakers being put into custody, precisely because there are more grounds for alien detention in the revised Return Directive, for example in the area of public policy or national security. We continue to work very hard to achieve these desired goals. We have been asked what we are doing about international cooperation and how the exchange of information between Member States is taking place. That is what I am getting into while I am talking about Europe. The problem of nuisance, which is so evident in the Netherlands, but which we know is also occurring in neighbouring countries, although it may be less manifest in public opinion, we are constantly discussing in European discussions. This increasingly leads to recognition by governments in our neighbouring countries. This is why, in the negotiations on the GEAS, we are calling for particular attention to be paid to combating secondary migration. We support all measures aimed at preventing this. You will increasingly notice in North-West Europe that the problem of secondary migration, which is also among those oppressors, is recognised if Europe's biggest problem at the moment is recognised in terms of migration. Mr Van Ojik asked about the exchange of information. For EU nationals, there is already a data exchange system: the ECRIS system. This makes it possible to request all information on convictions from the home Member State. This works particularly well for EU nationals. There are proposals in Europe to extend its scope, for example to the foreign law field. We would then have the desired European exchange at once. Of course, we'll look below before the whole system is realized. In my mind, it is on the agenda that this should be the case in 2021. We are already looking at what we can exchange more data with neighbouring countries. Especially in Belgium and Germany we find a sympathetic hearing. In the meantime, we are exploring what we can learn from each other in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u19	Can I return to the countries of origin which do not cooperate in the return: Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria? It is completely opaque how that is done. I get the impression that, for example, Morocco is the upper party here that determines to what extent it cooperates on return. The whole Chamber has said that this return should be better, but we have absolutely no idea of the negotiations. How can the Chamber get a closer look at that to help the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u20	I recall that we have discussed this in the last general consultation on the JHA Council, because it included this return cooperation prominently on the agenda. Firstly, I would like to say that we are doing this primarily with the EU, because it simply makes no sense if all the Member States are trying to reach agreements bilaterally. We have noticed this particularly in Morocco. Things are going well for a while and then at some point they don't. Then one of these Member States will be alone again. The Netherlands is not the only Member State with a bad return to Morocco. It would help if we agreed on this at European Union level as a whole. That is what the main objective is now, because there are also discussions with Morocco. I will involve the Chamber on the usual route of JHA AOs and the reports on them. If there are bilateral matters, I will, of course, at some point also give further insight into them. But I am saying this because I really do not think there is any point in always doing it alone, because then all of Europe is doing it sub-optimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u21	I agree with that in itself, but if Europe is not going to be able to do so, then the Netherlands must put its own fist on the table. I now get the impression that Morocco determines how many people return, while the Netherlands has a lot to offer. I've sometimes asked the Secretary of State to make a motion to negotiate harder. How am I gonna find out if that's going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u22	No, that's the second point. We are working within the Cabinet to further develop this return aspect among all focus countries, priority countries in the area of migration. Later in the year we also give insight into what we are doing per country. In itself, Mr Van Dijk's assumption is true: we always think that we give everything around the world and never get anything back. Morocco's not gonna let that go. For example, we do not have a development cooperation relationship with Morocco. We also have no relationship in many other areas. It's gonna be a lot harder to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u24	I've had the return business. Let me now turn to the measures we are trying to tackle this problem. Then I'll start with the new officer, the chain marine. I can imagine the critical feelings expressed by a few people in the Chamber about this, but what I had in mind was the model that began seventeen years ago in Rotterdam when dealing with neighbourhoods where the nuisance had gotten out of hand in all possible ways. That is what we had in Rotterdam at the time, and I may say 'we', because I sat there in the city council called 'the city marine'. That's someone who gets to work in a neighbourhood like this, who prefers to just have his desk in that neighborhood and walks on the street and who climbs on the phone in all kinds of situations that we all just don't want anymore, brings those involved together and doesn't accept no, but keeps calling until he has a yes, with the cooperation of everyone involved in this problem. That's what we're gonna do. It was an idea that also came from its own region, in Westerwolde and Ter Apel at that time it was still called "chain director"............................................................................................................................. Given this problem, I think it is important not to start with just a friendly caller, but actually to scale it up right away, so that we can try to really tackle the problem a lot harder. That's not the only thing. We found one of those officers. It's gonna be on May 6th, so in two and a half weeks, we're gonna get to work. He will be given the national responsibility to deal with this problem. But in the first time he starts saving his bivouac in Ter Apel to see how we can start tackling this problem with all the local players there. There he will be strengthened by two regional chain sailors, who, in the region, will eventually also continue to address this problem. The experience gained there in the coming months means that we want to further roll that out and also appoint such officials in the other COA regions in the country. So that's the point. That's gotta be someone who can get through. He also, backed up by all the organisations behind this, gets the perseverance power sometimes to tie everything together with unorthodox solutions, sometimes with solutions that could be used but not enough, and to sit on the skin of this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u25	I find it a little difficult not to laugh, because this is the most ridiculous thing I have heard so far today: the asylum chain Marine, who, when it comes to it, climbs on the phone and does not just let him say no to himself. Well, well, they'll be impressed. Is this really the best thing the Secretary of State's gonna come up with to get scum off the street and turn it off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yeah, you can be funny about it, but I've seen in practice what results such a staff member who goes on the road constantly can lead to. I don't blame anyone for that either. When it started in Rotterdam seventeen years ago, I noticed the same atmosphere of "we have to see that again." But in the end, it turned out to be the solution. Anyone who comes into the neighbourhoods today where these people started to work won't recognize those neighbourhoods after 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u27	Sorry, if it weren't for crying, I'd laugh. We can hardly get a bigger license of inability. They're terrorizing the street. In public transport people are attacked, spit on and smashed together. And here we get a proposal for an asylum chain Marine? Sorry, I really can't get over it. This really is a lack of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u28	On the contrary. It is someone who can combine all the other measures we are working on in a good way. For example, we are not taking a measure here and a measure there, but we are ensuring that this group is in full width and that the burdensome behaviour is countered in all possible ways. One of the first tasks is to achieve a top x approach, as it says in the letter. We know the examples from other cities, for example the Top 600 approach from Amsterdam. For example, we want to ensure that this group of people is in the picture and that all possible information from all chain partners about these people gets together. That means that we can follow this group across the board and that all the nasty facts, nuisances and criminal offences in their files find their place. It helps to get people out of the country as soon as possible. A few months ago I got the question from the Chamber: see if there could be a better registration system and whether the data of the COA and the police could be better linked and at a personal level. I said back then that we are already doing a lot of things in that area. With this top X approach, this multi-stakeholder approach, we're going to put a little extra effort into it. In this way, we can better share the information of the COA and the police and better monitor the nuisances. With this we can improve the effectiveness of the approach of nuisances. Mr Voordewind then asked whether the penalty for harassing asylum seekers could be increased or whether it could be used as a penalty. The answer to this is that criminal law applies in the Netherlands to everyone who is on Dutch soil. Of course, all facts and circumstances, such as the person's behaviour, the circumstances of the crime, one's age and one's history, are always taken into account when determining the possibilities for prosecution and punishment. Only the background, nationality or ethnicity of the perpetrator does not matter. I do not think that being a single asylum seeker can be a penalty aggravating circumstance. Recidive, repeated criminal acts, of course, can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u29	We've seen this before, haven't we? If people have an exemplary role in society, so does the judge. He weighs what impact it can have on society. If people ask for our hospitality and commit crimes of this kind, then it could also be a clear signal from the judge, or in this case from the legislator if the legislator decides to do so, if it is said: "You are a guest here, so you must abide by the rules. If you do not do so, you can count on an extra punishment."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u30	But that is included in the tightening of the sliding scale, which does exactly that. In the end, it is also about withdrawing the asylum permit on the basis of the sliding scale and, of course, working safely for public employees. I think that will apply here too. But the relevant bill is, I believe, still pending.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u31	Yeah, but that's about criminally aggravating circumstances that apply to a crime against civil servants, police officers, paramedics, and so on. For that we also go to a penalty increase. In line with that one could say that if asylum seekers commit crimes, they may not be against civil servants, but perhaps against Dutch citizens, there may be an additional argument before the courts to say: yes, but that is not how you ended up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u32	To some extent I understand this feeling of Mr Voordewind, but I have just explained what the basic principles of Dutch criminal law are. They're just about the crime itself and everything that's going on there. But that makes the mere fact that someone is an asylum seeker, not in advance already an aggravating circumstance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u33	I see you doubting, Mr. Voordewind. You may clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u34	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am curious to see how asylum seekers will be affected by these other legislative proposals. For if a crime is committed against a keeper in an azc or an ebtl, then that law and the aggravating circumstance would also apply to an asylum seeker, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u35	We all have to take that further in the legal process. For me, assaulting someone who works in the public domain, for example at the azc, is similar to assaulting an ambulance worker, a police officer and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u36	I think the Secretary of State says that because of his status as an asylum seeker, you cannot treat a person criminally other than the other citizens who are receptive to criminal law. Do I understand the Secretary of State? That's what he says. Then he's gotta take a look at legal practice. We have more nuisance groups here. I call the Roma. They come here with families. In all relevant criminal sentences, you will see that the judge takes into account the fact that the person concerned comes from a Roma family when measuring the penalty. With this punishment, he wants to send a signal to the country of origin, Albania, that it is better not to go this way with these intentions. Perhaps the Secretary of State may, in an opinion, advise the Public Prosecutor to apply that circumstance here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u37	I can also see a difference, because often the underlying behavior, Mr Hiddema calls it 'hopping around'; everywhere robbing is taken into account in terms of punishment. Apart from that, we already have something, and that's the sliding scale. I have just explained this to Mr Voordewind. This is a scale which states the extent to which this will have an impact on whether or not to obtain or withdraw an asylum permit. So the moment you're here as an asylum seeker, there's already a sanction on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u38	I understand that, but this sliding scale applies to additional measures, but does not touch the core and the level of punishment. The example I give you is the level of punishment. You should do the same here, because that sliding scale will also play more. As the punishment increases, the sliding scale also works more viciously. But you have to start somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u39	I agree with the latter. Of course, also for the sliding scale... That's the problem. In the conduct we are discussing today, we are talking about extremely annoying and oppressive behaviour: intimidating, a shoplifting here, an offence there. But we're not talking about criminal offences that come close to a custody that qualifys for the gliding scale. I therefore agree with Mr Hiddema on his own that you should look closely at this group and whether the penalty level is adequate, but I believe that criminal law is sufficient to do so, namely by taking into account all the circumstances of a criminal offence. But I don't think it's the solution for the group we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u40	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u41	I think so, but I'm not allowed to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yes, I do. Isn't that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u43	What do I think of this? I do not agree with the Secretary of State at all. It is exactly like the Roma families, who come here with one purpose: to clean up shops. This also applies to a lot of hopeless asylum seekers, who only come and stay here in the hope of gaining an advantage there. The judge may take those circumstances, i.e. their personal capacity as asylum seeker or Roma member, with regard to the level of the sentence. I think that the sliding scale is therefore better worked out, to say the least, more long-term, and someone is more likely to be eligible for an expansion route. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u44	Not if the conditions for the sliding scale are met, but then the core of the question is whether the Code of Criminal Law should be strengthened for this group. I believe that we have not yet reached this stage and that there are opportunities to adequately punish the offences committed by these people in criminal terms. It is much more important that I should like to return to this point in my speech in order to see whether, in all cases of declaration etc., it is possible to investigate and prosecute. Mr Voordewind asked me: 'This is the crux of this question 'whether the Code of Criminal Law should be tightened up for this group. I don't think we need to go that far already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u45	Finally, Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u46	You don't have to. There is also no separate legislation for Roma families. But they will receive an extra portion of punishment for the intentions with which they have ended up here and for the radiating effect of the verdict in Albania. That's just in the verdicts, you know. That's what the judge has the freedom to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u47	I do not dispute that either, but the heart of the debate was on whether the Code of Criminal Law should be tightened. I do not think that this is necessary and that we can take a lot of measures. Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u48	Yeah, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u49	It's nice to see that, too. I suggest the Secretary of State proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u50	I have one more question. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u51	You may ask a final question very briefly, and then it is indeed done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u52	It's not hobbyism or lust that I come back to the Marine, but that's what I like about it. The Marine's job is to get an inventory of criminal asylum seekers. Hasn't that ever worked out so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u53	No, of course we have a picture of that. I am concerned that the information that all chain partners have is actively exchanged, and that everyone is therefore involved not only within the asylum chain and not only IND, COA and DT&V, but also, for example, public transport companies, on which I will be joining the public prosecutor, the police and everyone else involved in what we all know, so that we do not let go of this group in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u54	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr. Hiddema, I'd like to suggest that the Secretary of State continues and that at the end you might still ask a question if it hasn't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u56	I would also like to take up what I said at the beginning: a great many measures are possible and have been used, but in view of the persistent and burdensome behaviour of this group, we must step up our efforts to ensure that all possible measures are followed up in conjunction. One of the other tasks in this regard, Mr Bishop asked for it, is to give high priority to police and prosecutors from and around azc's. I will begin by stating that the prosecution is independent in its prosecution policy. However, there are, of course, discussions at all levels, including with local prosecutors and also at administrative level, to see how cooperation can be improved in dealing with nuisances and how we can apply swift law more often. Moreover, it only makes sense when a case lends itself to it, so that it does not raise any more questions and is clear what has happened. Dan's gonna make a lot of sense. But it is also important to point out that, unfortunately, there are not always criminal offences, despite the heavy nuisance that is being caused. Where this is the case, it is indeed the intention to allow the chains to operate more closely. Mr Bishop asked how many troublesome asylum seekers have since been persecuted and sentenced. You will soon receive this information, because we are now working on the reporting Stranger chain that always appears around April/May. These reports also contain these figures, not only on the number of incidents in the COA locations but also on the number of convictions. A subject on which many in the Chamber had a question or a comment is the denial of reception. This is also one of the measures that we want to tighten up in the mix of measures. I hear different sounds from the Chamber about this. One says: isn't that really stupid, because then they come out on the street and then we have even more trouble. The other says, "Maybe we should just give it a try." Of course I hear the same sounds in the country. I also know that there are mayors who say, "Don't do that, don't put them out on the street." At the same time, we also know something else, namely that at the moment people with unknown destinations leave an azc, including the group of oppressors. We see them relatively little in the Netherlands. So that already assumes that if you actively turn to denying the shelter, you may have little or no more trouble in the Netherlands and that the message has actually arrived. With someone who thought he could live in an azc for a while with a nice bed and without hassle and in the meantime could go his way with all kinds of things that we don't appreciate very much, that message arrived. Do you just have to put that in the wild? No, of course not. Once again, there is the measure of denying reception, which is also being imposed on asylum seekers outside this group that we are talking about today. If we do that, we must also have the information around it. Then the local triangle must also know that such a measure has been imposed. We must therefore continue to monitor the way things are going in practice. If it leads to more nuisance, we should also be aware of it and perhaps we should rethink it. If we then have the people out of sight and lost the feeling that they are no longer in the Netherlands and we have ended the procedure in the meantime so that a repeated application no longer makes sense, we may achieve something in reducing the nuisance. That is the reason why we should also apply this measure of denying reception a little more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u57	Have you completed all the questions relating to this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u59	It worries me, because you hear that it has a sucking effect with those squatters in the Netherlands, in the sense that people who have come out of the shelter simply join them. How do we make sure that once someone who's been kicked out of the shelter and commits a crime, we can catch that person by the scraps and something is going to happen to it in a closed facility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u60	Imagine if that person stays in the Netherlands and runs into something there because of behavior that we don't want. Then at the push of a button, it's clear who you're dealing with. There are records of such a person. It is therefore well known that he has been denied shelter, which is another aggravating ground for foreign detention, for example, because someone has to leave the real country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u61	We'd like to, but if there's no indication that he's leaving the country, we'll all be watching it and we won't solve anything. So what are we gonna do with someone who's been kicked out of the shelter, committing a crime and can't be deported?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u62	It is just a matter of drawing attention to the fact that if someone has been denied shelter, it is a measure that is simply known. That person is therefore no longer entitled to a shelter. That person then runs into the lamp. That is probably because we find him in the supervision, where it is clear that he has no status in the Netherlands and therefore has to leave the country. Well, at least you can start with a time of foreign detention. As long as the judge approves, you'll have to keep working on the eviction. Where, for example, there is a combination with a criminal offence, you have an extra ground to allow the foreign detention to last longer. Is it then a reason that someone can get into the lvv, for example? No, because we also know exactly who's in the lvv. We have the registration numbers and the v-numbers of them. It's not grounds for admission into an IVV. So at some point you are out of your options to stay here in the Netherlands for a while and have a roof over your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u63	So you're gonna go to Amsterdam and you're gonna crack a building.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u64	I think they're going to another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u65	But my question is: is this the group that the Return Directive aims to secure for longer? Is that the only solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u66	This is one of the groups for which we will have more opportunities if the amended Return Directive is in place, because then the public order aspect will also count more heavily, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u67	I think that the Secretary of State is right to say a bit of nuance about his letter and says: if we put people on the streets, we will of course take a good look at it and do it in consultation with the local partners. That is reassuring in itself, but I will continue to share Mrs Van Toorenburg's concerns. My question is this. He says: you'd expect, if you don't see people back in surveillance, that they've actually left the country. But is that true? 'Cause what are the odds of you showing up in that surveillance? Or even if you commit crimes or cause nuisance, that you're even gonna get caught? Isn't it true that there's a good chance that people will just stay under the radar of the authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u68	There is this opportunity, but if I look at the behaviour we are seeing now, we can also see that this is particularly happening in the surroundings, in the municipality, in the neighbourhoods, in the shopping centres, around azc's. The moment people disappear there, of course, there is a chance of going somewhere else in the country. Only, at some point, if you really think: I want a time ahead in Europe again, then there is very little more reason to do so in the Netherlands. In fact, if you are found in the Netherlands, you will be more likely to end up in foreign detention or, in the case of Dublin claims, that Dublin claim will still be executed. So there is also, rationally speaking, not so much reason for people to stay in the Netherlands. But is the chance that they won't stay somewhere in the Netherlands? No, of course not. But I think you can help combat the nuisance we're talking about today, especially in that area, in those municipalities, in those places with an azc.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u69	Some of these people, I don't always think, act rationally. This is also evident from the report of the inspection. But can I understand the Secretary of State in such a way that he says: I am going to keep an eye on that and when we find that we often refuse to take care of people but at the same time have the idea that it is a waterbed effect and people appear elsewhere, then I am going to reconsider that measure? Do I understand it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u70	At least that's the portee of what's in the letter: we're going to do that of course, we're going to report that to all the partners involved and it's customization. But of course we look very closely at who we have in front of us and what is the best way. Denying the shelter is not the measure you start with either. We have a whole palette of sanctions; this is the last measure. But I think that in recent years it has been applied with more caution than we intend to do in the coming years, precisely because of the persistent behaviour of this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u72	Then Mrs Becker asked about the possibility of directing criminal asylum seekers from detention to the detention of aliens. The starting point is even that criminal asylum seekers return immediately following the detention. If this is not feasible, then the next foreign detention will always be used to realize the return. There are, of course, conditions for foreign detention, but the withdrawal risk can usually be demonstrated in these cases. We also have a whole protocol to ensure chain-wide cooperation on these matters. Mr. Jasper van Dijk asked whether more could be done to detect perpetrators of nuisance in shopping malls, a problem that we see not only in Ter Apel but also in a number of other places in the country, for example Kampen and Dronten. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the police do give priority to the investigation and prosecution of this. It's not like the D.A.'s office never pursues shoplifting. If a report is made, prosecution will take place wherever possible and the appropriate punishment will be examined. Although I realize that it is always a tax for entrepreneurs to report, it helps to make that report, if only because that way you help fill up the file of someone like that again. And that might help in the end to keep people longer in foreign detention. I have noticed that there is not enough knowledge of the possibilities of coordinating the asylum application or the readmission into detention, while there are also very good initiatives in other regions, such as the pilot community service and the possibility of applying rapid law. One of the tasks of such a chain marine is to carry out all these good examples much better. In the quick reference card we have worked ourselves to ensure that municipal authorities are helped equally in the event of nuisance: "You can still do all this. Check with your local triangle whether you actually do and whether you need to organize something for that." This way we can strengthen that one more tooth. This also contributes to the multi-stakeholder approach, that top x approach, and that helps to fill the databases. Finally, in this block a few other measures mentioned by several members of the Chamber. Mrs Becker asked about the possibilities of fast-track law and lick-on-piece policy, for example in the case of old and new. Several initiatives have been taken across the country to address nuisances, including the use of quick-track law in a number of places. Yes, the Council is also cooperating in this for the sake of justice, with the provision that, of course, it is important that the matter is hard enough to actually apply rapid law. Street harassment is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u73	Do you have any interruptions at the previous point, Mr. Groothuizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u74	On a previous point, Mr President. The Secretary of State went into the city Marine for a while. I asked him about the perseverance in the first term. When I hear the Secretary of State's explanation, I get the impression that it is mainly someone who brings parties together and points to possibilities. I find that all very useful, but I think that is something else than someone who says: I see that there is a problem and now I am the one who decides whether it goes left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u75	I've noticed, also in the local context, that on paper you can provide someone with perseverance power. We're going to arrange that neatly, of course, but it's also in the posture and whether you're putting someone there who really pushes through and pushes through. If you look at what the powers will be, then all that has to do with public order is to the mayor. For all other connections to the chain partners there will be an commissioned chain partner. But that's the paper side of the story. The reality must soon be that it is someone who, even three o'clock in the morning, calls everyone out of his bed that he needs to solve the problem that arises. This has worked in the local context in the municipalities I know best, in Rotterdam but also in other municipalities. That is actually the approach we are pursuing and for which, at least as far as I am concerned, someone like that is given all the space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u76	But then there is not someone with perseverance in the sense that the mayor remains responsible for public order and the prosecutor for criminal enforcement. It's someone who's active and on top of it. All that is fine with me, but the power of perseverance is not there at all at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u77	Yes, we are, because that's what we're gonna make agreements about. That will be further developed in the coming weeks. I have just outlined my intention: someone who can really, really go through with it. I would very much like to give such a person all the room for this, of course within the framework of legislation and regulation, but all the space must be sought within it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u78	It remains a little foggy, because I do not think you can go beyond the framework of the Municipal Law or the Criminal Law on paper. I fear that we will not get out of this now, so I would ask the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber of what exactly the perseverance force looks like. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u79	I would like to say two things about that. Of course, I will keep the Chamber informed. Secondly, let me just mention an example that was mentioned in the first term and that was also mentioned in my letter yesterday: the arresters from Ter Apel, who had to be brought back and forth to Groningen by police officers all the time. That idea's pretty old. We've done that now. In my conversations with employees and municipalities I get a few of those ideas every time. I am concerned that there is someone who will ensure that such ideas are taken up much more quickly in the future and that they are also dealt with in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u80	I think this still fits into the block that's on the table. The Secretary of State shows great affinity with Rotterdam, by going through and with practical measures. Let's see what's going on with that. I had one more question open. How many prosecutions have been brought in response to the riots in Detentecentrum Rotterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u81	Yeah, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u82	Will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u83	He's gonna be in the pile by himself. I don't see him lying around so fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u84	"Stapel," that sounds very disrespectful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u85	Oh, that's okay. As long as it gets there, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u86	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u87	That question is still being addressed. I think it's one of the next blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u88	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the ISD measure. There are differences with the group we are talking about and there are similarities. These similarities lie in the atmosphere of: it's all annoying behavior and always just not to be addressed. There are also differences, because the current isd measures are aimed at rehabilitation and rehabilitation. I don't think we had that in mind, because it's a group that we think should leave the country. So it's not obvious to take over. But Mrs Van Toorenburg herself said in her contribution: let us be inspired by it and perhaps not take it one-on-one. This is one of the reasons why you can't take over one-on-one. The current criteria for such an isd measure often do not apply to the group either, because it has to deal with some heavier facts and several irrevocable convictions. Like I said at the beginning, that group isn't constant. We want to get that group out of the country as soon as possible. Nevertheless, in that respect, I think it is a very good inspiration that it is a good idea to agree that isd approach alongside this group and all the elements that we can take with us, especially in the personal approach, the top so much approach, and the imposition of sanctions on the COA. I think it is a good idea to just put that aside and see what we can take over without saying right away: we are taking over this whole isd approach. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u90	We're also looking at criminal families and a youth group with the isd measure. So it's really good to get inspired by this group. But can I take it a little wider? It should be people who are asylum seekers, as long as they are asylum seekers, so it could be that group that has been around for a long time, but perhaps it could also be people who have just been rejected. So we are talking about the broad analysis: what could we learn from the special approach of the other troublemakers? 'Cause maybe we can think of something smart to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u91	In that respect, I think we are totally in agreement. I had stayed on the subject of street harassment. Mrs Becker has asked whether it is possible to introduce a local ban on street harassment. The examples we have of tackling street harassment in the country are a competence of the local authority, of the municipalities, of the General Local Regulation. This was also mentioned in the first period. I can make the suggestion, but it is ultimately up to the mayors and the municipal authorities to shape the public order policy. Then there's a restraining order and a territorial order. Both concepts came along. Unfortunately, we cannot impose an area bid limited to the reception site itself. If a foreigner is not allowed to leave the premises by default, then that can be explained. We also know that it is interpreted as a form of deprivation of liberty, a form of detention. If the nuisance is such that there are enough grounds to impose an area bid, then I know one thing for sure: then there is also enough ground to transfer someone to the ebtl. And then we do, because then the location itself will be relieved. The stranger is then placed in the ebtl under a stricter regime and, among other things, under supervision. For troublemakers who do not belong to the target group of an ebtl, for example, safelanders, because we want to keep them in that very fast procedure, there are legal possibilities to impose an area bid around an azc already. But it can't be limited to the azc itself. We still have to make a small area around it possible. We do take into consideration the fact that we often impose a territorial order for a limited area within such a municipality. That is what we are going to be involved in developing this plan for a separate shelter for people from a safe country of origin in the coming weeks. As I said, we are not only inspired by land bans, but also by other measures that we have taken in the sphere of the ebtl.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u92	I see you're done with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u93	I am very pleased with the latter, because, indeed, we now have the aso-azc and the more stringent regime in Hoogeveen, but there are also those who will never end up in it, because of the short procedure, and they should also be allowed not to cause any nuisance in neighbouring municipalities. Do I now understand correctly from the Secretary of State that he also engages with the mayors of municipalities with regular azc's? So it is also about the mayor of Weert, who is concerned about the effort he takes to make a ban possible. In fact, I believe he was flogged back by the D.A.'s office. We need to stand next to these mayors and do everything we can to impose such a command, so that when someone breaks it there is a crime and he can be imprisoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u94	That's a lot of questions in one interruption. I think I agree with Mrs Becker on the ground. Weert's case was different in that the problem had to be motivated individually. In a New Year's Eve you can do something for a group for that short, specific situation. In other cases, that didn't work out. I'm very willing to see what else is possible. That is also the port of conversations I have with mayors in the country. Finally, in this block, the ankle bracelets, a proposal from Mr Krol. In itself I'm always willing to think about other technical possibilities, but with ankle straps it's good to realize that for safety reasons it's always possible to get that ankle bracelet off, otherwise someone could be restrained and crashed. For this reason, an anklet is particularly effective in routes in which it is now used, i.e. routes in which reintegration is being carried out, such as after the end of a sentence. If the real risk is that of a withdrawal from the government, for example to avoid a Dublin claim or go ahead, then an anklet is probably less effective. So I would not like to see it as an alternative to detention. I would like to consider it only as support for monitoring, for example, to see if anyone has complied with their terms of reference. Something comes up. Before an anklet can be applied, a legal basis must be created for it. So it's not gonna be settled tomorrow, so I'm just saying. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the ebtl. I refer to the questions that have been asked about the equipment of the COA staff. Mr Van Ojik asked whether we had underestimated the problem with the ebtl and whether enforcement was insufficient. When the ebtl was launched two and a half years ago, asylum seekers always started to cause nuisance at a location. Reality commands that the type of nuisance two, three years ago, was nuisance that could affect you with behavioral change and a program that is aimed at that. Think of harassing women, not keeping to values and standards we are used to here in the Netherlands, discrimination, intimidation... Here too, in recent years, the nature of the asylum influx has changed dramatically. We now also have larger numbers of asylum seekers from safe countries, who have no prospect of staying in the Netherlands and who have often applied for asylum in vain in other EU countries. That's what the inspection points out in the report. There is therefore a mismatch between a part of the population in the ebtl and the offered program. When the concept of the ebtl was conceived, a population with these characteristics was not foreseen. That was just less going on at the time. Hence the changes we are going to make at the location in Hoogeveen. In an ebtl we have the letters b of guidance and t of supervision, but we now push the b somewhat to the background and strengthen the t of supervision. For this group, that is the measure. Of course, this includes the extra commitment to supervision and enforcement, for example with the boas. I shall go straight ahead with the boas, because I say it from my mind to Mr Groothuizen. He said, "Why are we throwing in boas?" I don't know who it was anymore, but they also asked if it would be a replacement for the police. Are we short on police? We think we can do it with the extra use of boas, which are then controlled by the police. In that sense, they are different and better equipped than the current employees of COA and DJI. In combination, they should be able to strengthen enforcement and monitoring. In doing so, they offer everyone, including the employees who are already there, a pity, because they are no longer alone when they can also appeal to those boas. We don't have the impression that we should go so far as to say: we need police officers as well. We think that we should be able to do it with the equipment that boas have, but we also, of course, keep a close eye on that. Mr Groothuizen also asked whether there are not only people with HBO levels working in the ebtl and how we deal with them. Most of the COA functions in the ebtl are functions at HBO level, but there are also functions at MBO level. There are therefore also employees working with an MBO programme. The DJI staff, working on the ebtl's, is also trained MBO. In addition, part of the COA staff on the ebtl has a fixed contract, but given that it is still a pilot at the moment, part of the staff is temporary. Mrs. Kuik asked about the quality of the employees of the azc's. How do we secure it? It starts with the application procedure for the new employees, where not only strict diploma requirements apply, but where it also explicitly discusses the potentially negative situations that may occur at the locations. That is also part of the job interview and its preparation. Staff take up compulsory training, not only BHV et cetera, but also basic trainings dealing with emotion and aggression and de-escalation training. All these training sessions are repeated annually and followed in addition by floor training. This is done both by individual employees and by teams.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u95	The Secretary of State's a little anxious. The question was about establishing the inspection that no HBOs could be recruited for a number of functions with an HBO profile. The inspection says that's because there wasn't enough supply from those people. My question to the Secretary of State was: is that because we do not have enough to offer these people? Are the working conditions not such that people think: well, this rather heavy job does appeal to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u96	Sorry, I misunderstood the question. Before I come up with something here, I'd rather park it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u97	A few years ago, the ebtls were set up and now the question is whether we should have done things differently back then. If I understand him correctly, the Secretary of State says that the composition of the group has really changed. A larger proportion of these people come from, say, safe countries. I noticed that the inspection in her report says that most of the people involved are people with mental or addiction problems. That is what they do. I am curious to see how the Secretary of State will respond to this, but I would imagine that in view of that finding, you might have to consider different models of solutions than those we are all discussing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u98	There are two aspects: addiction and psychological problems. As far as addiction is concerned, alcohol and drugs are also the subject of a request from other Members of Parliament, which are governed by house rules. Moreover, this could be a reason for further sanctions. Because of the problem of psychiatric problems, that is the core, as the inspection also says. We give follow-up to the inspection report by releasing more places in Veldzicht. We already check before, already before the ebtl but also when people with these problems come into the ebtl, whether Veldzicht is not a better place because the ebtl cannot offer a solace for that. We'll give you follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u99	What struck me in the inspection report was the term "most of the group." So it's not a relatively small group in that larger whole. At least according to the inspection report, most of the people in that group have mental or addiction problems. That's quite an important observation, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u100	That's right. For that reason, I would like to start by mentioning that split in those two groups. For psychiatric problems, we have Field View. For alcohol and drugs, the COA has good contacts with addiction care. The residents also point out that, but participation in these programmes is voluntary, as is the case elsewhere in society. Then you come back to the characteristics of this group. Apart from the fact that they are not open to the influence of behavior when it comes to oppressive behaviour, they often do not recognise that they have a problem and therefore do not participate in addiction care. The staff, of course, always provide information about the dangers. Then comes the other part, of enforcement. There's no alcohol and no drugs allowed at the locations. Room checks are carried out on this. When entering the ebtl, bags and bags can be checked, which are seized if they contain alcohol or drugs. In the event of suspicion of criminal offences, the police will then be called in, who may search the premises if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u101	I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u102	I think I'm through pretty well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u103	What's "reasonably through"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u104	There are still a few questions about Detention Centre Rotterdam, public transport and remaining questions
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u105	I would start with that as soon as possible, because there is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u106	Yes, that is what I am going to do with Mr Hiddema's question about reporting the incidents in Detentecentrum Rotterdam. Following these incidents, 30 cases were reported for destruction, verbal and physical aggression and related cases. One case, which was a death threat to the head of the detention centre, has now been dealt with by rapid law. In that case, a four-week custodial sentence has been imposed. I would point out, moreover, that contacts between the detention centre and the prosecutor on the handling of all such declarations are going well and swiftly. I've already talked about the reception of track 2. Then I come to the questions about public transport. First of all, I have already said this publicly. I understand everyone who says 'this is the world upside down'. I have that feeling myself; that also shoots me in the head all the time. At the same time, there are two other things going on. I heard several members of the Chamber say that this morning. If this nuisance occurs in your area, in the bus with which you have to go to school every day or go shopping for a day, then I think it is good to look at the rest of the passengers and see how we can give them back some comfort in that public transport. It's not a race yet how we're all gonna do that. In December, I agreed with the public transport region that at least for a period of at least six months we are going to look at stewards on the bus. They are used to help guard order on the bus and around public transport. But in conversations, with the region and also with bus drivers, the idea comes on the table regularly: "Shouldn't we do more? Can we not see if there is also separate transport possible, so that we get some rest back on the bus?" I'm not saying it's a solution forever, on the contrary. I have offered the North to try this idea, which comes up every time and which is said "we don't know if it works, because we never tried" for three months. That's what's going to be done in the next few months. We still have to agree on all aspects of this. More than the sentence I just said, it has not yet been agreed. We are in the process of making agreements on how this is to be worked out. And no, if you have to pay for the rest of the public transport, I don't think it's obvious that this is free, for example. People get a fee, so they can also pay for this bus. But I think it's gonna help if we go see how we can get the peace back. At the beginning of May, the chain sailor will be working to see how to link up all the measures, including in many other areas. In the meantime, I think it is important to look at how we can get some more peace back in that area. That area is also exceptional. Of course there are more bus lines in the Netherlands, but this is the bus line in which every asylum seeker enters at least twice, namely if he has to go to and from Ter Apel, because everyone has to report to Ter Apel. That is why I saw that the problem here is extremely serious and that we need to look at how we can get it under control. Apart from that, the other aspect plays: the stewards on the bus. Of course, that is not the only thing that needs to be done, because it is mainly about what you do when you find abuses. The point is that we will quickly arrange the follow-up, with the police and the public prosecutor behind it, for example by means of an O.V. ban if that is or can be the case. We are now busy, with the stewards on the bus and later on a temporary closed bus, to see what works and whether this should or not find a place in definitive measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u107	I'm going to see how far you are, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u108	These are my considerations in bus transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u109	The block of bus transport. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u110	That was a prominent block in the first term. You commit aggression, violence and intimidation on a bus. And what's the penalty? A separate bus for the troublemakers. No one understands that anymore. That's the world upside down. Has the Secretary of State considered other options before he arrived on a separate bus for troublemakers? For example, did he consider saying, "Dear friend, if you're wrecking the place, then you're not taking the bus anymore, you're just staying home? Has that option been considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u111	That would also be my first reaction. I have just said that I may agree with all the criticism, but it does not help, because then we still have the nuisance there. Staying home in this case is... You talk about people who are in the Netherlands and who say: I want asylum. You do that somewhere in the Netherlands at a police station and the police say: fine, then you have to go to Ter Apel. I wasn't gonna put these people in a cab, 'cause that's what I'd really find the world upside down. They have to go to Ter Apel and they'll be on a bus. That's line 73 now, between Emmen and Ter Apel. I can't do that any other way. They have to go there and we need a way to get them there. I'm not saying this is delicious. I'll just say that we have to give it a chance, even to get the peace back there and see what does and doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u112	I had the impression that it was also a recurring group of boys who went from Ter Apel to Emmen weekly. Those aren't people who have to go there. Those are people who, so to speak, go out on a weekend. Then there is the rumor that bus transport might be free. Can the Secretary of State promise that it won't at least happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u113	I just said that. There are a lot of rumors, but nothing else has worked out but that we are going to look at private transport in a three-month pilot. Something else is not yet known. So I can refer that straight to the rumor country. I have just said that free of course is not obvious, because that is what I find the world upside down. People get living money, so they have to pay for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u114	The good listener hears: it is not obvious. So you keep the possibility open that it will be free of charge. Is it gonna be paid for transportation or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u115	I'm not betting on free transportation; period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u116	But it would be nicer if the Secretary of State would say: it will not be free transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u117	But I just said that: no free transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u118	"I'm not betting on it." That seems...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u119	No free transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u120	Well, at least we've got that inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u121	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u122	And then you say, "They have to go to Ter Apel." But why do they have to go to Ter Apel? If you're just gonna wreck that bus, you don't have to go to Ter Apel, do you? Then you say: you stay home!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u123	Yeah, I'd rather not have them in the Netherlands at all. But that's where the asylum procedure begins. We need to take it off as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u124	I referred in my speech to the possibility of prohibiting public transport, which has also been discussed in cities such as Rotterdam and Amsterdam for wheeldrivers that make the metro and tram unsafe over and over again. Can't you do the same for this group? As far as the VVD is concerned, that would be a better alternative than indeed that feeling of reward with a separate bus. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u125	Oh, yeah. There is that possibility. All transport companies can include that in their rules. In fact, in Ter Apel, something resembling that ban is already happening. The troublemakers are already refused on the bus, especially if they don't have a valid ticket. In fact, the commitment of stewards is also aimed at allowing this to take place outside the bus. They're already stopping people at the stop so they don't get on the bus. In fact, such an access ban is already in place and is therefore part of the mix of resources that can be used against this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u126	But now I understand that these are stewards who can decide on the basis of the behavior of someone on the spot: you're acting so badly right now; you're not getting on the bus. But I'm dealing with people who, over and over again, stifle things on the bus. They should be banned for a certain period of time for public transport. If they do get back on that bus, we can catch them. As a result, we can also accumulate the number of crimes, which ultimately means that we can put these people into detention. 'Cause that's what we want to do with each other. That is another approach to a ban on public transport. I'd like to challenge the Secretary of State to explore it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u127	Oh, yeah. I am also in favour of this, but I would add that it is ultimately up to the public transport companies to impose such a ban. For all kinds of reasons, they have chosen to do so so so far, I think they are right to say: we prefer to take care of it outside the bus. Otherwise you are again working on a situation on the bus, which also gives the bus driver an extra job to maintain it. But I'm not against it. When Mrs Becker says "take that, explore it and see what the possibilities are": yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u128	I still don't get it. I was on that bus too because I had to go there. So I got on that same bus. That bus also had a girl with a lot of bags, crying and miserable. That girl had to tow endlessly to Ter Apel. Is that the same kid we're gonna put in some kind of nuisance bus? 'Cause I don't have to think about that either. Of course there are also just people in that center who are very neat and who try to find a safe place here. We're not gonna put them on that bus, too, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u129	This is precisely one of all the questions that we are currently working on in this private transport, so I do not have an answer to them yet. That is exactly what we are doing with the public transport companies. But I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg's feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u130	I can live very well with a system in which people go on their own buses, and preferably to a closed place, but not with a system in which vulnerable people are put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u131	It makes you philosophic. I know that you can only deal with this miserable person with practical measures. Now the Secretary of State comes up with a practical measure: a bus. But... Oh, scare! I've heard it's going to be a closed bus. You should never do that. The hell breaks out on that bus. There's no driver to get. Don't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u132	No, then I'm misunderstood. I was talking about private transport, because it is a form that we know elsewhere in the Netherlands, as opposed to public transport. But it's just gonna be a bus. We're working on the effect now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u133	Oh, thank God. I thought you were gonna tape the windows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u134	No, I'm not. No, no, no, no, no, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u135	I find it really bizarre to note that we are only working here on all kinds of bureaucratic measures, from the asylum marine to a free or paid bus line, which is, of course, still financed by the Dutch taxpayer. So we're constantly busy... At least, the Secretary of State is constantly fighting symptoms. My question is when is the Secretary of State going to tackle the problem at the root and turn the scum out of the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u136	Wherever we can, we turn people off. I can well imagine Mr Emiel van Dijk's question, but it is also my job to point out the limitations that we have in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u137	When are these restrictions gonna weigh down for once? I am referring to all the excuses you use, such as Brussels, Dublin and you name it. When are they going to weigh less heavily than the safety and the pleasure of living of the residents and anyone who is affected by the nuisance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u138	It is precisely in order to tackle this nuisance that I am now working not only with neighbouring countries but also with regard to what needs to be done to strengthen those rules in Europe. The problem is not only in the Netherlands and we are getting more and more supporters to tighten up the necessary rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u139	I'd like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u140	Yes, I have a few final questions to answer. Mr. Jasper van Dijk referred to the police occupation in Ter Apel. The short answer is that it is ultimately up to the mayor of the region to agree on the distribution of police capacity, including where police stations are. What we have done, at least, is what I have said; for the sake of clarity, I am referring to the letter 'Just taking the practical measure' to ensure that we can raise the actual number of hours that police officers can be on the streets in Ter Apel. That seems to me to be the most important thing. In addition, we have a regional decision in the Ter Apel area, which was planned in such a way that there are now overlapping services at the times when most shoplifting took place, so that there are double units available to counter those shoplifting. Mr Voordewind asked whether the Algerian asylum seeker who died should not have been taken in. That was someone who refused any medical treatment or voluntary admission. There was also insufficient reason for forced admission, because that assessment is not for the COA but for the doctor or institution on duty. That judgment is ultimately leading. Finally, Mr Krol asked two questions. One is whether it should be possible to apply for asylum at the Dutch embassy in safe countries of origin. It's actually two-and-a-half here. You can think of an asylum system in which asylum can no longer be applied for in Europe and must, by definition, be applied for outside Europe, but as long as the reality is that, even once you are in Europe or in the Netherlands, you have the right to apply for asylum, which is, as explained above, part of international obligations. Finally, Mr Krol asked about Libya: doesn't the Netherlands have a very special position there to keep the current warring parties apart? In all honesty, I don't think we have that position there. Of course it's terrible what's happening there again. The whole conflict in Libya seems to me to be something you will have to discuss with the Foreign Minister. Specifically about the 800,000 migrants in Libya, the situation does not indicate that this group is going to cross massively to Europe. We must also bear in mind that this is a group. We do not know whether there are 800,000 or less people who have often been working in Libya for a long time, usually as illegal migrants. They probably do not qualify for asylum status in Europe by far. In that sense, I see the problem a little less serious. They'll probably never get an asylum procedure in Europe. At present, there is nothing to indicate that the crossing is being massively risked, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u141	Just to reassure the Secretary of State: I will certainly ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But Libya's ambassador assured us this week that the Netherlands could play a unique role, precisely because all warring parties have full confidence in the Netherlands. This applies to few other European countries. So for that reason, it would be very wise to look at it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u142	But that really brings me to the field of foreign policy and thus to something to which the Foreign Minister must respond. Mr President, I think I have dealt with all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u143	Maybe it's me, but I missed a question about the aso-azc's. The Secretary of State in Hoogeveen is going to destroy the regime and focus more on repression. I wanted to ask him if he could adjust the daily spending for both aso-azc's, so that people could do more socially useful things than playing football, watching TV and sports. Can he also earn the privilege of, for example, a private bedroom against the light of day in the evaluation he's going to carry out to the aso-azc's? People are there for a reason, so as far as the VVD is concerned, they shouldn't get a privilege that they don't have in an ordinary azc either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u144	Those privileges are actually something of the ebtl old style, as I would call it. In the group of a few years ago, behavioral change was the most important issue. With such a program you could work with rewarding good behavior and sanctioning unwanted behavior. That's why in the final phase in the ebtl in Amsterdam that own room belonged to it. That people only sleep in a room, sometimes has to do with a lower occupancy, but sometimes also with management problems, because with some people it is better that they sleep separately before there are any additional problems when they are in a room together. But I agree with Mrs Becker that this aspect also needs to be looked at. Then it's the day's spending. In the ebtl the character is: mastering and guidance. Only in a number of cases does this approach lead to behavioural change. Especially in Hoogeveen, as I explained earlier, we are going to work more on supervision and less on guidance and behavior improvement. We are still considering the programme offered in the ebtl Hoogeveen. If the assumption is that they have to do something in return for society, I say the following immediately. We're not restricting the area ban for nothing, because they're people we don't want much off the ebtl on the street. This again limits the possibilities for daily spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u145	Mrs. Becker still?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u146	Yes, Mr. Chairman, then I don't have to go back on it in the second term. The Secretary of State also writes that he wants to establish atmosphere-pvs in the ebtl, so that this can lead more quickly to a crime for which detention is possible. My first question was whether he's going to do the same for the regular azc's. Are there more times atmosphere-pv's about nuisance behavior there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u147	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u148	We'll see about that. It is time-consuming, but where it is necessary and contributes to the dossier, I do not call it for nothing. It's an additional possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u149	Let's move on to the second term. By way of derogation from the list of speakers, we will begin the second term with Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP. I understand from him that permission has been given by all the spokesmen. Is that the case? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u150	I asked Mrs Van Toorenburg and she agreed. I would like to thank my fellow Members very much, because I have to leave a little earlier because of commitments elsewhere. So I'll be brief too. Thank you for the answers. I think the key to solving this problem is return. So we've got to bet harder on getting back. I'll hold the Secretary of State to that. I have two motions. The first one is about the bus. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the burdening applicants for asylum receive separate bus transport because they can no longer be maintained in regular bus transport;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[calls on the Government not to reward abusive asylum seekers with the provision of free bus services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2479]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u151	I heard what the Secretary of State said about this. My associate will be watching the answer very closely. If she is superfluous, I will consider this motion. You'll see. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that there is a great deal of nuisance for asylum seekers in the municipality of Westerwolde, which Ter Apel is part of;]] [[noting the lack of adequate police deployment;]] [[calls on the government to provide a fully occupied police station in the municipality of Westerwolde,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2480]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr. Chairman. When we have debates about asylum, my Twitter list is often filled with people who think we're all softies and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u153	Don't look on Twitter during the debate. That's not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u154	No, but I haven't either now, Mr President, because I think people are now wondering if anyone is still soft in this room, because everyone actually agrees. It is: firmer, firmer and even firmer. I like that, because this is also about a group that we can only deal with. It is nice to see that we are once very much in agreement on asylum. There are two things that we have asked for our own attention. On the first one, I've prepared a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has presented a package of measures to better deal with the problems of harassing asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas lessons should be drawn from the solution adopted at the time with regard to the addicted nuisances, the systematic approach;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how a systematic approach could be developed to burdening asylum seekers and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Groothuizen, Mr Becker and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2481]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u155	"Assembly seekers" can be understood in a broad sense, including those who have been rejected. Then we in the Chamber are very concerned about the people who are no longer allowed to stay in the shelter because they cause too much nuisance. I do have a question about that. I have it contained in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as an ultimatum remedium, the government states that nuisance asylum seekers should be expelled from reception;]] [[Whereas there are risks to this effect, as serious nuisances will then enter the streets and, if they do not leave the country, may cause more nuisance;]] [[Whereas it is precisely in order to avoid any further inconvenience that everything needs to be done;]] [[Whereas the Return Directive could provide a solution but has not yet been adopted;]] [[invites the Government to periodically inform the Chamber of the experience and effects of the exclusion of reception, in order to keep an eye on the effectiveness of this measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2482]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I ended my speech in the first term, today shows that we should actually move towards a different asylum system, a system where we cannot increasingly abuse our hospitality, because it is no longer possible to apply for shelter here and because we are going to criminalise illegality. But until then, we'll keep looking for solutions. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to a more frequent ban on areas and atmospheres in regular azc's. I have two more motions in other areas. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Ter Apel insecurity and intimidation in public transport by harassing asylum seekers are the order of the day;]] [[considers that this misconduct should not be rewarded but punished;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibility of imposing a ban on the access to public transport for harassing asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with the surrounding municipalities of azc's whether a ban on street harassment can be included in the local APV, so that the police have a title to intervene in any incident,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mr. Chairman. Then there's a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ebtl locations are intended to separate asylum seekers with inappropriate and burdensome behaviour;]] [[Considers that these sites should be as sober as possible and should not include privileges that do not exist in regular azc's;]] [[calls on the government to include in the evaluation how both sites can be devoid of focus and daily spending can be more socially beneficial,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we can only note that the Secretary of State is not prepared to tackle the problem at the root, that he prefers to keep the troublesome asylum seekers under control and that he rewards them, instead of expelling them, with all kinds of bus trips and so on. So there's a lot of bureaucratic bullshit. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch society is plagued by harassing asylum seekers;]] [[noting that the government completely abandons the Dutch by doing nothing about this;]] [[calls on the government to put an asylum stop in place as soon as possible and to expel all harassing asylum seekers, status holders and illegal persons as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Emiel van Dijk and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mr. Emiel van Dijk. I now turn to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State. As Mrs Van Toorenburg said, protecting workers and residents from misconduct and preventing the good from leading among the evils is what unites this Chamber in large parts today. I have two motions to give effect to the WODC's statement that there is a positive link between return support and return. I have listened very carefully to what the Secretary of State said about the fact that return support should not be allowed to reappear in its own right, but I shall submit the next motion with conviction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the WODC, the abolition of return support has led to less demonstrable departure and that the government has also introduced a very limited form of return support for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways in which more intensive return support can be provided to achieve more demonstrable departure of rejected asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2486]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr. Chairman. My second motion is on the same subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the abolition of return support and the shortened procedure for asylum seekers from safe countries according to the WODC have led to increased burden on the Return and Departure Service and the Royal Marechaussee;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the extent to which capacity expansion at the Return and Departure Service and the Royal Marechaussee could contribute to speeding up the return of expelled asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2487]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the many questions that have been asked. I think it is wise that he indicated in the debate that he is going to look carefully on a case-by-case basis at whether or not the reception can be ended and whether that is sensible, and that he is prepared to see if this will not lead to unintended waterbed effects. I'm just waiting to see how that's going to develop. Thank you for the commitment that we will be informed about the implementation of the perseverance force. I am very curious to see what that will look like in practice. Mr. Chairman. We briefly discussed the situation in the foreign detention in connection with the problems in Detentecentrum Rotterdam. A Marine would say emptiness is the devil's ear pillow. I think one of the problems is that there is not enough to do there. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas lack of daily spending in foreign detention can contribute to boredom and unwanted behaviour;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how more unpaid socially useful activities can be offered in foreign detention within the walls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Grotehuizen, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2488]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, Mr Hiddema has co-signed. He had also made a point about pre-trial detention, and perhaps I should start by looking at whether we can encourage the public prosecutor to use it more often when it comes to criminal asylum seekers. Then I'll come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the approach to asylum seekers who are criminals should be made more effective;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to encourage the Public Prosecutor's Office to make greater use of the existing possibilities of detention when asylum seekers commit a crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u167	The second point we made in this debate was the increase in penalties. I have, of course, listened carefully to the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State, but I would ask him to see if there are any possibilities and, if so, to examine them. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the approach to asylum seekers who are criminals should be made more effective;]] [[invites the Government to investigate the possibility of considering the commission of offences in an ongoing asylum procedure or following a rejected application as a criminal aggravating circumstance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. I am pleased that the Secretary of State wishes to consider my proposal to look at the possibility of a GPS ankle band in certain cases. If, as he said, a legislative amendment is needed, then I would say: do you take the lead with all your officials, or do you expect something from a small group with very limited possibilities? Such an anklet can also be used to see if the wearer was at the crime scene or to check whether one is complying with an area bid. I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning that both a procedure here and a procedure at the embassy in the country of origin could have an auspicious effect. You don't want to, and I don't want to. To help you with that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas our asylum procedure is sometimes abused by unopposed asylum seekers from safe countries;]] [[Whereas there are problems with the expulsion of rejected asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas the spirit of time seems to be ripe for the adoption of possible structural measures and fundamental changes to our asylum system;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the advantages and disadvantages of moving asylum procedures for asylum seekers from safe countries, to the country of origin, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr. Chairman. The debate with the State Secretary has once again developed into a skirmish over procedures and personnel policy. As soon as it became concrete, the hairs came to your senses. The war situation, or rather, I have to say: the war zone in Rotterdam's detention centre has, as we can now hear, led to one quick trial. Did only one suspect come out of that whole spectacle? I can't take it. There's 30 leaders. And then the Minister says that the contacts between the prosecution and the detention centre are going fast and well. I don't know who talked him into it, but that certainly wouldn't have been the 29 remaining donors. Just one little criminal case because of the whole show. Then you think, "This is not going well, this is not going well." The Secretary of State must do what Mr Voordewind has now entrusted to the paper. My signature's under it, too. He has to... Must? I beg him to contact someone who really is from practice, who was the director of the Return and Departure Service, and who says that once the asylum seeker is in charge of the choice, he will be locked up and locked up in "do I want to go back, or am I going to sit here?', Return is not a problem at all. Then you don't need those countries at all. Then they'll choose themselves. Imagine that choice. Give your prosecutors the ukaze that rioting asylum seekers, you can call it those who commit criminal offences, get the provisional attachment to their pants by default. You will see that the judges will go with you. They will think: "We can deal with this problem. If we hold that man, he'll sit as long as he doesn't return willingly."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u171	And then the judge says, "Hey, do you want in now? Then we're gonna suspend your remand." Then the criminal case on the plane stairs is dropped. It's so simple. I should have been Secretary of State. But, yes, you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u172	Maybe one day we'll see it. Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. I'll take a look at the Secretary of State. Is five minutes enough? Thirteen motions have been tabled. Ten minutes? There's a negotiation going on here. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u173	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I'll answer two questions. Mr Hiddema said that only 1 in 30 declarations resulted in punishment. That's not entirely true. That one concerns a case that has already been decided in a matter of urgency. The other 29 declarations are still being processed by the D.A.'s office and are still being prosecuted. Mr Krol may have seen a commitment in my explanatory statement on the anklet, but I did not. I have just outlined what is needed and I have not yet made a commitment in this area. It is normal that if the Chamber wants legislation, I hear it from the Chamber in a ruling. I'll see about that. The motions. The motion in part No. 2479 by Mr Jasper van Dijk, I shall explain in such a way that it deals in particular with free bus transport. As already indicated, I really want to do that pilot but I also believe with the Chamber that it should not be free. If that's the explanation, I'll give her judgment room. The motion in part No. 2480 about the police station I advise, simply because it is not my jurisdiction. It's in the region. I did mention the measures we have taken to release capacity. The motion in part No. 2481 I give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 2482 I'm also judging Room. I hope you will release me a little bit in the way and how often I inform your Chamber about this, but at least I do so in regular reports. The employees of course also have to gain some experience and have the opportunity to do so. The motion in part No. 2483 by Mrs Becker I also give judgment Chamber. I have already promised to discuss these possibilities with municipalities. I would point out, however, that it remains the mayor's jurisdiction. With that in mind, I'm giving the motion judgment chamber. The motion in part No. 2484 is about the evaluation that we are already doing to the ebtl and what we can take with it: judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 2485 is a debate that we have often had. It won't surprise Mr. Emiel van Dijk that I'm deposing the motion. The motion in part No. 2486 I do not recommend, but perhaps I can suggest to Mr Van Ojik that he be detained at the moment because within a few months the policy review of the entire return policy will go to the Chamber, including the cabinet response. It seems to me more appropriate to look at this than in that whole context. Now Mr. Van Ojik highlights one thing. That is the return support with one conclusion from the WODC, but you can look at it in a much wider variety. As it stands, I would advise against the motion, but the debate will be resumed once again on the basis of the policy review.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u175	I thought it might then be possible to include these considerations in the policy review, so to take the operative part. I don't know if that's still possible. Maybe we can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u176	Well, the policy review's pretty far. I think it's a little weird, too. I think that a policy review is something that is done administratively and somewhat independently. That's where I don't want to go politically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u177	No, I understand. I would like to think for a moment, because I think it's a little bit separate from that. So I'm gonna think about it for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u178	Yeah, see you Tuesday, huh? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u179	The motion in part No. 2487 about the capacity at DT&V and the Royal Marechaussee I recommend. I believe that even the policy review will show that increasing the capacity of both services is not a solution to the problem. There are other structural barriers. That is what we discussed in the debate. It's really not a capacity problem. There is much more to it: what do you have to do in some countries to get a laissez pass? Then we'll be able to make it back. There is also sufficient capacity for this. The motion in part No. 2488 I give... Let me say something about it first. Unlike in penitentiary establishments, no paid work is offered in detention centres, because in free society foreigners who do not have a right of residence are not allowed to work either. On the other hand, there is a daily use of foreign detention, whereby the prisoners are free to move through the establishment in order to participate in activities, unless they have been subject to a restrictive measure. I do have some sympathy for the idea of supplementing these activities with activities that take place within the institution itself, which have a social purpose and which can at the same time contribute to a meaningful daily use, although I realise that there is also a price tag. That is what we will take with us in the investigation we are asking for. It must continue to contribute to the appearance that it is aimed at departure, otherwise I will be in a bit of trouble with the doctrine that Mr Hiddema has just put forward. It's gotta be something that's gonna get us out of here. Within these limits, I am prepared to conduct that investigation and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 2489 I give with some timid judgment Chamber. That's especially in the words "incentive to," because then you're already going to give a bit of a clue. I don't want to do that. I don't want to get the picture that the D.A. doesn't act in crime. But if I may explain the motion in such a way that, of course, we are always prepared to discuss this issue with the public prosecutor and that we are constantly keeping it on the agenda, then I shall give the motion, as I have said, with some timid judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. I leave 2490 to the Court's judgment, but I'll add a few words. The fact that a crime has been committed during an asylum procedure or after a rejected application, even long afterwards, may not be relevant to the imposition of a heavier penalty. I already explained that. It is an assessment of the person, his history, recidivism and so on, and not an inevitable situation in which he finds himself, for he may apply for asylum; he has that right. So I'm willing to do that investigation here, but I'm also giving some kind of profit warning. I also think I know what's gonna come out of it, but with that in mind, I'm gonna give the motion judgment Chamber. Finally, the motion in part No. 2491. I would like to advise against this, because I think it is really contrary to what we are trying to achieve with regard to asylum policy and what we are trying to do with our commitment in Europe. If you move the asylum procedure for asylum seekers from safe countries to the country of origin, that is not exactly a brake on these asylum applications, quite the contrary. It is only those who have finally come from a safe country to the Netherlands. But anyone can go to the embassy in a safe country of origin. So it means an incredible amount of extra work for people we know at the heart of which they do not have the right to asylum. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u180	I can imagine that I would amend the motion and that it would then be 'to explore the asylum procedure in the country of origin'. I am thinking, for example, of people who live in a safe country and who are homosexuals. You don't want to let him come all the way down here first, do you? Why shouldn't they just go there to the embassy? Then they could explain their problems there and then a decision would be taken on the spot. I'm not saying you should. I ask you to examine the advantages and disadvantages of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u181	Any research that charts everything takes time. I understand Mr Krol's situation, but we cannot make a distinction between the different asylum motives in advance. The moment you offer a procedure at an embassy in a country far from here, it will be used by everyone, including those who have no asylum ground. That is the reason why I say from my position: I advise against this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u182	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-18-tweedekamer-9.u183	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people in the public gallery. I wish everyone a nice Easter weekend.
