ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the joint examination of the already mentioned legislative proposals under the Tax Plan 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the continuation of his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. We were still in the first block, as you know. I'll do my best to finish it pretty soon, so we can continue with the four remaining cubes. In block one, I had joined the tobacco excise duties, which Mr Van Strien had a question about. In fact, he asked me whether I realized that there could be a combination effect for citizens living in the border region if they had to make a choice for purchases such as cheap drinks, petrol and tobacco. I'm sure I do. It is a well-known phenomenon that, at a time when taxation varies between countries, there can certainly be an effect when it comes to consumer goods. That is one of the reasons why we have phased in the agreement in the National Prevention Agreement to increase tobacco duty, so that the price of a pack of cigarettes goes to €10. We know that the effect is great when introduced at once. This applies to many excise goods, but certainly to cigarettes, drinks and sometimes also to medicines. That's true. That is the point we must always take into account. We do it as well and as angry as we can. But when we make a certain choice about how we set up our system, sometimes it turns out that we impose a different tax burden than the countries around us. There's a right point being made. I believe that we must always bear that in mind. Mr Otten asked about the impact of the thincap scheme, the minimum capital scheme for lending mainly to SMEs andzzp'ers. Let me point out that the impact of such measures on the tax burden of lenders depends on the individual choices of the banks themselves. The banks can choose whether to solve that in the price, whether to pass it on to their profits or pass it on to the customer. I can't go in there. I think it is good to realise that banks have been sufficiently profitable in recent years and therefore have room to make a choice. They have also had and still have good access to capital markets. Therefore, in the opinion of the Cabinet, the proposed measure does not hinder the sounder lending of these financial institutions to companies, including SMEs and thezzp'ers. The last part of the first block is the rental tax. I think it might be wise to take into account the issue of housing corporations right away, because there were a number of questions about that too. First, about the landlord's tax itself. Mr Ester, Mr Vendrik and Mr Van Apeldoorn had asked questions about this. Mr Van Apeldoorn, for example, asked what was at the heart of the justification for the continuation of the levy; was it still necessary, was it really a crisis measure? Mr Van Apeldoorn is also concerned that this measure will trigger a further crisis. Mr Vendrik asked whether offering a more substantial reduction in the levy in exchange for the maximum contribution to sustainability could be a good idea for the cabinet. Mr Ester asked how stable the new use of the landlord's levy is, as it may be lost in a new cabinet formation. Of course it isn't, but it could have been. There were a number of questions about the landlord's tax. There was also a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn which I would like to mention, namely why the increase in WWF and the landlord levy are not offset by a tariff adjustment, as is the case with municipal taxes. Let me begin by answering Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. I don't think the landlord levy will trigger another crisis. It is true that at the moment there is a shortage in the housing market. There are really big challenges and they are at the heart of our cabinet policy. The landlord levy does not prevent these problems from being addressed. In response to Mr Vendrik and Mr Van Apeldoorn's question, I also note that the cabinet believes that the housing corporations have sufficient financial space to make the necessary investments in housing and sustainability. This can be done with the current proposed measure in the landlord levy, as well as with the measures mentioned above, including the reduction of the levy for sustainability in the landlord levy. The picture is therefore that after the coming years, after all the measures taken and proposed, including all the tax burdens, the sector has sufficient macro lending capacity to continue to fulfil its task, namely to invest extra in housing. This is also apparent from the indicative spending area of the housing corporations, the so-called IBW, which is published annually. The IBW gives an impression of the financial position of the corporations. In 2019, the picture is confirmed that there is additional investment space at sector level in the forecast period 2019-2023, on top of the already planned investments of the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u4	For the record. I didn't argue that there's going to be another crisis. There's already a housing crisis. There's a huge shortage of affordable rentals. I believe that this is widely shared by the corporations and by the people who experience it, namely the people who cannot find a home. According to calculations, tens of thousands of houses should be built more than expected in the coming years. That's what I call a housing crisis. In any case, the analysis made by the State Secretary is not shared by the sector itself, not even as regards the funding space that housing corporations would have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u5	That may be so, but I was just trying to consult a neutral source on this, namely the IBW, the Indicative Deployment Room Housing Corporations. It does indicate that there is sufficient investment space available. That's also what the cabinet has in mind. We are not even talking about the low interest rates against which housing corporations in the public sector can take out their loans. Interest rates are 0% and even below 0% for the short term. We do not have the idea that the investment space is too limited to actually build the number of homes they would have to build. This may be due to all kinds of other things, but not to the investment capacity of the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u6	For the record, does the Secretary of State agree with our group that there is a major shortage of affordable housing? He seemed to deny that for a moment, because he said that there is no problem and that we cannot talk about a housing crisis. There's a huge shortage of affordable rentals. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State again if he can confirm that. Then there is the question of what this is about. According to the housing corporations themselves, and according to others, the abolition of the landlord's tax would certainly give a great deal of attention to the investment opportunities of housing corporations in order to overcome the deficits in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u7	I fully agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that the cut-off in the housing market, including in social housing, is one of the biggest challenges we have to face. I think that goes for almost all of us. It is not for nothing that the cabinet has made money for that. A number of other measures, the so-called 2 billion package, have been taken to make stocks more sustainable. I do not think we disagree on this. In Mr Van Apeldoorn's first term, it seemed that he said that the landlord levy as such is creating a new housing crisis. On that point, I said that I did not agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. In order to get a long-term picture of how the tasks and resources of the corporations relate to each other, the Minister for the Environment and Housing, in cooperation with Aedes, is currently conducting an investigation into the tasks and resources of housing corporations. It also looks, for example, at the contribution of corporations to sustainability and the responsibilities they have. This study should be completed in the course of 2020. If this proves to be the case, then I will come back to what Mr Van Apeldoorn says: there are financial problems in order to achieve the task, then options will also be outlined to resolve these problems. It's not like we're just gonna accept it. No, we think it's very important. If the investigation shows that there is a limitation somewhere, then we think we should see how we can solve it. So we keep holding a finger on the wrist to see if what we hope will happen will happen. I see Mr Van Apeldoorn seeing if he can say anything, Mr President. At least we don't disagree about the point he's making. We certainly do not want to trivialise the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u8	Before I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn, the following. The Secretary of State is still in his first block. It's 2:00 now. My proposal is as follows. I kindly ask Members to have him finish the block and then ask the questions about that block. And to do so as much as possible with all the following cubes. Otherwise, we're not gonna make it today. Mr Van Apeldoorn, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State and I disagree on the extent to which the landlord's tax is triggering or worsening the housing crisis. My simple question is, regardless of whether the Secretary of State would like it: would the abolition or substantial reduction of the landlord's tax help to further reduce deficits? Would it give the housing corporations the relief they've been asking for for years, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u10	Our analysis is that the investment space is sufficient for housing corporations to carry out the task they are asking for, namely building houses. It would increase their space if we reduced the landlord's tax, but I do not think this can happen without budgetary costs. Then we should put the bill somewhere else. That could just be with other groups who find that difficult. In short, you only have to shift the burden if you really think that the capacity of investing will be brought to the level you want to have. Once again, we do not think that this is the limit at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u11	How long will this block last, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u12	I hope not for that long, but that depends a little bit on how much speed I'm going on. Shall I try to keep the speed down a bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u13	Yes, and would you like to mark clearly when a cube is ready? Then the interruptions can be resolved at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u14	Yes. Then I'll continue with that, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester asked about the security of the tax reduction if the landlord levy would fall in a new cabinet. I cannot, of course, anticipate a decision by a subsequent cabinet on the landlord levy. As long as this landlord's tax is in place, the tax reduction we have just introduced will at least ensure that there is some room. All applications for the possible closure of the tax reduction shall be considered and accepted if they continue to meet the conditions. Finally, an adjustment, as Mr Van Apeldoorn suggests, is a substantial change in the WOZ value of the base. That requires further investigation. In 2020, moreover, an evaluation of the landlord tax will be sent to the Lower House. The alternative bases will also be considered. Perhaps we could take Mr Van Apeldoorn's suggestion with us to see if that could be a better basis. Mr Crone and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the cumulative burden on housing companies. The picture is real that the sector will have sufficient lending space in the coming years, including the tax burden, to invest, as I have just said. We were supposed to keep the finger on the wrist. That's how I pointed it out. We continue to monitor the position of housing corporations in the tax system. That was precisely the reason why we had already introduced a tax reduction in 2019 and an additional tax reduction for new buildings and an exemption for temporary dwellings from 2020. Moreover, the housing corporations obviously have the advantage that all entrepreneurs paying Vpb, i.e. a reduction of the rate from 25% to 21.7% in 2021. If you add everything together, you will see that both the burden development of the housing corporations and the resulting investment space should be sufficient for the ambition we have just talked about. I can also say that the Minister of... before Environment and Living will continue to report on my behalf on an annual basis what the housing corporations continue to pay for corporation tax and landlord tax, so that we can keep our finger on the pulse there too. Mr Vendrik asked whether we could anticipate the Ronnes motion, namely whether the cabinet could resume discussions with the Commission now that this new Commission has such a particularly good eye for greening and climate. Let us begin by saying that this is a very good start for this Commission and that we are going to see how it is going to implement it in the near future. Nevertheless, the cabinet sees no reason to anticipate the results of the Ronnes motion. In the short term, as has been said, the sector has plenty of financial space. In the context of the implementation of this Ronnes motion, the precise task for the corporation sector in the coming years, both in terms of sustainability and housing, is currently being mapped out and whether it can be financed in the long term by the sector. We expect the results of the motion before the summer. I assume that we will be able to discuss this area again, including your Chamber. Mr Van Apeldoorn had another question about last year's legislation, ATAD 1, and the corporations, which are part of it. Mr Vendrik also mentioned the Vpb obligation. Since there was a bit of a suggestion that I would not put things forward properly for this Chamber, I would just like to say that I have always provided as well as possible for all the wishes of your Chamber when it comes to the information decision. I have addressed this issue in detail in the written reply. That I would withhold information, therefore, I am really far from it. I have always spoken to your Chamber about the informal contacts we had with the European Commission. These were contacts at official level with DG Competition officials and the European Commission. The exchange of views took place via a closed Internet portal, the so-called State Aid Wiki, where you can ask for anything you didn't know about the State Aid, but also......................................................................................................................................................................... The information obtained from this has reinforced the impression in my administration and also in me, so to speak, that social housing is not to be regarded as a long-term public infrastructure project. That would be the condition on which you could exclude the housing corporations from ATAD 1. In my opinion, I drew that conclusion last year, and I have always shared with your Chamber the way in which we have been in contact with the Commission. That is different from what Mr Van Apeldoorn is asking: why was no formal opinion requested? The suggestion was that a formal request has been made, that papers have been sent back and forth and that I refuse to give them to the Chamber. That is not the case, and I did not say that last year. This is what we did. Once again, it has strengthened me in the policy which, moreover, has been applicable for ten years to the VPB obligation and the State aid obligation for housing corporations, when it comes to the Commission's influence and opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u15	Was this the end of the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u16	This was the block of housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u17	Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u18	With all due respect to the Secretary of State, I am not really satisfied with this response to this important point for us. I have understood correctly there was rather a misunderstanding about.... that there was no formal opinion, no paper advice from Brussels on whether there could be an exception for housing corporations to.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But advice has been asked. DG Competition in particular has been consulted. Now, on the basis of this, the Secretary of State and the Government conclude that it has been strengthened in the view that it is not possible, that it cannot legally, that there is no such exception. Our problem is that we cannot follow up, not check on the basis of which the government, as the Secretary of State also stated in the reply, is strengthened in that view and is not optimistic that the European Commission, which has not been asked for an opinion, would come to a different conclusion. That is the interpretation of an informal Brussels opinion by the government. We have not seen this informal advice. Nor can we follow that conclusion on the basis of which considerations and what legal analysis the government has come to. This lacks important information for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u19	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u20	Yes, the question is clear. Let me also be clear about Mr Van Apeldoorn. There's no misunderstanding. Perhaps Mr Van Apeldoorn wants to suggest that there is a misunderstanding, but there is no misunderstanding. There is no misunderstanding about the VPB obligation of housing corporations. There is no misunderstanding about that; we have told you this for years. There is no misunderstanding that if you deviate from a VPB obligation for a specific group, you are basically talking about state aid. There's no misunderstanding about that. This has also been a firm policy on SGEIs and non-DAEB for years and years. That's all done. The specific question here was whether there is a possibility within ATAD 1 to grant that exemption. We have been talking about this for a long time over the last two years, and we have said that there is no such possibility. We already know that. We have known this for years, because a housing project is not a long-term public infrastructure project like a bridge, a road or whatever. Then the question was: are you sure? We were once again informally via Aid... We have called those people, and they say: you know the rules, dear Netherlands. So they will never send us a letter: this is an opinion from the Commission to a national Member State. That's not how it works. Once again, creating a so-called misunderstanding here, I find a little on the edge of the discussion we have had and have had carefully. I have carefully returned the steps we have taken to that end to you at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u21	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u22	I'd like to give the Secretary of State the following. The Secretary of State keeps saying: we know that; we know that it is not possible, that exception to ATAD 1. But we in the Chamber don't know that. The Secretary of State actually says: "We are strengthened in our beliefs, in our opinion. We are not optimistic that the European Commission would come to a different conclusion." But on what basis should we believe the Secretary of State? It is also possible that, somewhere after Christmas, we should come to the conclusion that this pessimism by the government has been unjustified at this time. We cannot follow up on this, because we do not have the information that the Secretary of State apparently has at his disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u23	Secretary of State, the last on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u24	This is kind of a central concept. We are doing a legal analysis or we believe that a housing project is a long-term public infrastructure work. We finished that analysis and shared it, and we say that it is not, so there is no exception on ATAD 1. Mr Van Apeldoorn asks: but how do you know? We have examined that and also shared it with your room. There's no other misunderstanding. You can disagree with that; I understand that. Only, this is our legal outcome. We have also tested this once again, as we have done before: are these rules justified? This has been the case for more than ten years, not only for ATAD 1, but for the whole way in which our housing corporations should be looked at. Mr Van Apeldoorn believes that we in Europe should perhaps have regulated this differently in relation to housing corporations. That is another and also an interesting political discussion, but not about whether or not this is a reason to include an exception. So, yeah, that's all I really have to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u25	You can come back to that in your term, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I shall now give the floor to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u26	Sustainability of the built environment is incredibly important for the implementation of the Climate Agreement. Within this challenge, housing corporations play a crucial and exciting role. So we're all, and I'm sure, in a hurry. We're from the green fools on this side, the Secretary of State just understood. If the research of the Minister of... before Environment and Living is available in collaboration with Aedes to carry out the Ronnes motion for the summer, can we really count on Princess Day on a thorough reaction from the cabinet to how we proceed, so that everyone in the Netherlands knows and understands what can and cannot be expected, including in the region, including at municipal level, of housing corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u27	It is an important spearhead and a priority of the cabinet. Indeed, the Minister for Transport probably said 'from', given the emphasis Mr Vendrik places on 'for' environment and housing. It's really one of her spearheads to move that forward. If it shows that there is indeed no room or that there is some obstacle to the sustainability of our housing stock, then it will be guaranteed to act on it. It's not my first responsibility, I say. I know her and her policy agenda a little bit. I'm sure she won't let it go, if only because living and sustainability are top priorities for the cabinet. This is important for the cabinet agenda, even if you're not a green fool. It's a spearhead in our policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u28	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u29	My question was: if we share this urgency, can I assume that next year there will be a real plan in September and that we will actually take a step forward? The debate on corporations, the landlord's tax, the Vpb obligation and how they may or may not have an impact on the social task continues. I'd almost say that's what's going on. We would like to take a further step in this. The cabinet would help us very much by saying that it will come up with a plan for this on Princess Day 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u30	What goes a bit wrong in this part of the debate is that Mr Vendrik is already convinced that there is a problem and that new measures must therefore be taken. I have just indicated that I think there is enough investment space at the moment. We may be too positive about that. I have said this in the direction of Mr Van Apeldoorn. We'll keep an eye on whether it's true or not. If there are obstacles to achieving one of these two objectives, whether it is the sustainability of the housing stock or the number of dwellings that we can build, then we will make plans for that. It is not that I already know that it is happening and that is why I can say that we will come up with plans on Prince's Day. I think we want the same thing in this, which is to make sure it doesn't stop. However, Mr Vendrik seems to have already taken the step forward by assuming that there is an obstacle. I'm not ready yet. For the rest, I think we share the starting points. Mr. Chairman. I come to a second block on the other fiscal measures. I can promise you that that block is much smaller. Let's see if we can handle that faster than the first block. I shall begin with a question from Mr Ester on the choice of electronic messaging. He asked if I could guarantee that taxpayers who opt for the non-digital variant will be helped equally well and that we will guarantee that. First of all, there is always a very good legal guarantee. Everyone is entitled to the same tax treatment. That's the most important security we have. We will. At the same time, I cannot imagine that there is someone somewhere who thinks: someone who does it on paper must be treated differently for the same tax facts as others. I don't know exactly where that thought came from. Digitally, it's very fast. For by far most people, that's the most beautiful way to do it. There are people who, for various reasons, eventually choose not to do it digitally, but on paper. We have acknowledged this in this choice. Some people find it complicated. Some people are just a little hesitant to do it the electronic way. A few years ago, we assumed that everyone was going to go electronic. In what we are proposing now, you actually see that we also want to continue to offer the possibility of doing it on paper for people who consciously choose to do so. By the way, that will always be a very limited group. We believe that this group will become smaller over the period, but perhaps it will continue to exist forever. These people really have the same rights as any other taxpayer. They are treated equally by the Tax Administration. That way, I can secure it. There were also questions about the disclosure of the criminal penalties. Mr Ester also had a question about this. For example, he asked how the Tax Administration would engage in cooperation with the D.A., the police and the FIOD in tackling tax avoidance and evasion. Cooperation with these bodies is laid down in the Protocol on the notification and settlement of tax offences in the field of customs and surcharges. It's formally called the Protocol AAFD. It sets out which cases are notified for criminal prosecution. Following joint consultations, it is decided which cases are actually going to be prosecuted. In addition, the Tax Administration shall, where appropriate, report to the Public Prosecutor's Office if it has become aware of offences other than offences declared applicable in that Protocol. In the case of tax evasion, however, there is no direct criminal offence. So the IRS can handle it on its own. Mr Essers also had a question about this. It was more of a reflection, but I distilled a question from it. Probably the question was whether I agreed with the reflection that an inspector has a completely different role than an advisor. I can say yes to that. I thought his analysis of this was quite good and enlightening. The consultant's role is really different from that of the inspector. The inspector's task is to determine ultimately the material tax liability resulting from the law. He must do so as neutral as possible, or even purely neutral. I'm assuming that's how all our inspectors see it. Of course, for advisers, that role is really different. Mr Essers also asked whether the disclosure of the fine was a matter for the inspector and whether this should be left to the professional organisations. Mr Fentrop also asked me to reflect on this measure to publicise these offences. In addition, Mr Essers asked whether disclosure actually resulted in a professional ban and whether a more far-reaching sanction than only the fine would be possible. The aim of this measure is mainly to inform the public. It has already been said: the Panama Papers have made it clear that many professional parties are involved in the creation of tax structures. In the Panama Papers it was primarily about lawyers, but it might as well go wrong with notaries, tax advisors or accountants. As you already know from the parliamentary mini-survey on this Panama Papers, it turned out that there were indeed many professionals involved in designing these tax arrangements. Everyone then does part of the work and no one says that he is ultimately responsible for the whole. Everyone has really contributed to that. The cabinet now wants to publish the name of the facilitator in cases where there is an irrevocable intent on tax fraud. It is therefore a matter of serious cases of deliberate tax evasion. That's different from what we were just talking about. As things stand, I really do not want to make an exception for advisers who are members of a professional organisation. I think this is an important subject. I also think that many advisers think this is an important subject. I have received a great deal of support from the sector. People say: finally something happens to this; we were already doing it ourselves. One office is a little bit further on than the other. Once I tasted that enthusiasm, we also decided to organise a conference on tax governance on 30 January of the coming year. We ask professionals from different sectors to bring in their part of the story. Then we can discuss that. I would also like to invite everyone from this profession to continue to take action. Disciplinary situations may be involved and appropriate information provided to the public. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. In the end, it should not be the case that the government imposes it, or that companies and advisers do it because the government or the legislator wants it so badly. No, they have to do this eventually because you see the added value of this as a company or as an advisor. Just as you have an annual CSR report, you show where you stand in terms of tax and tax avoidance and how you look at it. Again, I think the time is right for this. My suspicion is also that very many will be happy to contribute to further shaping this idea. That in relation to OFM. Then we come to the tax measures from the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u31	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. I'd like to come back to the naming-and-shaming. It's meant for public information. Suppose professional organisations of consultants, accountants and lawyers take up the gauntlet and say: we do want to inform the public if serious infringements have been committed by our Members, and that can also lead to the exclusion of members. Are you then prepared to consult with the sector? Are you saying that this is in good hands with the sector, and as long as it remains in good hands, will I not use the inspector's right to disclose the names of these advisers? This has already been done by the professional organisations through internal disciplinary law, which at some point also becomes external.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u32	I think it is very good that professional organisations themselves take steps in disciplinary law, but I think the part is too important to leave it alone. It is beautiful and, frankly, I am also assuming that they will make proposals on how to do this for themselves. At the same time, there will also be advisers for those who do not. In the end, I want to make it clear to the whole group that it is important that we stop doing this. By the way, it's not a naming-and-shaming list. It's really about public information. The point is that it is not a bad thing if someone who has willingly and knowingly cooperated in setting up an illegal construction ultimately pays the bill for it by publishing his name. The fact that the sector itself is jumping forward to do something in disciplinary law for itself is fine, but I think that we should hold on to the plan that we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u33	When it comes to advisers who are not members of these organisations, I can follow it, although I think it is a very serious measure. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State in the case of advisers who have joined these organisations and where these organisations have adapted their disciplinary rights to the extent that this also leads to information to the public, says he will be reluctant, in consultation with the sector, to the possibility for inspectors to make advisors publicly known?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u34	I need to think about what exactly is meant by the word "resisting." It's not like we're out to put everyone on that list as soon as there's been a mistake somewhere. So that restraint is in it anyway and all the way for the first few years, because then we're still setting it up. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that I do not want to depend on whether something good can be done within that sector. So I just want to continue with the proposal as we have it, because I think it is important enough. This does not mean that we are keeping our eyes closed to measures being taken within certain groups of professional organisations. In my view, therefore, this restraint is already in place and I think I can also commit it, but that does not mean that we think it is sensible to continue to do something in general terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u35	Then Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u36	On the road to 30 January: is it the intention of the Secretary of State to invite or challenge the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u37	I can hardly imagine that that is not part of any of the papers that are going to be written, because it builds entirely on what I really think is going to work. The value of who you are or what you do as a company or advisor ultimately also depends on whether you know how to take this step. Of course, we've had the same thing before about investing green. As a government, we also issue green bonds. If you only do that because you want a nice new product because someone else thinks it's useful, it would never be a success. It's a success because many corporate shareholders in this sector are going to make the same comparison just expect you to participate. That is why I think what Mr Vendrik is saying is really logical, and I also expect it to be one of the central elements put forward by the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u38	Like what happened at the time with the Tabaksblat code?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u40	If every now and then a ball has to be kicked a few meters away in The Hague, that's also going to happen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u41	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u42	In line with the theme of that code Tabaksblad or the Corporate Governance Code: is it intended to link this corporate tax code, or whatever it is called, to it, so that it applies not only to consultants, but also to companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u43	Sure. We invite both sectors and business organisations to do so. A large company, for example, will be able to write about it in the annual accounts. I think that will eventually happen, as Mr Vendrik said. I'm sure of it. A smaller company that does not yet write large annual accounts with annual CSR reports is likely to be taxed by an advisor. His tax outcome is probably the outcome that the consultant brings with him, so that's where the consultant has a role to play. My point is that I think that that tax code or corporate tax code isn't what we're gonna call it, the name isn't really that important. I believe that this value has in itself, that the sector knows it, and that that is one of the reasons why the sector has actually been quite positive, both the advisory sector and the employers' organisations, and has taken up this gauntlet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u44	Does that mean that if there is such a code for consultants and companies, if it is agreed, there is a different attitude at the Tax Administration towards those same companies when it comes to assessing the tax return?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u45	We are not going to make the Vpb rate dependent on whether there is a tax governance code. There's no direct link. In the way in which we supervise, including from the Tax Administration, you may have to meet a number of conditions. An example is clarity in presenting. We now have that in horizontal surveillance. You might ask yourself, I'm not there yet, but maybe it's a good thought, or if there's something that actually gives hold and what really helps, if you see less constructions and structures being devised, that deserves a place in horizontal supervision. But that is a bit ahead of what we have to achieve first, namely something we all really believe in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u46	I assume the block OFM is ready. Then my question is whether the Secretary of State can still provide me with an answer, possibly in the second term, to my question last night about the consequences of switching to the new methodology for the BPM's CO base.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u47	I think I'll get back to "other" at that point. I saw it coming by someplace this morning, so I'm definitely gonna tell you about the bpm and the cars. In fact, I think I'm going to start with that now, with the Tax Measures Act Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u48	That's block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u49	Yes. It would have been wonderful if I had started this block with Mr Vendrik's question. You know what, I'll just do that. Then I have to change the order a little bit, but it's handy anyway. Mr Vendrik asked me last night whether too little bpm has been levied in the past on the basis of the old CO test, as we lower the bpm rates for the new CO test, the so-called WLTP. We had a test at the time and now there's a new test. It was said then that these cars do not change, but that only the test is different and that we would do it budget neutrally. We could have continued to charge purely on unit CO. So we didn't do that. That choice was made for me, and that's what it is. In that case, 2 billion more in tax revenue had been received. The previous cabinet decided to let the budget run, so it didn't have to be paid extra for that. The argument for this in the bill was that the actual emissions of these cars had not changed, but only the measurement method. If we had a bpm purely on CO and we had stuck to that unit of CO, we would have raised a lot more money. But that choice wasn't made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u50	I note that this cabinet is not adding or doing anything about it, and I note that this is a hazing matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u51	hazing at the transition at the time? That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u52	No. The greening of taxation, while we have to go the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u53	Yeah, that's right. But again: those choices have indeed been made before. We're talking about car taxes. We'll go further on the bpm. The funny thing is that the discussion is now hardly about what happened at the time when the new measuring system was to be used in Europe from the old measuring system. There was indeed a promise that this would be budgetaryly neutral. Mr Van Strien had a question about this: how can it be that the bpm yield increased last year? He asked me if I could imagine that this was yet another proof of an unreliable government. As far as bpm proceeds are concerned, he was absolutely right. That's right. It's like a bus. I say right away that this is not because the government has raised the tariffs, let alone managed to maintain the CO balance. The main reason for the high bpm yield is that many more new cars were purchased in the Netherlands in 2018 and that the cars were relatively larger and heavier. So the Netherlands had bought exactly the same fleet with the same emissions, that bpm would be on average neutral. In the House of Representatives we had a long discussion about the number of cars we have looked at to calculate that average. The increase in bpm revenue is therefore not proof of an unreliable government, but evidence that we have been buying more, larger and more polluting cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u54	I think it's a very special story. You are moving to a new measuring system, you say that it will be budget-neutral and then those bpm revenues turn out to be increasing. And why is that? Well, because coincidentally with the transition to the new measuring system, the new fleet suddenly turns out to have changed. It's very unlikely. I hope the Secretary of State agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u55	I think that's because Mr Van Strien thinks that that's a coincidence, but the trend of buying larger and more expensive cars, especially the SUV cars, are part of the transition, didn't happen by accident. We first had a discussion with the car sector and then also in the Lower House. We have an old and a new measurement method. The new method of measurement is more precise, but there will be cars treated relatively favourably in the old method of measurement and there will be cars treated relatively unfavourablely in the old method of measurement. Then, for thousands of cars and models, we looked at what it would mean if you transferred the same car from the old to the new measuring system. That's what a conversion factor comes from. The new system is stricter, so you'd expect a little bit more bpm everywhere, but my promise was that I wouldn't bother the car owner with the increase in that severity. On average, every car is gonna be the same. But there'll be people who bought a bigger car for whom it's negative. Moreover, this transition is positive for some large cars because they are treated relatively favourably by the new measuring system. The same goes for some small cars. In short, it's not that complicated. You take a lot of cars, you look at what they pay and what they have to pay and based on the CO measurement you calculate what the average is. Then we'll get where we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u56	Mr Van Strien, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u57	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u58	Oh, your second. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u59	Yeah, 'cause I probably need that third chance. I understand that a motion has been adopted in the House of Representatives in which the Secretary of State is asked to have another independent review of the transition from the old to the new system. I have two questions about that. Ask me one. Can this Chamber assume that this is a genuinely independent investigation and that it is not done by the same organizations as the two measuring systems that have now looked at them side by side? Question two. Can the Secretary of State promise that the results of that investigation will be known in about three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u60	I am committed to saying something about the words'really independent'. That's what I did in the Lower House. This measurement was not done by a dependent research agency, but by TNO. That is the only agency in the Netherlands that has sufficient data on all cars driving around and their emissions. For me, that is an independent agency, which did not do the research to guarantee more or less returns from me, but simply measured it. At the same time, this has a budgetary effect. We had that budgetary effect validated by the Central Planning Bureau. See if everything's been thought of. I would like to say again that the Central Planning Office is also an independent agency that answers these issues. So we have the TNO, an independent institute, and then the Centraal Planbureau, which looks at the estimation of the effects of those cars and also an individual research agency that also carries out an investigation. If TNO and the CPB are asked, on the one hand, and a consultancy firm on the other hand, if there can't be another consultancy firm, then I find that a bit of a strange presentation of things. That makes it seem like TNO and the Planning Bureau wouldn't be independent. I really think that's a misconception, and that's why we're failing these agencies. So I don't expect any other outcome to come out either. About the deadline: I do not know what is necessary and how we are going to deal with it. It will be difficult enough to think who is more independent than TNO or the Planbureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u61	Mr Van Strien, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u62	That's right, Mr. Chairman. This answer is very vague, especially the last piece in which the State Secretary says he doesn't know how to handle it and that TNO is independent. Is it gonna be a different desk now? That's question one. And how long can you think about deciding that we're gonna do that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u63	I understand that question, but the answer isn't that simple. It's not like anyone else has data other than the data we already have. The idea that you have an independent investigation based on the same data as TNO and the Planbureau have looked at, is still difficult to construct. 'Cause what else can they think of? Nor is it true that the comparison between what TNO and CPB did with what KMPG did to the other agency, I think, was the same kind of research where there was still a disagreement between the researchers. TNO has looked through a whole range of cars, the entire fleet. KPMG went by a number of models and said: Suppose you had the same model this year and next year, what's the difference? It took me a really long time to explain that to the House of Representatives. It is only one transposition: the transposition into the newest system by 2020. Then it doesn't matter whether it's a 2016 BMW X5 or a 2021 BMW X5 and that the same X5 is paying more now. Once again, the specifications of that same car have changed enormously over the years. So I really have to think about how to deal with such a motion, because I don't know what else is there than all this data, edited by TNO and viewed by the Planning Bureau, and what could be even more independent than that. I'm still thinking about that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the waste tax, on which a number of questions have also been asked. Mr Ester asked whether the measure to tax foreign waste was the only measure in this package within the framework of Urgenda and whether it would make a difference. It should be clear that this is not the only Urgenda measure. Of course, we have decided on many more measures with this cabinet. Think of the closure of the Hemweg plant, recycling and stimulating nitrous oxide reduction. A lot of measures, but none of them fiscal. The adaptation of the waste tax is indeed the only fiscal measure in the list, but it is nevertheless an important measure to implement. Then Mrs Van Huffelen and Mr Essers and Mr Schalk also had questions about the discussions we are having with the waste sector on an alternative to waste taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u64	I'm just trying to follow the logic of your cubes. Have we had the car taxes now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u65	As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u66	Then I'm a little late or you've finished a little too early. In my first term, I drew attention to the report by the Court of Auditors, which examined car taxes and noted them in my words, and concluded that it is not a balanced whole, that it is not all systematically going the same way, that there is a lot of money involved, from my mind 17 billion, and that from the energy transition there is still a lot to be done to bring all these car taxes, refund schemes, compensation, etc. into line, so that they systematically point in the right direction and promote climate-friendly behaviour. I would have liked to have had another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u67	Mr Ester is absolutely right. I still have a block of greenings, which includes car and flight taxes. But this was specifically about the measure in the OFM package. I will certainly come back to the greening of the car tax, but this was about the conversion of the bpm and the two measuring systems. Another measure is the taxation of foreign waste. I would have stayed with the question put by Mrs Van Huffelen and Mr Essers and Mr Schalk as to the state of discussions with the various sectors. The waste sector provided an alternative to the measure contained in this plan at the beginning of November. The cabinet has taken a serious look at that. The alternative contains business sensitive information and has been given to us under embargo. I have been asked not to go into specific areas. I understand that, too. However, it indicated that this sector is willing to think and participate. This is also highly appreciated, not only by me, but also by the Minister responsible. But in the short time available at that time, it was not possible to determine whether there was a real alternative to CO reduction. In addition, because this tax measure has an estimated yield, we should find a different coverage for another measure. I know that it was not considered wise by the cabinet to shift the burden from companies to households. That was one of the cover measures. We have chosen not to go further with a number of measures. This involved time, burden-sharing and also the feasibility of some of the alternatives they had proposed. Moreover, the cabinet would like to continue discussions with the sector with a view to possible alternative measures or measures in the future. I believe that the sector is fully prepared to do so. I will continue to inform your Chamber of the progress of these talks, also in response to Mr Essers' request. For the rest, I can add that Urgenda and climate resources are reserved for the promotion of the circular economy. We have also offered to cooperate with the sector on the implementation of these resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u68	But citizens always pay the bill. If there is less waste imports and the power stations are left empty, then the idea of recycling will go down, but they will often have to pay as shareholders of those plants. Is that gonna be taken? Because this too is a cycle, financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u69	We talked about this at all in the beginning. Anyone who claims to be able to make a hard distinction in a charge adjustment... If you put it down at a company, you can't say: that's it. That company can transfer it to the citizen for all kinds of reasons. Yet these effects are not always so clear-cut one-on-one. If you think about it properly, also from a greening perspective, you really have to ask yourself what you do with a particular measure. If we incinerate waste in the Netherlands, this will result in emissions of particulate matter, CO and everything that comes with it. We are asking for a price for this, because there is also an externality attached to it. In a way, it is quite remarkable that there would be no price to it if you happen to import waste from outside the Netherlands, with the same emissions of fine dust and everything that comes with it, if we had chosen not to burden these foreign waste streams. In the context of the Urgenda measure, it has been said that we consider this important. It also really helps for the goals we have. Any alternative measure must therefore at least comply with the budgetary component I have just mentioned. It should also produce the same reduction. In short, you are looking at the total of the measure. Well, it could be that that's what the sector said... that by the way the market is put together, you're getting a different kind of power, which could be negative for them on balance. I believe that the sector has a good point to make. If that's the case, if they can fix that, and they come up with an alternative to do it in a different way, then we're open to it. That's what we said. Of course, we have the Urgenda objective. We have that budgetary objective. That's what we want. Until now, these alternatives were just not of such quality that they were either feasible or fulfilled that other objective. That does not mean that we do not want to continue thinking with the sector about how best to do it in the near future, although that will be difficult for this Tax Plan, I think. I personally continue to think that it is difficult to explain that in the way we green and price waste we make a distinction on the basis of where it comes from, from Maastricht or just three kilometres across the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u70	I understand all these considerations sincerely. There's been an interim suit going on. I always don't quite know how that works, if we still have to pass the law. How long do you think that'll take? Otherwise, this law will be a law in no time. Then you can't stop it, I guess. Or can you change anything in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u71	I think we should be honest about the fact that the chance that we are going to make some adjustments to this Tax Plan is very small. I don't think we're gonna get out of this so fast, either. That does not mean that the consultation will stop. I think it's important to keep that in mind. After that, we'll just stay in consultation with the sector. And again, I really want to point out that this sector, also in relation to other sectors, has been in the spirit of thought all the time. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u72	Let me confirm, therefore, that the alternative plan remains on the table, regardless of the outcome of the interim proceedings. You keep looking for alternatives, but are you also looking specifically at that alternative plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u73	Yes, but once again, the alternative plan that was there did not meet the principles we had, namely either a climate effect or a budgetary effect on coverage. I did say that we are open to further discussion about a slightly modified plan or a plan with a different coverage or redistribution. The idea that they are looking with us for a way to reach our Urgenda goals, I have always experienced as very positive and constructive, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u74	So, if you come out with a legislative amendment, could that mean a correction to the proposal that is now before you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u75	Yes, but I have also indicated that the chances of us doing so in the next few days are small. Actually, we're late for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u76	No, but next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u77	Sure. If we come out with a good new plan, then I don't have any hesitation, to put it in good Dutch, to go further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u78	I have a question for the Secretary of State. You're halfway to block three now. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u80	Of how many in total?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u81	Five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u82	So now we are at half the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u83	No, I think we've moved on, because the first block, about burdens, as you know, is always... tricky. It's always hard to do that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u85	But I do see your comment as a small incentive on my part. At the same time, it is a lot of legislative proposals. I would also like to address the questions that have been asked, because of course they are not for nothing. Let me move on to another part, which was also a lot of questions about. This is about the ODE and the design of the alternatives. Mrs Geerdink and Mr Essers, Mr Frentrop, Mr Schalk and Mr Otten had questions about this. They asked about the design and effects on the companies. For example, the greenhouse gardeners were cited, but there are also other groups in the third disc of the ODE that have to do with this. For example, these members also asked about the possibility of reducing or temporising the increase in charges. First of all, let me say that the ODE scheme and the SDE+ scheme lie in the policy area of a colleague of mine, namely the Minister of EZK. I am not saying that simply because, as a designer and central director of the Climate Agreement, he has finally brought together all the different issues surrounding the Climate Agreement and made choices in it. Those choices were indeed mainly in the third disc at this point, in the search for burden-sharing between citizens and businesses. It was around the ODE and SDE on fifty-fifty, and there was a fervent political desire to allow business to pay a slightly larger part of this energy transition than households. One of the things that was decided at the time was that that should also happen in the ODE and that there should be a ratio of two-thirds/one-third when it comes to who pays for the extra funds needed for the SDE+. To that end, there were all kinds of choices. You could do that in the third and fourth disks. It couldn't be done in the first and second disks, because it also affects the citizens. It is true that there are considerable amounts of money going back and forth. Eventually it was chosen to cover it by doing a lot in the third disk. So that choice has been made consciously. Temporation of this would really be a derogation from the Climate Agreement, which we have concluded with different parties. For example, you would not be able to finance the tax reduction of an average of €100 on household energy bills, and that was also a promise that we, as a cabinet, would like to make to households. That is one of the reasons why the cabinet has also maintained those proposals that have been submitted to us by the climate tables. So I don't think temporisation is a good idea. There were more questions. Mr Ester asked whether the change in the ODE in the greenhouse sector might have the effect of increasing the use of fossil fuels. If I remember correctly, Mr Vendrik also had a question or at least a comment on it. I am told that this may apply to even more Members, including Mr Crone. It's a valid point. In principle, the ODE amendment gives an incentive to increase the sustainability of energy consumption by increasing the burden on it. This incentive is also desirable from the Climate Agreement. There is an incentive for the purchase of solar panels and geothermal energy, for example, two important new techniques. However, for companies using cogeneration plants and thus producing electricity, the gas deployment is subject to a full tax exemption. This can create an incentive to produce more electricity via the wattage. The additional gas input associated with this is then free of charge. However, the climate agreement agreed at the agricultural table that there should be less use of watts. Moreover, the cabinet has promised to keep its finger on the pulse in a monitoring requested by the Lodders motion and also to take into account the effects of this change of the ODE on the sustainability of the sectors in which these watts are mainly used. Let me finish, Mr President, because there are a number of issues that all come to this point, including monitoring. Ms Van Huffelen asked about the proposal for monitoring and impact on the adaptation of the SDE+ scheme. Mr Ester and Mr Essers made similar requests. Mr Schalk also asked about consultation with the sector on this particular point. In the short term, the cabinet will table with Glastuinbouw Nederland, among others, to implement the monitoring of the securities, as requested in the Lodders motion. The cabinet has also requested an impact test for SMEs, which the agency KPMG is currently carrying out for us. This information can also be taken into account in future decision-making on the ODE. A number of possibilities for the sector to be used in the form of subsidies have also been discussed. On the other side of the tax, of course, there is also the SDE subsidy. At the moment, greenhouse horticulture is fiscally stimulated by the Environmental Investment Deduction, that is the MIA. On certain environmental assets, a maximum of 36% of environmental investment can be obtained. This applies, for example, to green greenhouses. In addition, certain environmental investments can also be written off more quickly. The extended SDE+ scheme will consider whether additional options, such as greenhouse horticulture, such as daylight greenhouses and the use of residual heat, can be taken into account. The Minister of EZK will send a letter to the House of Representatives in spring 2020. I will ask him to send this letter to your Chamber so that you can also see it. The Minister of LNV, who is responsible for that other policy area, is discussing with the sector the use of some of the extra climate funding for 2020 for the sectors receiving that increase in the ODE funds on the one hand. This is the total amount of measures that the Cabinet had in mind to impose on the one hand an additional burden on consumption, but also to take account of the impact of these measures on the different sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u86	I understand from the Secretary of State that at least a consultation is planned with greenhouse horticulture. Does this mean, in fact, that this major measure has not been contacted in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u87	I wasn't part of any of the climate tables, let me put that first. My experience of all these climate tables is that everyone who participated in them has, I think, been part of one of the talks that took place at those tables. I wasn't there myself, so I can't quite put my hand in the fire for that. In all of what I have understood so far, also a discussion about this in the House of Representatives, it was made clear that all the different sectors that have a role to play, including the greenhouse growers, have been informed and that there has been consultation. That must have been with the Minister of LNV or with the Minister of EZK, one of them, but at least not with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u88	The problem here is that I haven't been at such a climate table either, so I can't verify it either. The Secretary of State might be able to check that out. In any case, the signals I have received are that there has been no clear consultation on this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u89	I assume that they were part of the talks and that they are also co-signatories of one of the parts of the climate tables. It may be that the effects were not yet fully in view or that they think that it is different. That seems more likely to me. But whether they're involved in the talks at the climate tables, I can have them checked out by the Minister of EZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u90	I would like to endorse Mr Schalk's question. We receive pertinent letters which clearly state that the sector has not been involved. That does not seem so unlikely when it comes to this kind of draconian tariff increases. You have to get a lot in return for that. I stress that it is very important for us to know whether or not this has been part of negotiations and discussions with the climate agreement sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u91	I'll come back to this in second term. For the time being, I assume that this has happened, but in the second term, I will clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u92	I am aware that, of course, the objectives have been discussed. In the process, the sector has even increased its target from 4.5 to 6 megatons. Of course, the sector also knew about the generic discussion on the ODE redistribution between citizens and businesses, but it did not know that tariff 3 would be the major victim. I think you can confirm that in second term. Then the question is what are we going to do? We cannot then accept 'the sector agreed'. Then we fail to achieve the objectives and then the sector shouts: we are not going to achieve that 6 megaton target. Of course, that's not just up to the Secretary of State for Finance, so I have a dilemma here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u93	That's right. I really didn't get involved with those appointments. I didn't get involved. I didn't get involved. I will really have to refer you to my colleague from EZK. I know that in a broad sense, also politically speaking, there has been talk of the division between citizens and businesses. Yeah, I know, and I was in that part sometimes. I think it was chosen quite deliberately to do so especially in that third disc. I also remember there were conversations about how it would naturally lead to redistribution effects. And not just for greenhouse horticulture, because there are more sectors that suffer from it. We have discussed this extensively, including in the House of Representatives. That's where we set up a whole monitoring system. We have said that we are also going to make sure that they are on the MIA list next year. We're gonna see if there's anything in the climate resources, and we can do something with the SDE+. It is very much the intention, on the one hand, for real consumption to be taxed, of course, in accordance with the objectives of the Climate Agreement and, on the other hand, for 'polluter pays'. If, at the same time, the redistributing effects are so great that we have to take additional measures, I can really imagine that very well. It's not in there. Only, my problem is that I'm neither about ODE nor about SDE+. I'm not setting up the MIA list, but we're working with it. It is therefore difficult for me to say more about it than I have just done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u94	If you remain within the framework of the subject of the debate, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u95	I recognize the conversation about the ODE from the Climate Agreement. I was sitting at another table, but that doesn't help here. What I think is relevant now, and I would like to hear the Secretary of State on this with a little more precision, is that the exemption for watts combined with that third disc for electricity will lead to more watts. That again, combined with the subsidy of CO storage in the port of Rotterdam, especially in the Westland, means that we are actually worse off for the climate on balance, while it costs us all more money. That's weird. That is a result, and that is what I want to limit this debate to, which we all should not want. I would like to hear confirmation from the Secretary of State that the Cabinet sees this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u96	I am going to disappoint Mr Vendrik here. When it comes to the combination of all these measures and the subsidy for the storage of CO, I am not saying that I do not know. So you really should discuss that with my colleague from EZK. I can't say much more about it. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u97	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u98	I do not blame the Secretary of State himself, of course, but then it is rather clumsy to say that today we are supposed to determine a position on a legislative proposal, in which a sensitive part leads to questions and that the questions cannot be answered by the Cabinet at the moment. Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. I also ask colleagues to think along with this, because it seems amazing to me to leave it at that. Then there are two flavors: either we continue this bill of bill....the climate agreement tax bill at another time in the presence of the Minister of EZK, so that all questions in this Chamber can be well addressed, or we suspend and see if the Minister of EZK can be invited to attend this part of the debate. I find this clumsy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u99	I understand Mr Vendrik says that. That is always the case when you have a part in the Tax Plan that also applied to the housing corporations and some other issues where I am not the first to be responsible for policy. I am defending the bill, but I cannot answer your question about the exact coincidence between the storage of CO and the subsidy, because that is what you are asking me about. You said so sweetly, "Let me limit it to that," but then I knew you were going to ask me something where I didn't have the exact answer. So if you would like an answer to that precise question, I can ask if the Ministry of EZK can help me on that particular issue. I don't have that right here. I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u100	I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to come forward with an answer in the second term. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u101	It's pretty simple. The ODE is an integral part of the climate agreement tax package. Within my group there are a few pressing questions about this to understand the implication of what is written, whether or not it coincides with the subsidy on CO storage. Colleagues have other questions, and I simply think it is advisable that we insist that this point be clarified. As far as I'm concerned, I'd rather not delay today or as far as I'm concerned. If it is useful, then, that the Minister of EZK should be asked to join us in this debate, or that we should ask him to join us in the second term, that might be an option. But leaving it here, I honestly don't like it. I ask my colleagues how they are in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u102	I'll take a look at the Secretary of State first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u103	On the one hand, I understand what Mr Vendrik is saying. At the same time, I also think that I am, of course, doing my best to answer all the questions that are important for the adoption of the ODE. Once again, if there is a specific question about CO storage and what is involved, I will ensure that I have an answer to that in the second term. But to say we don't have enough information to make a decision... Well, then we'd better move on and see if you have any other questions. I think I'm going to come up with most of the questions a whole end, but this one really went too far for me and is also outside my portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u104	Has this question been made sufficiently clear? Then we can at least wait for the second term. With your permission, we will see whether the question will be answered at will, because you want to look even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u105	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll continue with the greenings. This also applies, of course, to the fact that you have a tax component and a subsidy component and that I will focus mainly on taxation here. In any case, I think it is a good thing that a number of questions have been asked about greening, which at least I have a warm heart for. For example, several parties have asked for the progress of the measures already announced, such as the CO tax and the flight tax. The car file also contains, of course, a number of greening measures. For example, the cabinet already has several variants in preparation to further the issue of charging, which was also asked for. I'll get to that in a minute. For example, Mr Crone is asking whether I can also take major steps forward next year in tax legislation on climate change. A large part of the measures of the Climate Agreement are included in the current Tax Plan. Mrs Van Huffelen also calls on me to implement as soon as possible a number of measures announced but not yet included in this Tax Plan, such as the CO levy for industry and the flight tax or tax, but also the approach to polluting fuels in shipping. With regard to the first two, we already have something very concrete; not with regard to the latter, but it will certainly be part of our agenda to see if we can make externalitions there too, say: make the negative external effects taxable, so that the polluter pays can also apply in maritime transport. In any case, I know that my colleague from IenW has already made a green deal with the inland waterway sector and also the maritime ports to reduce harmful emissions and greenhouse gases, for example through shore flow and other initiatives. In order to take real steps, we must seek as much cooperation as possible in Europe; I agree with that. In the context of the EU Green Deals, on which I believe the Commission will present an important communication tomorrow, we are looking forward to what the Commission is all about to do. That also brings me to the flight tax. Here too, there was a question about what we worked hard to prepare not only nationally but also to get as many countries around us internationally as possible to join us. Moreover, most of the countries around us already have an aviation tax or flight tax and we do not yet have one. Recently, together with eight other Member States, including large Member States, we have given a statement to the Commission. In this we say that we consider the pricing of aviation to be important. We do not want to exclude any steps, but of course it starts at the beginning. The passenger tax as it applies in most countries is one of the options under discussion, but the Commission has said that it also wants to come forward with proposals on kerosene charges. For that, we are simply going to wait and see what happens, because that is interesting. The Commission has also said that it wants to deal with a carbon adjustment tax. If we get products from outside the EU with a lot of CO, for example poorly produced steel with a lot of CO and if that is cheaper than steel produced in Europe, producers would have an advantage on the European market. Should you not then, as a Europe, decide to tax these externalitions in advance, so that there will at least be comparability on a CO basis? That proposal has not yet been worked out. So we do not know exactly what that looks like, but we have been positive-critical about it. We're very curious what they're coming up with. We also really believe that European cooperation, even when it comes to other forms of pricing, can help greatly to increase the effectiveness of the measure and thus maximise its environmental impact. Then I come to the greening in car taxes. More specifically, Mr Ester asked whether it was not time to rethink the car tax system and make tax incentives more consistent for the climate objectives. He also asks how we can find the balance between generating this car tax revenue of 17 billion and the particular climate goals of car taxes and how I deal with this split. Let me first say that the goal of car taxes is, of course, to finance public expenditure. At the same time, however, tax incentives are also being used for air and climate goals. Sometimes these things can go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u106	Sorry, back to the previous block, about the various measures taken at European level to promote CO. I also mentioned in my contribution the subject of the general CO levy, a subject which was also discussed in the House of Representatives. That was about investigating whether it could also be part of the building block package. I don't know if the Secretary of State will come back to that in this block or at any other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u107	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u108	You'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u109	I'll get back to you on that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u110	Perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u111	I was at car taxes and I was just saying that, in addition to financing public expenditure, we can, of course, also link air and climate policy objectives to taxes. Finding a balance is then always essential and requires constant attention. This will also be measured differently by different political sides. In any event, with the Court of Auditors, the Cabinet considers that some of the special arrangements in car taxes can really be considered and requested. I think the Court of Auditors had a point there. We want to do this on the basis of the evaluations that are currently under way, especially the evaluation in the bpm and the mrb, because those are the arrangements that most bells and bells are on. They'll be on the roll next year. We will certainly have to do something with that. We also know that electric driving will become more and more established. This applies to us and, of course, to the countries around us. This obviously also means something for the development of our tax revenues. That's why we had the building blocks track explicitly look at this part again to show the impact of electric driving on the tax revenues. In the Climate Agreement, it was also agreed that the cabinet for the next cabinet formation was already making a brief reference to what we now call 'pay for use'. Everyone has their own terms for that from the past, but it often comes down to the same sort of thing. Here we now call it "pay for use." In addition, specific consideration is given to the driver's perspective of action. This has been taken into account in the decision-making process, so that the people who sit at a time when they can do something make a good choice of the environment. People who do not actually have an action perspective, you do not want to punish unnecessarily for the fact that they may not yet be able to buy a new car or an economical car. It is true that the Commission has also expressed high greening ambitions in this area. She will present the plans and we will certainly look at them with interest. Mr Crone asked even more specifically who actually pays the bill for climate policy. That's a pretty comprehensive question. I didn't ask all Dutch people how much they would pay for it, but of course it is a question: if we have such an energy transition, it must also be felt by everyone. If it gets to a very specific group, you might ask yourself whether it is willing to do so. Again, the point of the perspective of action was an important part of this whole decision-making process, including in the cabinet. So you really shouldn't let climate policy be something that only punishes bad behavior. You need to be able to give people with an action perspective something to gain their own advantage. In the end, you do solar panels not only for the green but perhaps also for your own wallet. This is exactly how you want to support the energy transition. I think that fair distribution is part of it. We have just been talking about shifting the burden of taxation from household to taxation from business. So that's actually part of it. An addition to the latter concerns the incentive package for electric cars. That was discussed at the table, very comprehensively and for a long time. How are you supposed to finance that? In the end, the choice has been made to reduce this funding, but also to limit the corresponding increase in costs for fossil fuel car drivers. There were first variants with a strong diesel tax increase. Finally, a limited diesel tax increase has been chosen for those who do not yet have the option to buy another car.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u112	Thanks for the reflection, but I was especially concerned that we do not go through that table in one building block discussion or another, because there are many stakeholders there and then you get technical subsidies. On the contrary, I want a target subsidy for reducing CO and perhaps other pollutants. It's going to be a tax system. There is therefore no need to negotiate too much. Can't that be prepared? 'Cause we're just gonna keep going round and round about techniques. Then we regret again, then we go hand to the crane and then we go hand to the crane, to put it nicely, return subsidies. None of that works. Can't that also be in the building blocks, whether separate or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u113	I try very hard to understand Mr Crone's precise question. As far as the building blocks are concerned, I am about to say something about a general CO levy. We have indeed requested that we look into this; perhaps Mr Crone means that too. Then you don't look at the technique anymore, you just look at the emissions. That's actually a pure form. So the answer I am giving to Mrs Van Huffelen will probably also be for Mr Krone. I'll give it a try in a minute. I think we'll find each other then, Mr. Chairman. At least, Mr Crone and I. Perhaps we too, Mr President, but I said this in the direction of Mr Crone. A question from Mr Ester was about tax incentives for public transport. He asked me how I stand in the relationship between climate agreement, public transport and tax. He said, "Don't you have to think more fundamentally about what's going on?" In general, we agree immediately that the tax arrangements can affect public transport and its use. I almost wanted to say: think of the lease bike as well. That is not entirely public transport, but perhaps a method of getting to public transport. It's an example of something that can help that behavior. Another example is the unpaid travel allowance for the employer, which pays the real costs of public transport, i.e. more than the €0,19 that you would get for your flat-rate mileage allowance. So yes, Mr Ester is absolutely right; that is also being looked at. In this context, it is also important to point out that, following a motion by Mrs Lodders in the House of Representatives, the cabinet will shortly begin an investigation into the modernisation of unpaid travel expenses. I think this point will also be taken into account. We have also identified the effects on sustainable mobility behaviour as an explicit part to be included in the research. It is true, however, that the Climate Agreement itself did not include any specific fiscal measures to promote public transport. There was a reason for that. We wanted these tables not only to think about how to stimulate something fiscally, but also how to achieve the same in another way. Otherwise, of course, it would have been easy; the various tables would have chosen above all to achieve all the goals through tax incentives or otherwise. But this also applies: there is no free money. However, the cabinet remains fully committed to improving public transport on the non-fiscal side and investing in infrastructure; the bicycle paths have been mentioned. We are also thinking of peak pressure loads to better regulate this. I also mention the coalition Anders Travel and the agreements that have been made about CO. For example, I have a whole list of measures which are not fiscal, but which are important for public health. In the end, I agree with most of the people here that this is an important part of the way we are going to deal with commuting. Then there is Mr Vendrik, who himself referred to paying for mobility in a different way. He actually asked if that was a new source of inspiration and if the cabinet is able to pick up this thread after ten years of taboo. As I have just said, we have indeed agreed that, for the sake of a forthcoming cabinet formation, the cabinet will launch an investigation into three different variants of payment for use. They were also mentioned in the letter we sent about this. In doing so, variants are examined, preparations are outlined and preparations are made where necessary, as is so beautiful here. I will send a letter to the Chamber before Christmas together with the Minister for the Environment and Living, in which I will outline exactly how we are going to deal with this investigation. In my view, that should be the Minister of IenW. That letter describes the progress of proceedings. We're pretty much done with that. It has to pass the Council of Ministers and if I have an agreement there, it will also come your way as soon as possible. It is true that we are taking up this challenge again. Whether or not paying for mobility is an inspiration, I dare not say, because the techniques used at the time, ten years ago, are very different from the techniques we have now. So I think much of the research we've done before is a little less useful, although of course some elements are about how far do people live from their work and what can you do about it? I'm sure you'll be able to come back up with some insights and insights from back then. It is a complicated and politically highly loaded subject, as you will understand, but at least we are going to make the preparations through the investigation. Then there is the general CO levy. Mrs. Van Huffelen asked for that. Wouldn't it be useful to develop a general CO levy? Mr Crone talked about something that is independent of technology and always follows from emissions what you have to pay. This is often the best way of achieving things in economic terms; Mr Crone is right about that. Should we not do this as soon as possible, and then, of course, preferably in a European context? Because as I just said, the effectiveness of measures will be much greater if you do this together. We have, of course, already told the House of Representatives that we are going to introduce a CO levy for industry. I have already promised the House of Representatives that I will have a more generic CO levy looked at in the Building Blocks project for a better tax system. That's part of it. As a cabinet, we are now focusing on strengthening the CO pricing resulting from the coalition agreement and the Climate Agreement. Think of the CO levy I have just mentioned, but also, for example, a minimum price for CO emissions from electricity generation in the Netherlands. That, too, is a bill which I will soon be bringing to the Chamber. I can say the following about the European dimension. As I have just said, we look forward to the proposals being made in Europe. We also intended to take the lead in the European debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u114	That's good to hear. My concern was also that, with all these measures, we might not be in time to meet the targets that we have already to achieve in 2020, given the verdict in the Urgenda case, of which, incidentally, will soon be the verdict in cassation. Can the Secretary of State say a little more about what is going to happen if it turns out that we need additional measures by 2020, perhaps even fiscal ones? I understood that this was also discussed in the House of Representatives. Should the current package be insufficient for 2020, will additional measures be considered? And could additional fiscal measures also play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u115	Sure. Look, these goals are set. We had it passed through, and you saw that we came a long way. At the same time, you have recently seen that, for example, if we grow faster than expected, our objectives can change because of the endogenous development that lies beneath them. But the cabinet has always been convinced that we want to achieve the objectives of the reduction. We want to implement all the measures necessary for this. Taxation is certainly no exception; it is one of them. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question, from Mr Crone, about the incentive arrangement for electric two-wheelers, mopeds and scooters. At least, I thought I could say from his speech that he had another question on this subject. You can of course see if you can arrange this via taxation, but sometimes it is also better to turn on something with an old-fashioned command and control button. At the electric mopeds and mopeds we decided to do it this way. We have therefore also made the agreement in the Climate Agreement, together with the sector parties, that from 1 January 2025 all new sales of moustache bikes on the Dutch market should be free of emissions. Sometimes it is more effective to land or ban something than to always do it with tax incentives. Mr President, that is what this block is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u116	So now we're on the last block, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u117	It's one-on-one-last-block. This is the block of withholding tax, ATAD 2 and DAC6. After that, I've got the last block, other than that. I'll keep doing my best. So it's withholding tax. Let me begin with a question that we have often raised in this Chamber. That is Mr Van Apeldoorn's question as to why we are in line with the statutory rate and not with the effective rate. We can do the whole discussion of last year again, but the bottom line is that I want a measure that is actionable right away and we can do something with it right away. At the time we start working with effective rates, we should look at whether we could calculate an effective rate by different currents and year by year. This is not linked to the fact that we can discuss for a very long time what form of effective tariff you would then have to take. For the time being, we have chosen to simply use the statutory rate, because we are sure that it is very likely that, if you have a statutory rate of less than 9%, you will have a very low effective rate. On balance, we do the same thing, but the advantage of that is that you can simply measure statutory rates, see them in the law and regulate them. By the way, I can say again to Mr Van Apeldoorn what we said last year. If we eventually find an international system that we all think is a good way to calculate the effective pressure for a country, then I would have no reservations about using that effective rate test, because it is, on balance, academically, the better test. Only if I were to wait until we might find that one day, I think we would be tackling tax avoidance too little. We do want to do that, and that is why we choose to start in our own way. Although it is a very crude approach, it is a very effective approach to combating interest and royalty flows to low-taxed countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u118	I suggest, given the time, that the Secretary of State should finish the block, just like before. If you want to mark that, Secretary of State, we can take all the questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u119	I'll just move on and I'll see. It's all about the withholding tax. Mr Van Apeldoorn also had many questions about this. He asked why a withholding tax on all interest and royalty payments was not chosen. He also asked whether we are making sufficient use of all the legal possibilities to combat abuse. The cabinet has deliberately chosen to introduce a withholding tax that only looks at interest and royalty payments to low-tax jurisdictions, in order to avoid unnecessary impediments to capital flows. A general withholding tax would also affect domestic natural persons, for example. Especially in the case of a withholding tax on interest, this would result in extremely high administrative burdens and implementation costs, including in the domestic situation. A withholding tax would then have to be deducted from each interest payment, which would have to be offset by income tax or business tax. For this, the Tax Administration should build a completely new system. This could lead to major problems in implementation. Apart from that, there's no one-two-three to say when that's even possible. The anti-abuse provision in withholding tax and similar anti-abuse provisions in dividend and corporation tax is based on an open standard, which is derived from EU law and should be interpreted accordingly. We are therefore very much in line with the legal possibility offered by EU law. That was his second question. Mr Essers asked whether this smaller proposed tax, which Mr Van Apeldoorn mentioned, would not already lead to a disproportionate administrative burden, since companies would have to check whether or not a withholding tax applies to all interest and royalty payments within the group. This also applies to the fact that we have discussed this subject a little more extensively in the House of Representatives, but it is good that the question is once again asked by Mr Essers. The draft legislative proposal before us has sought to strike a balance between combating tax avoidance, namely to low-tax countries, and the need not to unduly hinder the investment environment, and we are talking about the freedom of capital flows. Not a general withholding tax was chosen, but only on a limited number of transactions, to the low-taxed countries. Moreover, the withholding tax applies only in related proportions. Furthermore, in certain cases it is possible to ask the Tax Office in advance whether withholding tax is payable in a specific situation. Given this limited scope and the possibility of asking for any advance security, we do not consider the administrative burden on business to be disproportionate in the end. Mr Essers also asked whether we should wait for some OECD initiatives, such as in the famous Pillar 2 section. The OECD is thinking that if you see flows disappear in low-taxed countries, it will come up with measures that achieve the opposite effect, for example by raising or whatever. In itself, I believe that the OECD Pillar 2 measures are interesting. We agree with the idea of doing so as much as possible with all of us, because we all know that tax competition cannot be combated from the Netherlands alone, so we do. We are also optimistic that the OECD is really capable of doing so. At the same time, we are concerned that there is still a great deal of work to be done. If it does take longer than we think, we will stay year in, year out waiting for perhaps an OECD outcome that is also implementable for us. In the meantime, in order to prevent the Netherlands from continuing to act as a gateway to low-tax jurisdictions, because that is what we are, and also to reverse the picture that the Netherlands makes international companies too easy to avoid tax, we have decided to step forward with this withholding tax ourselves. There may soon be an OECD proposal that is important for the Netherlands. In this connection, Mr Essers asked whether we should inform the Chamber sufficiently, because these OECD proposals can be quite far-reaching in the end. I fully agree with him that we absolutely must do so. Parliament must be involved in the OECD discussions in good time. In my letters of 10 October and 14 November, I informed the House of Representatives about the state of play. I intend to inform your Chamber with letters of this kind during the trial, and I say this indirectly to the people who do so. Then you can follow that directly, without having to look at the lists of the House of Representatives. Mr Essers also asked about the withholding tax the role of the demands of proportionality and reasonableness. He noted that the withholding tax could lead to possible double taxation in the event that companies chose to pay this withholding tax. We have already indicated that we do not estimate revenue for this measure, because we assume that most companies will not choose to pay our withholding tax of more than 20%, so we honestly do not think that this is a very broad stream. Some sort of balance has been sought. Do you also need to include additional provisions for double taxation? We think that would be overkill, because it doesn't make any sense to think that this will happen massively. So that would be a question of legislative overkill. We've been looking into it for a while to see if we'd like to. The accumulation of all measures makes it extremely complex, so it would be a lot of work for something that would not be expected to bring much. For this reason, we have not chosen to regulate the netting of any withholding tax to be paid with corporation tax. Mr Essers also asked what that means for the jurisdiction of the judge in this matter. I think it would be appropriate for me to exercise restraint in making judgments on what the jurisdiction of the judge is. Mr Essers will understand that. In my opinion, the intention and choices of the legislator are clearly and clearly laid down in the law and will be seen as such. Mrs Geerdink asked whether this tax avoidance measure would go too far, because there should also be an attractive locational environment. Mr Essers pointed out that the cabinet had a tendency to opt for the option of a directive that was most burdensome to taxpayers. He also asked me to reflect on whether this would not unduly damage the competitiveness of the Netherlands. The role of the Netherlands in international tax-saving structures is well known. I think that this is detrimental to the reputation of the Netherlands and therefore also to the real investment climate in the Netherlands; we should not underestimate that. That is why I have chosen to implement the European proposals for directives, such as ATAD 1 and 2, in spirit and not always by definition to choose the minimum implementation. I think that this proposal does rather good than bad for the Dutch investment climate for all companies with a real presence in the Netherlands. I think it is really important for real companies to focus on a lower rate of corporation tax and to move forward with no further narrowing of the foundations and doing less for flow-through practices. Moreover, all these companies can still make use of their participation exemption, the extensive treaty network that the Netherlands has and obtaining advance security, not least. These are three elements which I believe are crucial for a good Dutch locational climate. It would be a shame if we saw that taxation in the past was seen as an asset of the Dutch climate of establishment, but because of its reputational aspects it became more of a liability. That would undermine the investment climate, and I want to protect it. So I do not agree with both the questioners that this would lead to a deterioration of the real location climate in the Netherlands, quite the contrary. Mr Essers also asked about this reputation, for example in Brussels. Of course, there's a reputation that it comes on foot and goes on horseback. If you look at the lists that the Netherlands is very high on, for example when it comes to flow-through activities, you can see that we are not getting there very well. On the one hand, there are sometimes good reasons why we, as a small economy, will always end high. If you look in all reasonable terms at the amount of flows going through the Netherlands, which we talked about a little bit more about last year, you will see more than 4,000 billion of fis that maintain a balance in the Netherlands and allow those flows to pass through the Netherlands. That's a lot. I think that the real economy in the Netherlands has less use for that than for real companies. That is an explanation why we are pursuing the policy we are doing. This is also being taken up by the OECD and the Commission. The IMF has also commented on this. They say: yes, we do see that the Netherlands is seriously turning a page here in relation to the reputation of the past. That helps. At the same time, I always say: I do not do that because the Commission or the OECD likes it so much, but because it is good for our country if we make the agreements the way we want to make them. Mr Essers asked the right question whether we were quantitatively measuring the effects of the measures taken by the cabinet in the area of tax avoidance. Here, too, we spoke extensively with your Chamber last year. I have said that it is quite difficult to choose one specific parameter for this. It will not be that we are there when we measure that one, for example the number of mailboxes. It's a system of things we have to look at to see if we're successful in what we're doing. We will be able to measure the withholding tax to countries quite quickly, because we have DNB that can see the flow. For example, if you only look at the amount of mailboxes, it doesn't say anything about the flows going through those mailboxes. I will come next year with a letter in which I will explain in detail how I intend to monitor the effects of the measure so that we can present it on a multiannual basis. This is very important for the effectiveness of our measures. That with regard to the withholding tax. Then I also have a block of ATAD 2 and DAC6. If it's all right with you, I'll get right on it. But it may be that MPs want to ask another question about the first part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u120	It was all very quickly about the withholding tax, but yet again my question why it could not be more ambitious. In his reply, the Secretary of State says that things are getting very complicated. It is easy to look at the nominal rate and that is effective also a low rate. Yeah, that's pretty weedy. The point is that there are a number of jurisdictions that we know are using a nominal rate above 9%, which is now a bit arbitrary or artificial based on the EU. There is also the fact that Hungary has this as a tariff. We know that the statutory rate, which is now the standard, is higher than 9%, but it is actually much lower. There are special tax regimes in Mauritius, a very common example of which we know this. There are also territorial tax regimes, such as Panama and Hong Kong, which we know is actually much lower, because they only tax activities in their own jurisdiction. Then my question is: why weren't these countries just put on the list? I thought you said you could have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u121	The question has two parts, and these are justified questions. In the academic case that there would be many countries with a nominal rate of between 9% and 16%, i.e. above 9%, this would result in very low effective pressure. These examples are very limited. Why? Because companies that want to channel profits to low-taxed countries will opt for countries where it is 0% or very low. You can see that in our own data. What jurisdictions do we see these flows go to? Those are the ones who are very low-taxed. We even took that into account. It has to do with European directives that we are at 9%. If we had not, and if we had chosen 11% or 12% or 13%, would there be only one country that would have chosen our country? The answer to that is "no." That is why my point is not that there would be no academic desire to end up as close as possible to the effective rate or that there would be no ambition for us to make a serious list of it. We know that the flows to those countries are low. This is true of nominal rates. That's one. The second question concerns territorial regimes. That's another question. Moreover, in the case of these territorial regimes, it may be that most of the countries which have them and which Mr Van Apeldoorn now calls themselves, are already on the European list. These territorial regimes are very often unable to meet the transparency requirements that exist. One country was mentioned, but I do not want to go into individual countries until they are really on a list. There is a considerable chance that these countries will end up on the European list if they are not very clear about how they deal with it. The beauty of the list we have made in the Netherlands is that it is not only a list of countries with a rate below 9%, but also of all countries on the European list. We therefore believe that the group of countries where we may not end up and which Mr Van Apeldoorn has just mentioned will indeed be included in the legislative proposal on that side. I am much more ambitious than Mr Van Apeldoorn would like to give me. I know that might be difficult, but it really is. The fact that I choose to join those nominal rates has to do with the fact that if I didn't, we wouldn't be dealing with this bill today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u122	It is good if the countries with these territorial regimes are included in the EU list. We look forward to that. Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us when we can expect that. Then he can inform us about that. Let me come back to the other category, the special tax regimes, the preferential regimes, where you are effectively far below the statutory rate. The Secretary of State says: yes, we know these countries; that is only a limited number of jurisdictions. To be honest, that surprises me, because I have heard before, also from the House of Representatives, that the problem is that we do not know and that we have too little knowledge of it. Then I'd say you'd have to find out. Can the Secretary of State confirm that we know which countries are involved and can he give a list of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u123	That earlier discussion was about the effective rates. It's very difficult to calculate that. That was the discussion we had in the Lower House about other countries. My question to Mr Van Apeldoorn was: suppose now that was an academic thought that we had not had that 9% limit. We do, so the law won't be changed for it, because we can't go higher than that 9%. But if we hadn't had them, what are the chances that there are countries that will be able to find them and that they will have a large stream? That was more of a rhetorical question. My point was: I don't think there are any. Moreover, nominal rates are not so easy to fix. For example, we also have two rates in the Netherlands: one for low and one for middle. We've been asked exactly what it is and if there's a list of it. We can ask the RDFD if the OECD or they have anything on a list, but I think that doesn't make much difference, because the choice of companies to let their profits flow away to low-taxed countries has already been made. Those are countries that have 0% or almost 0% and do not have an effective rate of 8.9%, so to speak. That will be for other reasons, such as those territorial regimes. Here too, it is good to continue to look at this. It's a semantic discussion. We would like to make the most of it, but I think it will be a very limited number of countries and that the tax avoidance flows that we see from the Netherlands to those countries will be extremely limited. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to look for a long time, apart from the 9% rule we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u124	Finally. I want to stay away from the semantic discussion. If, with the withholding tax, the flows will no longer go to the low-taxed countries, such as Bermuda with a statutory rate below 9% or even 0%, the Secretary of State says: if you do tax avoidance in this way, you will simply make those payments to those countries. I understand that, but if we can no longer do so, there will be a diversion of flows to Mauritius, for example, which, as we know, has an effective rate below 9%. So how does he deal with the problem of shifting these flows? That's the whole issue, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u125	I must say that Mr Van Apeldoorn is trying to paint an image as if I were happy with an outcome that there are a number of countries where money can flow away. According to my agenda, I have made it very clear to everyone that we are going to tackle these flows. Mr Van Apeldoorn tries to give all kinds of examples where it might be that it does not work. If it didn't work, we'd be taking additional measures. It's as simple as that. That is what we are trying to do with as many European countries as possible. I was prepared to continue to do so before we were finished with the OECD and before we used the European list as our list. A little confidence in the fact that I have the same objectives as Mr Van Apeldoorn seems to me appropriate from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u126	I have two questions in response to the Secretary of State's speech on this subject. First of all, the headlines on directives. He referred to the term 'the spirit of the directive'. To be honest, I have a bit of a problem with that, because that is a bit of a metaphysical concept. I know purpose and purpose, I know the letter, but the spirit... If you choose an option that is least in favour of taxpayers, it has nothing to do with the spirit of the directive, because the directive allows for different options, including the less far-reaching ones. That is a policy choice and you can discuss it. Where you go even further than the directive allows, I find it difficult to understand it as 'the spirit'. We all know that the way these directives are drawn up is not always transparent. So that really is an interpretation of the legislator in the Netherlands. I think you should be very reluctant about that. My second question, Mr President, relates to the double taxation of prohibitive levies. I kept a whole story yesterday that we praise the Secretary of State for being strong in the case. Fine. But there are always real situations in practice where people are covered by these charges and can therefore be faced with double taxation. We'll see that these things happen. I understand that the Secretary of State says that it is a bit overkill to incorporate it all into a law, but I would like once again to make a plea to look at real situations in the field of implementation with the necessary flexibility and to ask the inspectors as much as possible, and also expect them to try to avoid double taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u127	This is a call to inspectors. As you know, I'm not calling the inspectors. They have their own responsibility to apply the law. I think it's good to respond to the first part. If you have the option within the directive to do a minimum or more, it is not the case that you are outside the directive if you do more than the minimum. That is the suggestion that lingers here, but that is not the case. At the same time, if a minimum is defined at European level, you can always decide as a country to move forward. What if we had a European minimum rate? I also believe that many parties, including Mr Essers, would not be in favour of this. Then that doesn't mean we're allowed to have that minimum rate. We should definitely be up there. This also applies to measures that we consider important, for example to tackle tax avoidance or evasion. Then we can simply take that measure. That is what we will do. It's not like you're gonna go any further than you're gonna. You used the word "allow." I think that's a wrong form of presentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u128	One final word, Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u129	The Secretary of State is all about saying: I choose the more far-reaching options because I want to remain within the spirit of the directive as much as possible. But even if you choose a less far-reaching option, you remain within the spirit of the directive, because it allows that. You say you leave double charges all the way to the inspector. I'd like to hear that in conjunction with the role you see for the inspector. But there is also something like providing a policy implementation framework by the Ministry of Finance in the form of implementing decisions. The fact that you are encouraging this would therefore help to eliminate the unnecessary hardness in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u130	I get that. At the same time, this bill did not make conditional withholding tax dependent on other matters. We have said: no matter what happens, it is really intended that there will be a withholding tax from the Netherlands on these flows. Mr Essers is now speaking outside the microphone about ATAD 2. That's the next block. I thought we were talking about the first part, but now I'm going to ATAD 2 and DAC6.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u131	Is it true that this is your last block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u132	That's the last block before the block, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u133	Do you think you can finish in about ten minutes or 15 minutes? Otherwise, the planning will run with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u134	I can certainly do that, but as you know, I don't have it entirely in my own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u135	We also have a schedule with committees and dinner, so I would ask Members to be somewhat reluctant to interrupt where possible. Otherwise the planning will go to hell and the potatoes will fade away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u136	Mr President, I am very reluctant to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u137	Mr Frentrop has a reluctant interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u138	Very reluctant. But since I hear we're at the last block, I'd like to interrupt pre-emptively. I have two further questions, one on the capital return tax and one on the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u139	Sure. I've got the other block, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u140	They're gonna be in that block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u141	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u142	As long as you keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u143	It's a surprisingly versatile block, Chairman. Mrs Geerdink had a question about ATAD 2. Apparently, she asked Mr Essers there a little while ago whether the implementation of ATAD 2 does not go beyond what is required by the directive. She also asked whether the cabinet would be prepared to reverse the choices made by the cabinet next year through legislation. ATAD 2 provides Member States with partial choices in implementation. That is also explicitly the intention. In some cases, the cabinet chooses to go beyond the minimum standard in the directive. In all cases, the Netherlands implements the so-called secondary rule, while ATAD 2 is chairman of four hybrid mismatches, and I know that your predecessor always liked that term, so we said that as often as possible we gave the opportunity to implement secondary measures. The cabinet also does not accept a temporary exception from the banks that was possible. The cabinet deliberately wants to combat tax avoidance with hybrid mismatches and therefore also uses the entire tools that ATAD 2 offers us. In doing so, the cabinet implements not only the letter, but also the spirit of the directive, no matter how complicated it may be for Mr Essers to get a picture of it. Since it is a deliberate choice, which the cabinet proposes in all transparency, the cabinet does not intend to make any other laws or choices that reverse these choices next year. This does not mean, of course, that everything has always been poured into concrete, but the cabinet realizes that the implementation of ATAD 2 has an impact on taxpayers. That's why the cabinet keeps its finger on the wrist. At the request of the House of Representatives, I would like to share that again with your Chamber, chairman of the Chamber of Representatives, the Cabinet will continue to monitor the effects of the documentation obligation on the administrative burden and, on the basis of practical experience, will continue to consider whether further guidance regarding the documentation obligation could be developed. That part has been discussed in the House of Representatives. We will also continue to monitor the impact of the tax avoidance approach, as I said just now. This includes ATAD 2. I will continue to draw the attention of the Commission, as promised in writing to you and to the House of Representatives, to an overview of the way in which, for example, ATAD 2 is implemented by other Member States, which we have not had so far. That's what we keep asking for. This will improve understanding in relation to other EU Member States and, where necessary, and to the extent permitted by the Directive, it will strengthen, amend, clarify or otherwise adapt legislation. So that option remains. We were just talking about it: there seemed to be a misunderstanding about DAC6 that we would have implemented in addition, but at DAC6 we really did a one-on-one implementation. I probably misunderstood that. Mr Ester asked whether we, as European Member States, could no longer learn from each other on the issue of ATAD 2. That is actually what the previous answer is for. We do not yet know exactly what that is about, but if we have it, it will be important for us to discuss it with each other. I will continue to make this suggestion to the Commission so that we can understand it as soon as possible. The last part in this block was about the balance of power between advisor and inspector when it comes to DAC6. Mr Essers asked whether I was not afraid that the balance of power between the consultant and the inspector would be thrown out of control in favour of the inspector. The balance of power is not disturbed by this bill. The exchange of DAC6 information between EU Member States is essential in order to identify and address undesirable international tax practices. The inspector may impose a fine only in cases where the information obligation of DAC6 cannot be properly or intentionally complied with. He also asked whether DAC6 might pose a risk of allowing retroactive effect more quickly. I think this is because of the following. DAC6 was announced on 25 June 2018 and was to be implemented on 1 July 2020. At that time, a notification was made, in fact, to prevent anyone who knew that something would go down on 1 July 2020 from reporting everything. Following publication of the proposal, there is an obligation to report cross-border constructions, i.e. not retroactively. The European Union has chosen to do this in order to prevent all kinds of reporting situations from being avoided. During this transitional period, there will also be a very cautious approach, I would say to Mr Essers, with the imposition of sanctions. I think this is important to his question. Then I come to the block other than that, with a number of topics. Let me start with the topic most commonly mentioned: box 3. I have quite a lot of lyrics on that. I'm trying to cut it down a little bit. In a general sense, many members have therefore been asked whether we really can't accommodate savers before 2022. I think that was the port of a number of contributions from your members. Some even had alternatives they could imagine. I fully understand the wish of this Chamber, which was also there in the House of Representatives. I have also said in all my debates that we are trying to meet this wish as quickly as possible, especially from the saver, who gets very low interest rates on his bank account and still gets hit, not with the 4% in the past, but still at a flat-rate higher amount than he actually did. I think it is right that we should do so. At the same time, we have the fastest timetable, which takes us until 1 January 2022. This also has to do with the implementation practice. If you change an existing parameter, in this case a percentage in the law, you can change something quite quickly. Then you could do it by 2021. By changing an existing percentage or amount, such as tax-free capital, you could do it. However, once you introduce something new, that is not a parameter. Then there really needs to be a new system for it. That's what ICT people have to test completely. We're gonna test it with other systems. The implementation processes must be tested. Although it seems simple, it is more profound to build into our process. Unfortunately, it is. At the same time, I have indicated earlier in this debate that I continue to prefer to take those implementation tests that are being made for me seriously. If there's a red flag somewhere, because we can't do it for a certain date, then I'm just going to say: it can't be for that particular date. Although I sympathize with your Chamber's desire to do something quickly for the saver in particular, it's not because I don't want to, but because we can't. I hope the Chamber will understand that. We cannot start implementing faster than a year before we know we have to introduce something. We're almost at the end of the year now. We also need to make legislation. A number of comments were also rightly made by your Chamber on the subject of certain adjustments. Here too, we still have to go through a careful legislative process. That is what we need next year: we did not finish this afternoon. If we start legislation by 2020, we can decide at the end of that year on how we all think we should. From the moment it's a law, we have a little year to make it all work out. As simple as that sounds, that time is really needed. That's for all kinds of reasons. There's not one particular reason. We have talked about definitive and provisional reporting, we have talked about ICT systems, we have talked about the fact that within a certain changing capacity of the Service a limited amount of adjustments is possible at the same time. As annoying as it is, it's not my lack of ambition or laxity or that I don't want to do anything. There's nothing I'd like more, but I can't. I would ask your Chamber to understand that this is the case. Then there were more specific questions, for example about the ECHR procedures. Mr Vendrik and Mr Essers asked about the procedures which, over the years 2013 and 2014, constitute a breach of Article 1 of the ECHR. That was in force for 2013 and 2014, but can we grant the same compensation to taxpayers who were under the mass objection procedure from the designation for the years 2015 and 2016? I have a long answer to that. The short answer is: yes, that commitment is therefore also valid for the years 2015 and 2016. I hope I have gained some time, because I think this was the answer both gentlemen were looking for. Building blocks. We have already dealt with them a bit in previous parts, because especially in the system discussions the building blocks are mentioned as important elements. We all want to come up with a system that is less complicated, which is a tight and sustainable tax system that can satisfy all the elements. Mrs Geerdink had some suggestions for it. Mr Essers, Mr Van Strien, Mr Otten, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Vendrik, everyone actually had some questions about what we all had to consider in the building blocks project. I agree with most of the elements of the input. It's about simplicity. People need to understand what's happening. Everyone will give it their own taste. I would like to say one more thing about it. It's not one central opinion. Someone gave an example of how not to. That was the Van Dijkhuizen Commission. That was really about something else. When it was said: we have a number of problems to solve; dear committee, how can you do that? Now we are not working on one central advice, but on building blocks that we can provide to everyone to do something with. In part, this is for the major revision by the next cabinet, but in part also for our cabinet, should we find a political majority for one of the ideas. For example, Mr Vendrik had one on EU taxonomy. He said: Can't you use that in box 3? That's a great idea. We'll pass it on. I can't look over all the ins and outs, but if it's a good idea, the building blocks committee will certainly pay attention to it. I know they're listening. Mrs Van Huffelen asked me if I wanted to include eight principles in my search. Let me be brief and not name them all. Yeah, I actually thought they were all logical and understandable in a sense. They are also very much in line with the issues at stake: concept of prosperity, future stability, greening, fair income distribution between income and wealth, labour market, entrepreneurship, international competition and an alternative to supplements. To name a few, these are really parts that are being discussed. Mr Schalk asked about the Joseph tax. He explained in the General Financial Reviews that we should not confuse the various Josephs. Although my knowledge of this is far from certain, I have kept that in mind. I had already said something about it during the General Financial Reviews, but I later came to a new, funny, observation. He was talking about 20% as a Joseph tax, as it was at the time. At the request of the now teloorgegane political party VNL, we once looked at what would happen if we abolished and reduced all fees and charges to one level. Apart from all the political wishes, we wanted to calculate that. The Central Planning Office produced a budget neutral picture at a rate of 22.9%. Somewhere over the centuries there is a surprising resistance. We are only 2.9% away from the Joseph tax of that time. I thought that was a remarkable insight. I don't know if we're gonna come out of this tax altogether. I thought it was a nice insight and I'm sure that for the fundamental discussion behind it we can't delete a lot to make the system simpler? The building block discussion will focus on this issue. I just wanted to share this insight with your room. The building blocks will also contain less far-reaching options, I promise. Mr Crone had asked more specifically about the grant exemption. He suspected that this would lead to an increase in power inequality. This is a grant exemption for, for example, buying your own house. The Planning Bureau has recently investigated this and concluded that this scheme did not increase capital inequality. Sensitively, you think that this arrangement leads to inequality, but the Planning Bureau does not come to that outcome on the basis of the facts. I'm just gonna grab the block of charges right away. This is also part of one of the issues that we discussed earlier in the debate, but which are also related to the system and the system changes. Someone asked for a brief reflection. I can be clear about last week's debate in the House of Representatives. That was an impressive debate. It wasn't always easy. I didn't mean to. After all, it was a serious matter. I think it is a good thing that I was able to say a number of points in that debate which are also raised in your Chamber today. Of course, it has led to a terrible situation for those parents. One situation was even worse than the other. But we must also be careful not to lay all the blame on the tax officials. I was very pleased with the remarks made by Mr Schalk and Mrs Geerdink, among others, that it really is not just a matter of a number of officials in the Tax Administration, as if they had decided on a Saturday afternoon to deal with all kinds of Dutch people horribly. It's been a combination of a lot of things. I wrote an extensive reconstruction of it in my letter. Mr Donner has given a great deal of thought to this. I'm not gonna do all that again. It said that the system is very efficient and gives huge advances to people whose capacity may not always be as high as the legislator assumes. It's tens of thousands of euros a year you give before people make the real cost. That was so screwed up. Afterwards, we were very strict on the basis of existing legislation and regulations, which we all, with open eyes, adopted in fraud policy. Then you get to the part where there was actually no room for customization at the service. Especially for the surcharges there is a very efficient factory that ticks off and finishes surcharges. Then you come to the outcome, which we all now say: how is it possible that we have not come to the conclusion all these years before that everything has to be different? Unfortunately, it has proved to be a reality that we have not reached that conclusion in all these years. In fact, only the service, but also the legislator, also the policy makers in The Hague and even judges, consistently did not come to the conclusion that the way we did it was wrong. In the summer of this year, just before the summer, I had a long debate in the Chamber. There was one of my points: even if everything had gone well but the outcome of the law is where we are now, then I think we need to change that. This cannot be achieved without a political and legislative adjustment to surcharges. I must say, however, that I am often not the appropriate govern ment to respond to this, because the policy responsibility for many of these surcharges lies with other ministries. That really is the big difference between fees and taxes. We do both as a service, but taxes and adjustments to them are my own responsibility. This makes it even more important that the way we look at this and want to build a new system is widely supported by all sides of the political spectrum and the different departments. We should not be too bitter to bear in mind any major changes in this regard. In fact, I think actually... I've been talking about ibo 1 and ibo 2, which are also looking at these big adjustments. I do not think we can afford to make a road map on the basis of these opinions and on the basis of what we now know. In this way, we are already starting to think about what can be done, rather than starting to think about what can be done in the next cabinet period. Until then, of course, there are a number of measures to be taken, the quick wins so to speak, for example when it comes to proportionality in the system. The situation with the surcharges was now all or nothing: if you cannot justify everything properly, you will get nothing at all. That's not the case with taxes either. Together with Mr Van Ark, we have now decided to come forward quickly with a proposal to put an end to that situation with proportionality, so that you do not lose everything at once if you do not have complete administration. That really needs to happen. I do not want to dwell on this in detail. It's not part of this plan either. But it was asked yesterday or this morning, no last night. I thought it would be good to at least put this part down. Ultimately, it affects the system discussion, not only with ibo, but also with regard to the building blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u144	Can you finish this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u145	Yeah, I'm getting to the execution tests now. I have just said a few words about it. This also applies: a red execution flag is a red execution flag. Mr Ester asked: is it robust enough? My idea is that in the past there were those execution tests, but not robust enough. Moreover, the execution tests were often isolated and not considered in a chain. So if you had six adjustments in the same chain, then maybe all of them can be taken individually. But if you want to put them all in the same chain in the same year, you can't. That really is a new part of this cabinet period. Indeed, I was not going to add water to the wine, but to keep wearing out why I really want some things, but that they can't if they can't. You yourself just had an example of this. I wouldn't want to make any other choices in that. Mr Van Rooijen had a specific question about the capacity of the Tax Administration to change. When he was sitting on the other side, as it is so beautifully called here, I got a question whether we should not put it in the picture. He said "the minister," but I think the two of us had a debate on that. I said: 'It is actually very wise to do so, to show the changing capacity of the service, including in the field of ICT systems'. We have indeed asked Ernst & Young to keep the whole automation company under review: are we doing well, do we have a good program culture, are the good people and everything that goes with it? It's been visualized. The intention is to make the report public now, because it is finished for their part. The report will be sent to Parliament in the week from 16 to 20 December. At first, the commitment was to send it to the Lower House, but we are sure to send it to the Upper Chamber as well. Of course, the supplement debate that has just taken place also has a connection with the functioning of the Tax Administration. I have put that forward earlier in a smaller composition of your Chamber. Now it seems as if the functioning of the Tax Administration is so dependent on how we deal with the surcharges. But when I started this job, we were mainly working on the changes around the blue section, so ICT and staff shortages. We have made an end of this, for example, by attracting sufficient staff and showing our ICT wishes. We're a long way from here. For example, if you look at the study of the change capacity........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That was different in the past, I thought. Mr Otten said that I had less ambition in this than my predecessors. He said it differently, but he must have meant it almost like that. The fact that I call it'refreshing control', which is to say less quickly at the same time, does not mean that I have less ambitions, quite the contrary. I think, on the contrary, that my ambitions can best be met by holding back occasionally on the amount of changes that simultaneously roll out over a tax administration. If you reorganise and want everything different and change the top structure and do all ICT projects at the same time, then there comes a time when you don't have the overview and you don't finish anything right. One of the key elements... I will not renew my entire agenda Controller with you, Chairman; we have done so before. The essence is that at least we have a picture of what we want to change, where we are and how we need to get there. Yeah, we've been working on that for a couple of years. The store stays open during the renovation. We have said a lot about this too. Culture change is a component, one of the three pillars, also in view of the CAF issues that we have had with the surcharges. It is an extremely important theme: how do we become a more learning organisation? It was also asked to reflect on the report I had from the FNV on the fact that too much insecurity was felt at the service. I myself received that report and indicated that I liked the fact that this report was there. If you want to learn from your own mistakes as a Tax Administration............................................................................................................................................................ If it is true that at the moment I believe that it is still too little feedback is given at the moment when you are wondering whether you are actually being sensible about it, then it has to come up. We need to pick that up actively and not hope that the service will come with it. Mr. Van Rooijen says: "You have both renewed control and the Tax Administration and all those legislative projects. We are also making eight legislative proposals here. We have a pretty extensive greening agenda. We have the ambition on box 3. Isn't all this way too much for this Secretary of State?" He comes with a request that I know of him: in that respect you could also think of a second Secretary of State to do the whole job. It's not the first time we've had a discussion about that. On the one hand, I greatly appreciate the fact that Mr Van Rooijen is also a little concerned about my time use. I can absolutely agree with Mr Van Rooijen that I sometimes think: so, that's a bit of a spicy week ahead of me. At the same time, apart from a motion but as an idea, I would like to reject a second Secretary of State, one being mainly in favour of implementation and the other being in favour of legislation. As I said just now on the block on surcharges, it is extremely important to have policy and implementation in one hand. At the moment when you have an ambitious Secretary of State whose main aim is to develop a lot of new plans and also a Secretary of State whose main aim is to keep the implementation under control and, above all, to keep it calm, you run the risk that two State Secretarys will be in constant conflict with each other, including in the political debate. My advantage is that I can at least take into account, for example, the red flags from the execution tests and take them seriously before I draft legislation. Having a colleague may be desirable in terms of time spent, but I can still manage, Mr Van Rooijen; that is also what I am saying to the chairman. I don't think that's why it was a good idea. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked why we did not have a picture of how many people were involved in the allowances. He assumes that all those who have received a supplement have already received some sort of labeling: I have once suffered from the way institutional bias has touched me. Of course it isn't. It was precisely for this reason that it was so important that we first have a picture of what the first group of parents is, that we then ask the ADR and the Donner Committee very precisely which parents have had to deal with this in all other CAF cases. Then there is another step three, and that is the most complicated step: are there people who were not accidentally involved in such a fraud case, but who were affected by the same bias? Those people, we say, deserve that same treatment in some sense. We'll do our best. We're going to do that now with a separate phone number. We certainly had something for that at the Tax Office over the phone. I also understand that not everyone wanted to call the IRS phone. We now have a new song on 1 January to get people who think they are affected by this. That is also the time when I can indicate a little more about the numbers. Mr Van Rooijen asked for a reflection on poverty among the elderly. Let me point out that increasing poverty not only among the elderly, but also among children and the rest of the Dutch is a theme that we should not underestimate. We shouldn't be laughing about that. We can't interpret that as a side issue. That's a really serious problem. It is also bad news if poverty among pensioners increases. I just wanted to make the point that this applies not only to pensioners, but everywhere. That's incredibly important. By the way, if you compare the number of pensioners in the Netherlands below the poverty line with poverty among older people abroad, it seems to be not so bad. In Iceland and Denmark, according to OECD figures, the situation is even better. I do not say in any way that we are doing almost the best and that this is not a problem. It's a problem, and we have to keep looking at it. The Social and Cultural Planning Office has confirmed the picture that the proportion of the poor among pensioners is below the national average. That's really gotten worse. It is up to us, not so much from the point of view of taxation, but from the point of view of cabinet measures, to continue to see what we can do best. Very briefly, then, towards Mr Ester. He asked if I had any other fiscal priorities for the remaining cabinet period. I'd almost say, "Do you have a minute?" I'm gonna make a quick run for it. Then he also knows that the answer is that there are still a lot of them: the liquidation loss scheme; excessive borrowing in its own company; box 3; CO levy for industry; Bill on flight tax; minimum CO for electricity generation; a number of important investigations, such as those of the Ter Haar Committee; taxation for multinationals; how we deal with the digitalising economy. In short, even after the completion of this Tax Plan, we still have a very full policy agenda. I also hope to be able to continue to discuss this with you at a high quality level, because it is important what we are doing. Mr Frentrop asked about the functioning of the ABD in relation to the research into the problems surrounding the implementation organisations. That is an important investigation, by the way. I think what the House of Representatives asked is important. This also applies to the reflection on the own role of politics in creating, for example, the austerity of implementing organisations and the desire to always be more efficient. I think it's a good thing that that happens and that we can all learn a lot from it. I find the direct relationship between that learning process and the ABD somewhat less obvious. If problems are felt about the quality of the colleagues at the ABD, I would refer Mr Frentrop to the colleague who deals with this. That's the Secretary of State. There was a motion in the House of Representatives on this point. It has been held until the moment when the person who knows more about it can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u146	Can you finish this block, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u147	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. The do-it-yourself test is super important. It was mentioned by several people. This applies to the supplement story, but Mr Crone and his predecessor have also asked explicit questions about it. We're doing a lot of that. There's more. We'll come back to the Chamber with ways we can do that. Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned horizontal supervision and the alternative performers, I say to Mr Van Rooijen. There are several ways of shaping tax laws and regulations. That doesn't necessarily have to be done by the IRS. There are a number of very good examples in which the Tax Administration can make use of the knowledge available from other authorities in the implementation process. Take the example of the intention of the CO-minimum price. It will be implemented by the Dutch Emission Authority. The truck tax is not done in preparation by the Tax Administration either. In itself, it is not at all bad if others propose that and if the collection is made by the Tax Administration on the basis of data provided by authorities who really know. I have a number of other examples of this, but let me leave them for a while. This brings me to the end of my last block: the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u148	Thank you, Secretary of State. I thank Members for their patience. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u149	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reflection on last week's debate on the abuses in the Tax Administration, particularly the surcharge scandal and the poignant and horrible stories we have heard about this. I would like to come back to a specific question that I asked: does the Secretary of State know how many families are affected? The answer to that is that we don't know yet. He's actually saying this is going through a three-stage missile. It was CAF 11 first. We've had that step. The second step goes through Donner 2 and the Audit Service Empire. There's a third step. It goes through a new and special number. I'm glad it's going to be a special number, not the Tax Phone. Can the Secretary of State name a timeline? When are we gonna know about this? Of course, it is not excluded that new cases will ever arise or that people will come forward. The point is that we have at least a better and as complete a picture as possible of how many people have been affected by what the Donner Commission has called the institutional bias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u150	Sure. We also had the same kind of discussion with your partymate in the House of Representatives. It's actually very clear. I'm guessing Donner's gonna come up with results around or after Christmas. We will respond as soon as possible after Donner and the ADR. That's about which parents weren't in CAF 11, but they were in other CAF cases. I think we've got that time pretty quickly. Paying out the CAF 11 parents we want to start by Christmas. Of course, some parents may not agree to the allowance scheme. For those parents, it will obviously take some time for the whole thing to go on. However, this is not because of our ambition to pay people out as quickly as possible. With that last question, about how many more parents there are, it's really hard to give an assessment. It's not like people can only report through a separate number. For example, we've had a black book drawn up by your party. There are a number of people who think they've been affected by bias. I do not think we should say: no matter what happens, April of next year will be over. When someone comes forward with the same problem, I think it's up to us to try to help them too. When it comes to the exact timeline, as far as I am concerned, all three groups are affected: as soon as possible, without being careless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u151	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u152	Finally, although this is my second interruption, but fine. I get that last part. I understand that you don't say to people who report to you after April through that special number: you're late now and we're not gonna help you anymore. The second group that is now going to be known on the basis of Donner 2 and the ADR is not just about identifying the number of victims. Then there is an important question of compensation and when people can count on it. Of course, there can always be people who say: I do not accept this and I actually want something else. Could the Secretary of State perhaps tell families who have been waiting for this for a long time that 'as soon as possible' means, for example, that they will have their compensation by 1 June at the latest? I'm not talking about that last group, but I'm talking about the second group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u153	This really is a copy of the previous debate. You're asking exactly the same question as your colleague. I'll answer exactly the same. There should be no misunderstanding that I will use all my ability to respond to these parents as quickly as possible. No one has any doubts about that; neither do you. The point is that it must continue to be done with care. We told them we're working with the CAF 11 parents for Christmas. For the other group of parents, we await the opinion of the ADR on whether they have experienced the same in other CAF cases and whether a fee is available. They have indicated that they think they will come forward with this before Christmas. Donner's gonna tell us about the compensation. I'm assuming he will in January. I'll respond immediately after that. For all other parents it happens as soon as possible, because they are entitled to it. There is not much point in saying about this. If it turns out that the compensation scheme is incredibly complicated, then there is no point in saying that everyone has the compensation for June. It's not about whether I'm willing to do this. We need to get eyes on the group of parents first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u154	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u155	I hear the Secretary of State say twice "now as soon as possible." We can all accept that. You said that Ernst & Young is coming up with a report and that it will be dealt with before Christmas by the Cabinet and by you, or at least by Finance, by you. Will you also receive an accompanying letter on the basis of the findings and will we receive them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u156	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u157	The second is a comment for the sake of clarity. I pointed out last night a message that came out last night about poverty. That was not about the poverty of pensioners, but about the increase in poverty among 55 to 65-year-olds, in addition to the poverty of children. I wanted to point that out. I'd like to give that to you. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the pièce de résistance and that is the second Secretary of State. I will come back to that later, but I would like to respond very briefly to what the Secretary of State said about this. I have, of course, left aside from the fact that I have experienced a distant past in Finance that there have been two State Secretarys, but that, by the way, in the House of Representatives over the last two years has seen how difficult the function of this State Secretary is. I've said it myself before, I'm just saying it here in public. It's almost a pitiful function. That's what I'm talking about in a positive sense. For I do not find the Secretary of State himself pitiful, but I find the task package so large in terms of legislation, but above all because he has the largest public service, and that is what I mean in the heavy sense of the word "it is no small matter that I really wonder whether it is not wise to appoint a second Secretary of State in a new cabinet now, and not in two years' time, at least if there is a new cabinet then. I don't see why that wouldn't be possible. I can't clap out of school, but I know how hard it is for you. I had the hope in the spring that there might be a turnaround and that a second Secretary of State might not have been necessary. I spoke to the Minister and to you about ICT. We just talked about that. In view of the misery now with the allowances, in particular the childcare allowance, and also the whole implementation burden that it places on the service, but also the concern for you to manage that well. That is the good word "in the coming months and almost two years', my question is what is going to happen against such a second Secretary of State. He may be of the same colour or partyless, as long as he has the expertise. You could say that two people are responsible for the same service. That's not what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u158	I think your question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u159	You have legislation and implementation. We have ministries with three rulers and I have never heard there that more than two is a problem. This applies to two ministries with three directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u160	Your question is clear, Mr. Van Rooijen. Shall we get the Secretary of State to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u161	Mr President, this is only my third interruption today. Here we go again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u162	You've been talking for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u163	This is such a tough subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u164	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u165	Suppose, in a year's time, it turns out that the Secretary of State can't handle it, because in the House of Representatives in particular, members of parliament are, quite understandably, on top of it. That takes so much time away for the Secretary of State. Then I think: make sure that the legislation and other implementation of the real Tax Administration, with all the problems that you have brought with the whole process of change and the Investment Agenda, are well secured. Then I trust that two Secretary of State will do so in good harmony in consultation with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u166	Once again, I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen, although the word 'delicate' in my dictionary does not directly lead to anything very positive. But I can see what he's trying to say. He's right there at the same time. It is one of the largest executive services and there are real problems. All companies and all Dutch people have to deal with it from day to day. It is the largest data collector and editor in the Netherlands. We have an ambitious fiscal programme. So I agree with you that it is quite busy. Nevertheless, I think, weighing everything, that we should be careful not to turn the real management of the Tax Administration into a political job. The real management of the Tax Administration is, of course, done by the management team, which is chaired by the dg of the service. Of course, I have a political responsibility for that. On the contrary, I sometimes have the impression that we sometimes have discussions in Parliament, for example on KPIs of parts within that service, which go a long way in a political discussion about choices that are sometimes made at the level of the head of department. When I say that, people are going to say, "Don't patronize it, because there's a lot going wrong, and so you really have to steer politics. Of course it is. I heard you say that the real management of the IRS should be transferred to another State Secretary. I don't think that's necessary. I see it as my responsibility. Not only am I politically accountable for the service and the legislation, precisely that combination, but I also want to relieve the service of too much political attention, so that they can move on to things that I think are important, namely to renew the internal Control project, including culture, ICT, staff and everything that goes with it. That's just part of my responsibility. In any case, I will continue this responsibility with love and pleasure and effort and energy in the coming period and without at least feeling pitiful about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u167	Mr. Van Rooijen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u168	The Secretary of State remembers that last year, I thought at the Financial Reviews, Minister Hoekstra before we started the debate, actually following a question from one of the colleagues in the Second Chamber said that he had exploded the night before and that morning about the fact that the Tax Office, the State Secretary and therefore the Minister had not been informed about what was coming out. That's the point. My point is that, otherwise in the past...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u169	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u170	...the Tax Administration is much more subject of political discussion. That's shared there, too. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he acknowledges that the workload is very large, just because of the much greater involvement of the Lower House, which calls him to the Chamber almost weekly and sometimes daily, and that he simply doesn't have time to do the other work in a normal way. There is no ruler so heavy, so long and so much to be held accountable in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u171	Secretary of State, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u172	By the way, I do not know whether the latter is actually true. I dare to doubt that myself. Nevertheless, I am sticking to my point of view. I do not think it will help to make a second Secretary of State politically responsible for taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u173	We shall now proceed to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u174	The Minister of Justice and Security may have it even worse and heavier than this Secretary of State, but he's stuck with the top three. Then the building blocks. Last night I asked the Secretary of State in my term what he could mean for us, for politics, to make the feasibility of all these big fiscal plans more tangible over the next five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u175	The most important means I have are those execution tests. As Mr Vendrik knows, we have recently had a good habit of sending all the implementation tests that go with legislative proposals. So you can completely check on which parts have been tested: system technical, indicated, complete. You can just follow that. You can also read, for example, that it has also happened sometimes, that the outcome of an execution test is: best legislator, the way you want it can't be done, but the same policy outcome can largely be obtained in a different way. Then sometimes I also have to make the choice to do it differently than we had previously planned. The fact is that we are having a public discussion about this. The parameter letter stating how long we need for which change is also public. I'd like to send you that letter again with a great deal of love and dedication. I think I did the same last year. It indicates which processes we can adapt relatively easily, for example an existing percentage or the existing level of a discount, but also how complicated it is to add one new part and put it in a system for a while. The same applies to implementation. I think it is good to indicate that not only for you, but also for the House of Representatives, that if there are wishes, an execution test is always done. We all continue to take them seriously and we do not bump over them too easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u176	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u177	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to respond to the last block of the Secretary of State on the issue of implementation organisations and my recommendation to include the functioning of the General Administrative Service. If I sum it up correctly, the answer to that was: well, no, you don't have to. And please report to the Home Secretary. I do not think that is a satisfactory answer, because I have tried to show that the problem is that something has gone seriously wrong with the Tax Office, that no one has been held politically responsible for it and that no one has been held responsible for it. Mr Vendrik immediately, quite rightly, lifted his finger, because we are not looking here at the functioning of individual officials, but of course at the way in which those officials are appointed and appointed. This is all done by the General Administrative Service. I can't imagine that all went well. With each organization it is very important to see who appoints and who selects. I think that there has been a shift in the focus area among the top officials. The top officials are both advisors to the directors and manager of a large organization. Those are two abilities that cannot be united in every person. It has also been discussed that the Tax Administration is one of the largest implementation organisations and therefore requires a lot of management talent. I would ask the Secretary of State, along with his colleagues, to reconsider whether the role of the General Administrative Service should not be involved in the investigation of the problems relating to the implementation organisations. The second point is the capital efficiency levy. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for clarifying that the people who were wronged in 2015 and 2016 can also be covered by the general scheme. He asked for an understanding of the fact that he could not do anything about the ongoing injustice until 2022. He does not get that understanding from the Group of the Forum for Democracy because, as he himself explained, he cannot do much. All he can do is change parameters. But it can be easy. There is a parameter in the capital efficiency levy which is very easy to change, namely the level of the fiduciary yield. So we can do it at the push of a button. This does not take time and does not require complex ICT systems. You can do that right away. During the debate, I learned a great deal from the spokesmen of the other groups. So much, it's not easy to sum up, but one thing is. This is a point which I think is important and which has not been very much dealt with in the context of the Tax Plan: the Dutch autonomy. There I see a clear difference of opinion between two government groups. Mr Essers of the CDA said about international regulation that there is so much going on through the OECD that it might be wise if we had to ratify things with the OECD, which would first be submitted to Parliament. That is a direction of thinking which I very much support and which I would recommend to the government. On the other hand, I heard Mrs van Huffelen from the D66 Group say that perhaps we should lift the unanimity in the decision-making process on taxation in the European Union. This means that the D66 Group believes that other countries within the European Union can decide how taxes are to be compiled here. I would ask the government not to follow that path of thinking, even if it is the party of the Secretary of State. The other thing I have learned is that the cost of not well thought out climate policy is slowly but surely becoming clear. This is apparent first of all in the debate on storage of renewable energy. I understand from the newspaper that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would support and vote in favour of government policy and the entire Tax Plan. But apparently there is a lot of uncertainty about the storage of renewable energy. The VVD also talked about an unpredictable impact and said that that is not possible. Major damage is being done, costs are being made to the Dutch economy, human suffering is being caused and companies are going bankrupt. You can monitor that, but then the calf drowned in the pit of this part of climate policy. Another lesson on the cost of climate policy concerns the closure of coal power stations, which has just been discussed. Can biomass be used or not? The trick is to expropriate those coal plants without payment. I do not think that will work, but that there will be a big bill for the government for the costs of climate policy. Then I've heard a call to some kind of ruttenorm. In my view, this is a plea for a centrally managed economy, where the government looks at how much wages are on average rising and on that basis determines what the corporate tax rate should be. I would ask the government not to respond to that suggestion. A suggestion, which of course comes from the spiritual heirs of the Communist Party of the Netherlands, which is in favour of a guided economy. I don't think we should go back to that. In the same context, I would like to ask the government not to comment on the suggestion that so-called free childcare provision should be introduced in order to address the problems of childcare allowances. That's the direction of a state crèche, where all the little children are raised. That does not seem to me to be the right direction. I have learned these lessons from this interesting debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u178	Mr Crone has another interruption for Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u179	Free childcare does not exist, of course, because it is always paid. Child care can remain exactly the same as today, with private individuals and foundations doing so, only funding changes. For example, citizens receive a voucher, a fee or a low price. Now, if you will excuse that terrifying ideology, because I do not want to do that either, we are agreed on this. Would you like to consider such a system? Because then it's very market-compliant, there's still competition between the childcare institutions because you're choosing the best for your kids. Only the flow of funding is going to be different. And it's not more expensive on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u180	I like to think along, but I'm very afraid of state crèche-like things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u181	I call Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions of the Christian Union Group and also to his officials who have been very helpful to him for two days. We are looking back at an intensive debate where many topics have been reviewed. We can generally live well with this Tax Plan. Most groups are expected to improve purchasing power, the income differences are not getting out of hand and the middle class is getting out of hand again. I shall leave a few points to the exchange of views with the Secretary of State. The first relates to the distribution of legislation. Good thing the Secretary of State promised to spread tax laws more and better over the year. We believe that this will greatly improve the quality of the parliamentary debate. We assume that this dispersal issue will be taken seriously by the Secretary of State. Next year will be a hot year for that. Then there is the reduction in employment in relation to earners and participation in employment. Thanks also to the Secretary of State for his commitment to look, within the framework of his building block philosophy, at fiscal instruments designed to promote participation in the labour market. My suspicion, and more than that, is that the reduction in working time has become a far too blunt, far too generic incentive, which no longer relates to its original objective. A measure which, in short, costs a little more than 2 billion per year in structural terms. Here is also the tax sting in the one-earner debate. We therefore look forward very much to the way in which the Secretary of State will honour that commitment. Then the guarantee of non-digital filing of tax returns and communication with the Tax Administration. Here too, thanks for the commitment that the group of taxpayers who opt for non-electronic communication with the Tax Administration will be helped in all circumstances as well as the group that does so electronically. This is a vulnerable group that often does not have the digital skills to make their declaration electronically. We therefore very much appreciate that the position of those who do so in a non-digital way is secured. That's profit. I would also like to refer to the commitment made by the Secretary of State to GroenLinks to link the wage increase to the Vpb story. We are not thinking, as I understand it, of a one-to-one link between the real increase in wages and the Vpb, but rather of linking these two stories together and explicating them in the balance. That, too, is what I think is profiting from this debate. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, the permanent concerns surrounding the Tax Administration. My group sees a Secretary of State who is addressing the problems at the service, not under the carpet, but at the root. But we also see a secretary of state asking for time to get that cart on track. The Christian Union Group understands this question, but would like to see a Tax Service at the end of this cabinet that is stronger and more customer-friendly in the competition on the left or right. We can't keep saying year in, year out that things are still bad with the Dutch Tax Administration. That IRS is from and for all of us. There are major transitions on the agenda around energy, climate, pension, labour market and housing. That's not gonna work without a well-functioning IRS. The European Commission's Green Deal, which became known today, will lead to comprehensive national new fiscal greening legislation, and that also needs a tax administration that can handle it. Mr. Chairman. I also took the opportunity to insist on a little more self-cleaning fiscal capacity from our Parliament. The key factory that we talked about a lot about yesterday and today has, of course, just received the blessing of politics. Fortunately, in his or her wisdom today, the House of Representatives adopted a beautiful motion by the duo Bruins/Van Weyenberg, of the CU and D66, even unanimously, calling for plans for taxation to be made in which the surcharge system disappears. That's a rather revolutionary motion, which has been adopted Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u183	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u184	Mr President, I will conclude. I could feel him coming. Our debate today and yesterday also makes it clear that we really need a fundamental review of our tax system. It should all be simpler and more transparent. Unfortunately, it looks like this will be placed on the sign of the next cabinet. My group regrets that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u186	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. For my group, there was a great deal on the other side, but we discussed this at the end. I would like to come back first of all to the previous speaker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This has become both a driving force for the labour market and a means of tax redistribution. There's 23 billion in it, and over the next two or three years there'll be 2 billion. A looming error in the employment discount is that, unlike in the past, no distinction is made between the costs incurred by a person for acquiring the wage and the purchase of a wage without having a cost. In the past, it was labour costs, if you didn't have any costs, anyway. That looming error was already present, and the looming error has actually been reinforced by the fact that there has been an income-dependent reduction in that labour discount after that. Soon we will spend 23 billion, which is mainly given at the bottom of the income building. This looming error becomes even worse, because of income dependence. This means that marginal pressure is increasing further, which in turn has a discouraging effect on the very bottom of the labour market. This is a somewhat cynical dilemma. In response to questions we had asked, the Secretary of State replied that the aim of the reduction in working hours was to reduce the tax burden on labour in order to make work more attractive, thus increasing the disposable income of workers. Thus, according to the same answer, the aim of the elderly discount, albeit once again, is only to encourage purchasing power for older people. So as far as the Cabinet sees fit. You can also say it like...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u187	Mrs Faber, bilaterally please outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u188	...the purchasing power picture comes a little close to the workers, but always lower, we don't do anything, no matter what happened now. While, quite apart from that, every year, even if purchasing power is already reasonable, there will be a tremendous increase in labour costs. I'll just say it one more time: next year around €400, over the next three years €1,000, it costs 23 billion, of which 2 billion extra over the next two years. Those are the facts. The Secretary of State then defends the employment discount in the first interruption debate I had with him with: but our policy is aimed at the middle groups. Fine, that's what it takes. For the workers, I think that is a little less good. But he calls it balanced, and we do not support that. I just indicated the amounts we're talking about. Mr. Chairman. That actually brings me to an urgent request to the Secretary of State. We cannot amend it here; we had the whole Tax Plan here again three years ago through a novelle. So it's all the way back to the House of Representatives. But, as I said, we have no right of amendment. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that, in the next Tax Plan, he does indeed raise the elderly discount significantly other than the considerations that have now been made. In the debate we had, we pointed out the tax and contribution contributions of workers and the elderly, because they do not pay an AOW premium. Perhaps it is good for colleagues to remember that the AOW is not a tax, but a public insurance, so that the AOW premium is a contribution for the benefit. This has already become a bit diffuse due to the integration under Oort, but that is still the AOW premium. The argument that the elderly do not pay an AOW premium, so that they get no or only a little tax reduction, is therefore pure age discrimination within the tax building. To complete the picture, the Prime Minister will also discuss the AOW. If it is true that the elderly do not pay an AOW contribution, then it is true that the elderly are the only ones with the self-employed, but that is not very much an income-dependent care premium of almost 6% over an income limit of almost €60,000. This means that they pay a non-deductible care premium that increases with income to net €3120. The workers don't have that. It's even nicer there. That's where the boss pays the 7% care premium. That used to be a paycheck. The introduction of the Wul, the worst tax error I have experienced in my active life, led to the care premium paid by the boss becoming untaxed instead of taxed wages. This gave workers a further tax advantage, which gradually increases with higher income to more than €2000. The care premium of the elderly towards €3,000 to €3,500 is added, and the employees have even been given a tax gift of €2,000 for a few years, because their boss pays the care premium and who became untaxed. To complete the picture, my geography teacher used to say: you have to see everything widely.The workers also pay not 18% AOW premium, but only 5% to 9%. So that's less than half. For the pension premium, for the supplementary pension scheme, the workers pay 60% to 70% of the cost-covering premium, or rather the employees pay. That's the whole story. I'd like to give that to the Secretary of State. On the employment discount, I have the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the elderly discount in the 2020 Tax Plan has not been politically increased, as opposed to the policy-based increase in the employment discount in the years 2020 to 2022 to an amount of €724;]] [[Whereas the purchasing power of the elderly has been significantly lower than that of the workers for years;]] [[Calls on the Government to increase the old-age discount in the Tax Plan 2021 by the same amount that will politically increase the employment discount in the years 2020 to 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u189	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a motion on the second secretary of state. We have debated this, so I do not need to explain it here. This is identical to the motion that was tabled in the Lower House a few months ago. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a second State Secretary for Finance, one of whom is solely responsible for the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u190	Mr. Chairman. Then there is a motion on the revision of the tax system. We're running out of time. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, at the beginning of 2020, the Cabinet will provide building blocks for a better tax system;]] [[Considering that this is a technical administrative pathway that identifies policy options and reforms;]] [[Whereas independent external research has added value and is therefore necessary;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to set up a State Committee to propose a revision of the tax system;]] [[Invites the Cabinet to forward the proposals of the State Commission to both Chambers in autumn 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much to the Secretary of State, because if anyone has shown that he has resilience and flexibility, and is even very happy today, then it is this Secretary of State. Thank you for the answers. In addition to the form, the content is of course also important. Mr. Chairman. I'm walking away from my points. I have made key points of reducing the burden on business and ending our progressive tax system. As far as corporation tax is concerned, the Secretary of State has said: we will, of course, be looking at the Ruttenorm in August. Kees Vendrik talked about that, too. I am making it broader, because I assume he will indeed deal with this point, and I take it as a serious commitment. Everything is of course viewed in August, but this with a heavier accent than regular. It is therefore conceivable that it will not continue in 2021. But I'm making it wider. I am also concerned about the tax mix, which has shifted over the years. Business is paying less and less and the citizens, the wage bill, have to pay it all. That tax mix has shifted. At the same time, companies do not invest their money themselves. They give money back to the shareholders via dividend and the purchase of shares. As far as my group is concerned, in addition to Rutte's standard, it remains dominant that we do not want to reward the behaviour of companies by making an additional tariff reduction. In addition, the surrounding countries are still close to 25%, and we do not want to take the lead in the rat race of the Vpb tariffs. That is a small opening to review in August, but I hope to hear more about it from the Secretary of State later. It should be withdrawn. There has been a very generous discussion throughout the Chamber about the necessary revision of the tax system for citizens. I'm not going to repeat it all, but I said it myself: we have to think out of the box now. We no longer solve this within the tax system, whether it becomes box 4 or 5 or grant; all variants are possible. It has to be out of the box. I believe that the Secretary of State has made it clear once again that he sees and supports this, and that it must be looked at through Building Blocks and other committees. We will be happy to support him in that. I myself and the rest of the PvdA are ready to help set up the new system, starting tomorrow. But that movement is for the future. I'm looking at the current package now. That is, of course, my second main point: the distribution of income and, above all, the radical reduction of the top rate, while at the same time reducing the border. That means creating a very crooked income building. As a group, we cannot take responsibility for this. I mentioned the numbers: 1.4% for low incomes, 2.6% for normal high incomes and even more for higher incomes. Above all, this locks things up for subsequent Cabinets, because of course you're not going to change it all back. We can change the system, but at the same time we are putting the system back together and keeping income-dependent provisions in all kinds of ways, so that some of the stories about simplification will not succeed. There's no other way, unless there's more income differences. In addition to the Vpb, therefore, the income policy proposed by the cabinet is really not good for us. Mr. Chairman. Then the greening. I welcome the Secretary of State's statement that we will eventually have to move on to another broad package. As far as I am concerned, next year the whole tax package will be about this, with the main focus being on solving the climate problems. But it also plays a key role in putting compensation, purchasing power, levies, pluses and loves into a good social balance, in order to maintain support, but also to distribute it fairly. I think the Secretary of State has said some good things about this too. Otherwise, we'll have angry civilians. I can tell you that the inventor of the term "bad citizens" is now very happy as mayor in the north of the country. I've now taken on this task here. You don't get angry civilians, because all citizens understand that something is going on. Even my children say: the climate is changing; we already see that in our short lives. So almost everyone sees that, but everyone says: who pays what? What do Dutch people pay and what do foreigners pay? Who pays within the Netherlands, which companies do not and which does? That is a very political discussion, and it should be. That's a normal political discussion, and I'm happy to deal with it. But we don't brush away the problem with that. Mr. Chairman. In the context of greening, I have one more point on the import levy on waste. The sector continues to stress that they want to achieve that 0.2 megaton in a different way. In addition, we know that sooner or later this will be passed on. Either there will be less cycle development, because everything goes to the waste burners, or it will be passed on to the citizens. Of course, the costs always come down somewhere, as the Secretary of State indicated. But if it goes by cycle, it can still be not so bad. I would therefore urge the Secretary of State to wait and see what is still going on. The time for consultation has been very short. We can always ask him to do this with a repair law more neatly, because this is too rough and too fast a measure we would rather not have. The same is true of greenhouse horticulture, but I will not say too much about it now, because I have brought it up in the first period. In addition, we are now going too fast and we are pushing the sustainability investments in greenhouse horticulture right over the edge. That's nobody's intention. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the end. What am I supposed to do? I have to advise my group. We're going from a progressive to a much more degressive image. The next cabinet is closed with an enormous burden increase of 4.5 billion to be carried out. There's also a far too simple disk system we don't want any more two-Tag and a decision to lower the Vpb in 2021. As you can see, with a deterioration in the income picture, I do not think I can recommend a progressive party to vote for it. But I'm still waiting for what happens in second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u192	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mrs Van Huffelen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answers to the many questions that were asked yesterday and today and, of course, all the officials who have worked so hard to answer those questions, in my view, even in the night hours. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the commitments made by the Secretary of State on the points that are so important to our group. On the issue of marginal pressure, the Secretary of State has indicated that he continues to look seriously for ways of reducing this pressure, especially in the income segment and in the groups where people are now often working part-time, for example in health and education, in order to make it more attractive for them to work more. In particular, this will help to resolve the shortage of human resources in these sectors, while at the same time helping to make women more economically independent. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that, if there are majorities in favour of this, we could work on this in the short term and not have to wait for a new tax system. In addition, the Secretary of State has said that solutions to this problem may also be found outside taxation. My group is thinking, for example, of making childcare a basic provision, so that the supplement can possibly be abolished. We would very much like to see how this is also included in the building blocks. My group also welcomes the commitment to the overall CO levy. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is not only developing a very comprehensive package for this, but that he is also looking at how he can deal with this at European level. He also wants to include this in the building blocks for the new tax system. In addition, he promised that additional fiscal instruments could be developed and deployed if necessary to meet the 2020 climate targets. This is also very important for our group. The Secretary of State has addressed in detail the building blocks for that tax system. We are pleased that he wishes to take with him the points we have made in order to ensure that there is a system that is simple and transparent, and that is above all a system that enables us to achieve our social challenges. Thank you for that. The Secretary of State also addressed in detail the issue of tax governance or the tax governance code and the fact that he wants to work with companies and advisors on such a code to improve the tax approach and how taxes are handled and paid by companies, transparent and not actively operating on evasion. It is good to hear that the Secretary of State sees such a code as a code with a similar status to the current Corporate Governance Code. I am glad that he wants to think about what, if companies adhere to such a code, that means for the way in which the Tax Administration will deal with them in the context of enforcement. As far as D66 is concerned, this will have to be mainly based on the adage "control is good, trust is better." In replying to the questions, the Secretary of State also discussed in great detail the desirability of a human-size culture in the treatment of citizens in the Tax Administration. It is important that he has done so, but it is also quite right that he has highlighted the role we have as parliamentarians, not only with regard to the complexity of the system but also with regard to the pressure to combat fraud or otherwise to set up such a system. I think we can move towards a system that is indeed going to be based on a human measure. As far as I and our group are concerned, the overall package that has been before us over the last few days contains many good elements. I will therefore advise my group to support this proposal for the tax package, as I will call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u194	Thank you, Mrs Van Huffelen. I call Mrs Geerdink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u195	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats thanks the government, through the State Secretary, for responding to the first-term plenary session on the eight legislative proposals, which is a large amount at the same time. Many questions have been answered, including the questions on the implementation of the ATAD 2 Directive in the ATAD 2 Bill, which I would like to consider. It's a very tax-technical bill. Both the VVD Group and the CDA Group have tried, in the written preparation for this plenary debate, to get to the core of the legislative proposal through questions, case positions, questions and even more case positions. First of all, there is the need to combat abuse and not to allow fraud and tax avoidance. But if, in the implementation process, each time the choice is made for the toughest implementation variant, an anti-fraud sample comes from it with a big head on it, a Dutch monster born in Europe, which, even if there is no tax avoidance, even if there is no tax benefit and even if there is double taxation without adequate legal protection, with far-reaching documentation obligations, affects a much larger group of entrepreneurs than the original directive aims to. In that case, you can imagine that we are still considering this. We do not yet know how the other countries around us are implementing the directive. Then, for the VVD, and I am also speaking on behalf of the CDA, I have crossed the line between the purpose of the directive and the measures in the ATAD 2 legislative proposal that have disproportionate pull. Then it is time to make it clear that we should not put European headlines on Dutch legislation, because then we will damage our Dutch locational environment, including those with real activities. That's why I'm filing a joint VVD and CDA motion. We called that motion "head on, head off," despite the spirit of the Secretary of State's reply. The President shall: Mr Geerdink, Mr Essers, Mr Jorritsma-Lebbink, Mr Adriaansens, Mr De Bruijn-Wezeman and Mr Meijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ATAD 2 legislative proposal has been implemented more stringently than the corresponding European Directive, and also applies in cases where neither tax avoidance nor tax benefit is involved, in parts, i.e. the related relationship rate, the far-reaching documentation obligation without adequate legal protection and the definition of "relation to the levy";]] [[noting that this stricter implementation has a negative impact on the competitiveness of Dutch industry and thus on the Dutch locational environment;]] [[whereas Dutch anti-abuse legislation should be proportionate in order not to conflict with European law;]] [[Whereas, in general terms, it is undesirable to implement European directives with a "Dutch headline" on them;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Implementation Act 2nd EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive and to offer it by 2020, so that the headline goes off again and provides for an evaluation of the measures two years after entry into force with the aim of assessing whether the Netherlands has implemented these measures more strictly than other EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35241-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u196	Can Mrs Geerdink tell us what this means for the bill that will be put to the vote next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u197	Thanks for the question. This means that we will be voting in favour of the bill, at least I am going to advise my group to agree to it, but we are asking the Secretary of State to take a very good look at it again. You know, as I do, that we have had very short time to think about this, because this bill has been put forward with great urgency. We ask the Secretary of State to take account of everything that is happening in the countries to us whole. As you know, Germany has not yet implemented it, and so there are other countries. There will therefore be different ways of implementation. We hope and expect the motion to bring forward a slightly different proposal next year. Then we can also take into account the effects that have occurred. We do not know, but we hear that this legislation is too strict, even European law, and is likely to be challenged. There are a number of such things. We support this, because we need to implement a directive at European level, but we are concerned about the fact that we are getting our heads on it. This applies not only to this legislation, but in general to legislation coming from Europe. Let us not be more rigorous than the basis of the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u198	Mrs Geerdink says: we hear voices that. Today we heard the voice of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u199	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u200	Why are these anonymous votes more important to the VVD Group than the voice of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u201	The voice of the cabinet is as important as the voices we hear from practice. There's no difference. We are also going to vote in favour of the proposal. The only thing is that, through the Secretary of State, the government is asked to take another look at that and surprise us with a slightly different bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u202	I am a little surprised by this motion, because this was not said in the first term. In the second term, this motion was tabled by two parties. There hasn't been any talking to anyone else, so I have the idea. Is there something behind that? Then the contents. The Secretary of State has said: as the Netherlands, we must restore our position by showing that we are a little ahead. And now you're going to categorically reject it. We're looking at implementation by draft law, aren't we? Sometimes it's: well, this goes a little too far; just do the average. But here we go a little further. Why are you doing this so categorically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u203	This is categorical in the sense that, in general terms, we should indeed look closely at European directives. We've assessed this one. This has been presented and implemented. You can see from all the questions that have been asked that we have very great doubts about this in the sense that it has really been implemented more strictly than what has been laid down in Europe. We object to this now, but this is equally true of all the other legislative proposals that will be proposed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u204	After that, just for the record. Mrs Geerdink says that this applies equally to all other legislative proposals on directives that are still coming from Europe. Do I understand that the VVD Group and the CDA Group in this House are not only talking about European directives in this area that are being implemented as laws in the Netherlands? Does this even apply to them? So do the groups of VVD and CDA also say that they should not be allowed to do so when it comes to environmental legislation? If we in the Netherlands think that we should be at the forefront or that it should be stricter than what was agreed in Brussels, VVD and CDA say in this house: head off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u205	That is another interesting question, because of course I cannot see what legislation will come next. In principle, however, we will look at legislative proposals implemented from Europe in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u206	Mr Van Apeldoorn again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u207	In any case, I note that the policy advocated by the VVD and the CDA is in this house: the Netherlands will not lead the way when it comes to tax avoidance, environment and so on. So we are not going to take the lead, but we are going to go for the average of Europe, and that is good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u208	Yeah, in this case, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u209	I'm also curious to hear exactly which head to take off. This is a very general term. I am also surprised at this motion. What kind of head do you think you should take off exactly? What part of this proposal, which you are going to vote for yourself, are we going to take it off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u210	This relates to the rates of association that have been applied. They're bigger than what was needed. I am going to say this out of my mind, because I have just, of course, given the motion, and there are those things in it. It also applies, for example, to the documentation obligation, which is more stringent. It applies to the double taxation that arises. It is true that there is no adequate legal protection. There's just no counter-proofing. That kind of thing makes us think that this has been implemented more strictly than the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u211	You will continue your speech. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u212	No, I wasn't quite done yet, although I wanted a short second term, because that's all I need. I have a very explicit question that came up today, which is why I'm asking it now. That question concerns the annex to the note on the basis of the report which we received last week. That is an annex to the Bill Source Tax 2021. I stress 2021, because that is at the heart of the matter. This Annex concerns an implementing act accompanying this Bill Source Tax 2021. There was no date for introduction, but that turns out to be 1 January 2020, I heard today. So that is really very early, and that is ahead of the date of entry into force of the bill itself. This does not seem to be in line with the principle of a reliable government, which we have also discussed in the first term. I ask the State Secretary to undertake that this implementing act may enter into force at the same time as the withholding tax Act 2021 on 1 January 2021. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do so? So much for my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u213	Thank you, Mrs Geerdink. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u214	Thank you, Mr President. I had to be in three places this afternoon. I couldn't do that, which meant I was gone for a while. I thank the Secretary of State very much, of course, for answering the questions. One of the things I have missed, but perhaps that is because I was away for a while, is the response of the Secretary of State to my suggestion that the child care allowance should be passed on through child benefit and at least not through a basic provision, as everyone will understand. Mr. Chairman. You expected it, but I'll come back to the tax gap between one and two earners. I have a motion calling for a freeze on the transferability of the general tax rebate in order to avoid the need to ensure an equal purchasing power with new tricks. The President shall: Mr Schalk and Mr Van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in a series of years it has not been possible to narrow the gap in the tax burden between one and two-earners, rising to six times the tax burden for one-earner;]] [[having noted that since 2009, the transferable general tax rebate for the least-earning partner has been phased out, allowing for only 20% of the overall tax rebate to be transferred by 2020;]] [[noting that the government has been trying for a number of years to increase the purchasing power of the two groups proportionally, each year compensating for the reduction in transferability of more than 6% per year;]] [[Calls on the Government to freeze the portability of the general tax rebate as of next year at the 2020 rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u215	Mr. Chairman. Increases, levies and discounts, they have undoubtedly had their function, but they are painful for those who have no choice, for example, to opt for economic independence or who make the conscious or forced choice to provide care to their children or others around them, to provide care for them. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Frentrop, Mr Ester, Mr Essers and Mr Van Apeldoorn proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the system of surcharges, levies and discounts places a disproportionate burden on marginal incomes, particularly on low and middle incomes, and the difference in the tax burden between one and two earners has become disproportionate;]] [[Whereas this Chamber has stated once again that this gap should be reduced;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to reduce the tax gap between one and two-earners by adjusting the tax system and, where appropriate, to send this study to the Chamber in conjunction with the fiscal building blocks for the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SGP has strong objections to the Tax Measures Climate Agreement Act, as it puts some sectors in deep trouble due to the storage of renewable energy, ODE. I was somewhat surprised to hear that a consultation with the greenhouse horticulture sector is being planned. I concluded from this that there has been no consultation in the run-up to these nevertheless violent measures. The Secretary of State considered it to have been discussed at the climate tables. My group cannot simply assume that, let alone advise, the greenhouse horticulture sector at those tables has discussed these measures. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to clarify this in the second term. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister of EZK does not need to do so. I think we can avoid that if we get good answers in second term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u217	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions. This Tax Plan is actually all about the burden increases to save the climate. Less than 15 years ago then Minister Brinkhorst of D66 decided to build EUR 6 billion in new coal plants. A decade later, according to our government, CO is a global problem that seems to have to be solved by the Netherlands as a guide country. The coal-fired power stations must be shut down and billions of tax money spent on cutting forests to keep them in operation for a few more years. Crazy all around! The ODE rates are rising, excise duties and VAT seem to only be able to rise, and the classic car fleet is being extremely taxed. All this means that ordinary citizens are no longer able to keep their household budget in order. In short, we are at the beginning of a hype-induced recession in which this government is enthusiastically involved, no, I would say: enthusiastically takes the lead. Mr. Chairman. I hope that this hype has blown over before irreparable damage has been done to our economy as a whole, but I suspect that we need elections to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u219	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the officials for their comprehensive answers to our questions. I would like to make a conclusion: what is the harvest of the debate? I am positive and start with the positive points. First of all, I think it is a very important commitment from the Secretary of State, even though very little attention has been paid to it, that he has expressly confirmed my speech on the role of the inspector versus the consultant. The inspector must act as a judge and should not try as a sort of toll collector to get as much money as possible for the Tax Administration. This is a fundamental difference with the consultant, who must represent the interests of the customer as much as possible and also has his own responsibility, just as the customer must also take moral aspects with him. There is nevertheless a substantial difference between the inspector and the consultant. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has confirmed that difference, because that has actually been the thread of my speech yesterday. Fortiter in re, strong in the matter, but smooth in execution. This flexibility in implementation is reflected mainly in the role of the inspector, in addition to the fact that it is also strong in the teachings. I also welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will explicitly inform and involve Parliament in the decision-making process in the OECD. In conjunction with the G20, the OECD has become an increasingly important body in the field of charging duties. They do a lot of good work. I believe that the entire BEPS project is largely due to the work of the OECD. But of course there's also that there's no taxation without representation. However, you must involve Parliament in the judgment-making process in good time. Otherwise there will be a kind of system that you can change very little. I am also positive about what the Secretary of State said about the Vpb tariff. We're not gonna make it a party every August, he said. Of course, you have to weigh up every time, but you don't have to go back to the promises made every year, because business, like the other citizens, is entitled to keep government commitments. They should not be continually adjusted. I would also like to express my thanks for the commitment for those who are in the mass objection procedure for Box 3, that if we succeed at the European Court of Human Rights, this will apply not only for 2013 and 2014, but also for 2015 and 2016. This is important for the administrative burden. I am also pleased that the government intends to continue with the waste sector with the plan proposed by the waste sector. It is a pity that there is currently a dispute between the courts in the interim procedure, but I can still tell that there is a willingness to listen carefully to each other. We welcome that. Then there's a point of doubt, because I'm not entirely sure we understood each other correctly. This refers to the mandate disclosure, the obligation of a consultant to report cross-border advice or constructions. I asked about the risk of retroactivity. I am referring to the situation where an opinion is reported to the Tax Administration, but is not immediately responded to because of the tremendous amount of documentation that comes in. Then there is the chance that such advice will be implemented in practice for a long time. In such a case, I would still be very reluctant to apply legislation retroactively. We have to keep up with the rules of the game. It is not necessary to introduce too eagerly retroactive force. Yeah, then the downsides. You can't have everything, but it still hurts. I think we have to accept that despite all our efforts on box 3 there is no other solution than to wait until 2022. Moreover, I think that this is a great challenge, because there are still a lot of problems with this proposal. In any case, that's enough time for the Tax Administration to implement it on time. I appreciate the intensive exchange of views we have had on this issue. Mr. Chairman. There is still a hook to this tax package, which I think is very serious. This has to do with the entire ODE levy, which has considerable financial implications for a number of business sectors, including greenhouse horticulture. In this context, we think it is very important that the questions that have been asked should be answered in the second period. One of these questions is to what extent these burden agreements were part of the Climate Agreement consultation. To what extent has this sector been involved? I hope for good answers, but I would like to put forward a motion on this matter. The President shall: Mr Essers, Mr Schalk, Mr Crone, Mr Atsma, Mr Doornhof and Mr Rietkerk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of the ODE levy has a disproportionate financial impact on a number of business sectors, including greenhouse horticulture, food processing, paper and chemicals;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for reducing and possibly temporising this extreme increase in charges, to consult with these sectors and to inform the Court about the progress of these consultations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35304-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u221	Finally, Mr President, a point about strength in doctrine but flexibility in implementation, which is really lacking here and there. We have talked about prohibitive levies and about the fact that some collateral damage can arise. Let me stress once again that you have to tackle improper use, aggressive tax planning and fraud, but you should not rule out the fact that because of the complexity of this legislation there can be companies or citizens who get between ship and ship and face double taxation. The argument is that this should be mitigated as much as possible in the field of implementation. I am not calling for a change in the legislative proposals concerning ATAD 2, but I am calling on the Secretary of State, as head of the Tax Administration, to call on his service to develop policies to prevent double taxation in the implementation of the two anti-abuse directives, the suaviter in mode. I have also prepared a motion for a resolution on this. The President shall: Mr Essers, Mr Geerdink, Mr Atsma, Mr Rietkerk, Mr Doornhof, Mr Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of ATAD 1 and ATAD 2 may in practice lead to situations of double taxation without the Government's intention to provide for this;]] [[whereas Dutch anti-abuse legislation should be proportionate in order not to conflict with European law;]] [[calls on the State Secretary to instruct the Tax Administration to develop policies to avoid double taxation in the implementation of ATAD 1 and ATAD 2 as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35241-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u222	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u223	Mr President, if I may, two questions to Mr Essers. First about his previous motion. Can he tell us what the consequence of the tabling of this motion is for the vote on the bill on tax aspects of the Climate Agreement next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u224	No, I can't. That also clearly depends on the answer given by the Secretary of State in a moment's time. It also depends on what my group is going to judge. So I can't speculate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u225	Perhaps Mr Essers will be able to make a suggestion, for clarity in this debate, which the Secretary of State will at least have to say in the near future to allow him to walk out of this Chamber with a positive feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u226	Carry out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u227	I have not yet seen the motion, but only heard it, but it actually knocks over the whole bill, because everything needs to be reviewed. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u228	No, that ODE tax is part of the Climate Agreement Tax Act, but if such a part of the Climate Agreement has such draconian consequences, I wonder if that could have been the intention of those who proposed it at all. I expect that every effort will be made to examine alternatives in consultation with the sector; not only to monitor them, but also to really examine alternatives and, where possible, to eliminate the negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u229	I'd say this review, which you knew would come, has been hanging over the market for years. Everyone has seen that coming, that's been discussed at all kinds of tables, so it's pretty amazing to hear that it's almost coming out of the sky and that it's time for a few alternatives. Anyway, we're gonna hear the Secretary of State. Maybe one more question about the other motion. Mr Essers is so afraid of double taxation that he even asks the Tax Administration to develop policies to prevent that. I think the Secretary of State is doing that, but okay. Shall we agree to the contrary with the Secretary of State? If the implementation of ATAD 1 and 2 shows that it is not possible to counter the aim of avoiding charges, will the Secretary of State, with the support of the CDA's First Parliamentary Group, submit legislative proposals to fix this immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u230	There's no doubt about that. I have always started by saying that we are constantly avoiding tax and aggressive tax planning. It's old-fashioned coal policy that you make pleas for that. My plea is that you should not go to the other side either, if people get caught up in this legislation, but if possible you should act proportionately and avoid double taxation. But I'm not talking about double non-taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u231	Would Mr Essers then be prepared to amend and balance his motion so that there is a fair appeal to the Secretary of State, which calls on both sides for vigilance and information to the Parliament, both in the situation of double taxation and in the situation of failure to combat taxation, so that both sides are adequately expressed in the motion? Would he be willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u232	Well, I think that's unnecessary. There is no misunderstanding about this first aspect, on which we agree. On the second, the prevention of double taxation, the Secretary of State expressly says that he does not want it to be incorporated into legislation, because that leads to overkill and far too difficult legislation. I accept that, but I am in favour of avoiding double taxation wherever possible in the field of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u233	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I call Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u234	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the GroenLinks Group, thank the Secretary of State for the many and comprehensive answers. There's a lot I can finish with that. Through the Secretary of State also thanks to Tax Finance, who really had to work the pest pox again in order to get this package to the First Chamber on time. Speaking of hard work. It's okay, that's how I interpret the Secretary of State's answer, that Joe Stiglitz is lying on his bedside table and that the right fiscal mind is watching over him. That is what the tax system needs. I welcome this Secretary of State and the relevant legislative proposals: ATAD 2, DAC6 and the withholding tax. He makes it tangible and visible, at least to my group, that he is serious about taking the Netherlands out of that extremely painful list of countries, there are only a few, worldwide, who have always been at the forefront of the global tax avoidance paradise, which some groups in this Chamber still feel a little homesick. In any case, I am pleased to see an ally on this issue in this State Secretary, so that the Netherlands is at the forefront of the fight against it and is a serious partner in international consultations, in Europe, the OECD and otherwise, in order to put an end to this. If you want to tackle one source of food of global populism, it's this one. It is quite obvious and logical that citizens have seen this for years and rightly become very angry about it, that there is a total lack of fair share in funding public funds. It's nice to have a secretary of state here who takes that seriously. Much has changed about the future of the tax system and we are going to see a lot of building blocks this spring. My only question on this point just now did not entirely lead to an answer that I can go on with. It was actually about a long-term perspective. What can the Tax Administration and what does the Secretary of State think about this, in terms of absorbing this type of larger change? In the case of the allowances, we can get very far by abolishing them and exchanging them for, for example, free childcare or a good income-dependent care premium, as we used to have. Maybe that's easier. Other elements of a more fundamental change will have a much greater impact on the Tax Administration. I'm looking for a little guidance from this Secretary of State on how he can help political parties and political groups on their way to a new cabinet over the next two years, with many new tax proposals, to get a good sense of how those packages fall out and whether they are manageable or not. As far as I am concerned, this includes the increasing problem of cashing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u235	Mr Vendrik said, in the first term, but also in the second period, about these allowances, in particular the childcare allowance, that they should be cancelled and so on. He says: just like before, we can then introduce the income-dependent care premium. I would like to point out to him that the employer pays 7% income-dependent care premium up to the income limit of €60,000 and that the elderly and the self-employed also have a large income-dependent care premium. I know that it went wrong in the formation of the previous cabinet when at some point someone felt that an income-dependent care premium should be introduced which was already there. He was ridden by the VVD within a week, by Wiegel and me, via the Volkskrant. But we have an income-dependent care premium and we do not need a second. What do you mean, "we can introduce an income-dependent care premium like we used to"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u236	I refer briefly to the old practice of the Health Fund Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u237	Yeah, that's true. That was just for the employees. Now we have public insurance, i.e. employees plus self-employed and pensioners. This is a much larger income-dependent care premium compared to that of the Health Insurance Act at the time. Everyone's gonna get hurt. This Social Insurance Act, after 20 years of bullying, has replaced the old Health Insurance Act. But you should not say: we want to re-introduce the system of the old, the sick fund law. This would mean that employers and employees on top of that 7% income-dependent care premium would have to pay up to €60,000 again x per cent, a kind of sickness fund premium new style. That's never supposed to happen, is it? One comes at most instead of the other, but that would be a step back that you don't want either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u238	I do not quite understand what Mr Van Rooijen means. I think it's very simple. All citizens of the Netherlands are subject to compulsory insurance. They pay a nominal premium for this. We already knew in 2005, in the parliamentary debate on the basic insurance law on the other side of the coin, I have sharp reminders of the fact that a nominal premium is not necessary for the system. That has been an ideological choice and it has imposed a one-on-one obligation that we should do something for citizens who cannot cough up that nominal premium every month. And that has gotten completely out of hand. There's the birth of the care allowance. Speaking of a monster! That has been a political choice. We can go back to the model of the Sick Fund Act, to an income-dependent premium instead of that nominal premium. You can even keep a small nominal premium. We had them in the years before. It was built into the Health Fund Act. That is enough for competition between health insurance companies, if we still feel like it today. Done! No more care allowance. The only thing that is needed for this is political will. I have the feeling that this political will is increasing. What joy!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u239	It is not that simple, but it is gradually becoming clearer to me what you mean. You say that, in addition to the existing income-dependent care premium, we want to abolish the existing nominal care premium. You didn't say that before, unless I misunderstood you. You can debate that, that's true. But that is a very different discussion than wanting the income-dependent care premium of the Sick Fund Act back, because that is what the existing income-dependent care premium is already for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u240	I mean, of course, the premium that people pay and for which they may be eligible for the health care allowance. This is, of course, about the nominal premium. The care allowance is not relevant for the part paid by the employer, the income-dependent contribution. By the way, that's what they did in the days of the Sick Fund Act. At that time there was an income-dependent employee premium and an income-dependent employer's premium. That model was copied about in a basic insurance law, with the income-dependent employee premium being replaced by a nominal premium on ideological grounds. It was then forced to receive a healthcare allowance, which means that five million Dutch people have to wait for their healthcare allowance every month. That circus came purely by ideological preferences, by a wrong form of politics. The good news, Mr Van Rooijen, is that we can change that with your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u241	Mr Van Rooijen, finally. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u242	We'll talk about an elephant in the Chamber after all. We already have more. The system is now such that half of the care premium is nominal and half income-dependent. That nominal premium was a political compromise. I agree with you that that can change. If you don't want that nominal premium anymore, that means that the income-dependent care premium has to double. That has huge income consequences for anyone who then has to pay that much higher premium. The employer is not going to pay 7% but 14%, and the elderly, who are now paying 6%, are about to pay 12%. These are just as huge consequences as when we say here: cancel the surcharges and go lower the taxes. That would have very big consequences, which I will not take care of in advance. You should bear in mind the consequences of your thinking that I admire, by the way, if you ask me to support that. Those consequences are huge. That is why a political compromise has been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u243	If you raise a nominal premium and then give all citizens who are entitled an income-dependent care allowance through the Tax Office, you have a very complex income-dependent care premium. It is only extremely bureaucratic, with hundreds of people employed in the Tax Administration, who, if we had made a different political choice, could have done something really better. It is extremely complicated for citizens. That is the supplement drama that we unfortunately have to discuss today. That's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u244	I want to stop this debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u245	The models are there, the plans are there. It's all accounted for. It is now a question of political will. We are continuing the debate with the Secretary of State on the state of implementation of the Tax Administration at other times. To be honest, I wish him well, because there is a lot going on. As I said during the General Financial Reviews: Whoever has read the Donner report, I have done that. There's a lot to be done here. There is one point I did not make in the first term. I would like to mention this because the Tax Administration does not always play the right role in another role. This concerns dealing with problematic debt in the Netherlands. I know from other debates that the Secretary of State has this also on the retina, and I very much encourage him to do so. Hundreds of thousands of people in the Netherlands suffer from problematic debts, private and public. Public is not only the Tax Administration, but often also the Tax Administration. The surcharges often play a major role in this. Much more oxygen should be provided there. There too, we need a human Tax Service very much. Finally. I have made it clear that there is no automatic approach to the 2020 Tax Package when the Vpb tariff falls in 2021. I understand that the cabinet supports Prime Minister Rutte's call that it is now up to business to deliver in the form of substantial wage increases. I understand from the Secretary of State that this cabinet is taking it seriously that business has to deliver and that it will explicitly account for it in its decision-making in August next year on the plans for 2021. That is what I think is profiting from this debate. The Secretary of State will understand that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will follow this closely after today. As far as income tax is concerned, I have noted that it is not the intention, the Secretary of State says, that higher incomes will be compensated for the further fall in the marginal rate at which deductions can be paid next year. That too is good news and also that the Secretary of State understands that we will next year, when the plans for 2021 are known. Intrusive follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u246	It's true that the bell rings, because you're out of time. Someone's calling from home right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u247	Mr President, could I ask you for one more minute for a proper conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u248	Then I'm gonna stop for dinner break first. I'm fine with that, but we really need to go to dinner break. You have registered yourself for five minutes and you are now more than a minute past your time. We're even behind. I suggest we stick to the registration times a little bit. Maybe you can wrap it up. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u249	Mr President, I would like to make two very brief comments. In the second period, I would like to look forward to an answer to the questions raised earlier with regard to the CHP installations and the CO storage. I understand this isn't in the Secretary of State's wallet, but we're still asking the Cabinet here. Finally, I would like to ask for confirmation of a small question. There is an increasing market for second-hand electric cars. The cabinet will come up with a package of measures to encourage this. That's very good, but can I assume that converted cars that becomes new business in the Netherlands are part of that package? Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u250	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u251	Let us return to the point about the top rate that is now being reduced, including the limit for which it is going to apply. A bit from the progressive thinking: can we not try together that this will be reconsidered in August and that together we will get the cabinet a majority here to bring progress? At the same time, there is no need to make all these tax reductions dependent on income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u252	I'd like a brief answer, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u253	Just like the Secretary of State, Joe Stiglitz is on my bedside table, and there's a good reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u254	That sounds pretty clear to me. Thank you. Then I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u255	But will you take that to your group? Because of course you prelude to the votes that we will have next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u256	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u257	I shall now give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u258	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I understand the Secretary of State is a fan of Joseph Stiglitz's work. I would just like to remind him of Stiglitz's book entitled The Euro: How a Common Currency Threatens the Future of Europe, from 2016. I still have it in the closet. If the Secretary of State needs it, I can lend it to him. That book contains a good analysis of how the euro economy is lagging behind the rest of the world. He's got a lot of explanations for that. It is highly recommended. Mr. Chairman. Last night, in my first term, I indicated that the current tax system is no longer working properly and is far too complex. What is needed now is a drastic simplification of the system, so that people know where they are and the Tax Administration can also implement the system. As far as our group is concerned, this simplification must begin with a much higher tax reduction. This could also be a solution to the non-executable and totally out of control payment system. In the debate with the Secretary of State, I drew attention to the situation in Great Britain, where such a thorough review has already been carried out. It is a simple and transparent system with a personal allowance of 12,500 pounds, about €15,000, for every Englishman and woman, with a few simple tax brackets above it. I looked it up. The system is as follows: for the first £12,500 you don't pay taxes and then there are rates of 20%, 40% and 45%. If you make more than £100,000, you'll have to pay taxes on the £12,500 personal allowance. That is a very well thought-out system, which in fact means that a lot of British people have nothing to do with the Tax Office. In fact, they have introduced a basic income. You just have to work for it. After my discussion with the Secretary of State on this subject, I already received interesting questions from several members, including Mr Gerbrandy and others: what an interesting observation, how does the English system work? We thought that this might be a point of departure in order to at least see which elements of this system can be taken over in the Netherlands. That is why we are tabling a motion calling on the government to examine the extent to which this system can be applied in order to make the system less complex in the Netherlands. The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current tax system has become far too complex and opaque, inter alia because of the far too complex system of surcharges;]] [[noting that the marginal tax burden is far too high for many Dutch people, which does not pay enough work and more work;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands urgently needs a simpler and more transparent tax system;]] [[Whereas the United Kingdom is already much further away from making income tax less complex, including as a result of introducing a tax-free rate of £12,500 (about €15,000) for each taxpayer;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a study of the simplifications carried out in Great Britain and to evaluate the extent to which the good elements of this can be incorporated into the Dutch system, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u259	Mr. Chairman. The self-employed deduction forzzp'ers will be phased out as of 1 January 2020, without the Borstlap Committee having reached a final judgment. We are tabling a motion calling for the reduction of the self-employed to wait for the results of the Borstlap Committee, which is investigating this. The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 2020 Tax Plan provides for a multi-annual phasing-out of the self-employed deduction, starting from 1 January 2021;]] [[noting that the Borstlap Committee has not yet completed its examination of the position of self-employed persons;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the phasing-out of the self-employed and to await the final report of the Borstlap Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35302-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u260	Mr. Chairman. As regards the ODE levy, we have already indicated in the first period that the increase of hundreds of percent for greenhouse horticulture, SMEs, the cardboard industry and so on is very unbalanced. That is why we will support the Essers motion (35304, letter F) on this. I'm closing up. Unfortunately, the answer given by the Secretary of State does not give us the feeling that there is a sense of urgency about simplifying the tax system. That is why I would like to conclude by calling on the government to make more haste to take steps to make the tax system less complex. It's time for action now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u261	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u262	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answer, which was comprehensive. However, we have missed a few answers. I'm just going over a few things. First of all, other speakers have also spoken about it. I would like to comment on the top rate and why it should be reduced if necessary. Then the Secretary of State says: groups pick out one element, but you have to look at the whole package. He mentions, for example, the increase in the general tax rebate. But that is not in itself an argument for the structural reduction of the top rate. You could also increase the general tax discount and also increase the top rate, or at least not lower it. In itself, that is not an argument. I refer to what Mr Crone said about its consequences, including in the longer term. Then it's about power inequality. In my opinion, the Secretary of State has devoted only one sentence to this. I would like to invite him to say a little more about that. He simply said: it is difficult to steer, because we do not have good indicators. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with me that we are sure that power inequality will be reduced if we introduce a millionaire tax? The Secretary of State also said that it might be possible in this cabinet period if there were political majorities in the building blocks for certain results of the investigation. I hope that is also true in dealing with power inequality. I come to the Vpb and the income tax that is actually paid. I asked the Secretary of State what he thought of the falling trend from 22% to 17%. I don't think he really responded to that. And then I asked why the rate should be reduced if you broaden the base, especially if the latter happens in the context of combating tax avoidance. It is true that the still planned reduction in the high Vpb rate will largely be financed from the proceeds of the Earnings Stripping measure from ATAD 1? So this is about tax avoidance. Then it's just a reward for bad behavior, isn't it? Would the Secretary of State still be able to respond to that? I am pleased that the Secretary of State stresses that he is as ambitious as the SP in terms of withholding tax. We'd love to hold him to that. However, we do not agree with his analysis. We also rely on investigations by SOMO, Tax Justice and the CPB. Their analysis is that no more could have been done now. We welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that he will certainly address it and that new proposals will be put forward if it becomes apparent that more is needed in the coming period. We will continue to monitor this closely. Then there is a point that is important to us, the landlord tax. The argument for maintaining it has still not become clear to me. Once again, the tax was intended to put public finances in order. That is why I repeat my question. Public finances are now in order. Then why do we have to stick to this tax? The other point is whether it should not be possible to obtain an exception for the housing corporations for ATAD 1, the Earnings Stripping measure and the interest deduction. To be honest, that remains a little foggy for us. The Secretary of State says he knows it's not allowed and that it can't legally. In fact, he says that he always knew that, but that it was just as informally checked in Brussels. That has strengthened our conviction, he says. And that doesn't make them optimistic. Then my question remains: why hasn't the Secretary of State asked for a formal opinion? It strengthens us in the belief that the government is okay with it. We do not want this exception for housing corporations, and that is why we did not insist on it. The point remains that we would like more information on it. The Secretary of State says there's a legal advice. I do not know exactly what legal advice he is referring to, but we have not seen that advice. Some conclusions have been drawn on the basis of informal advice from DG Competition. That is where conclusions have been drawn which are set out in the reply. For us, it is not good to follow up on the basis of which the government and the Secretary of State have been strengthened in the view they seem to have already had. There is no paper advice from Brussels that the Secretary of State can share with us. If it's not there, he can't share it with us either. Perhaps the Secretary of State could undertake to make this clear to us by letter on the basis of which considerations the government or the Secretary of State came to this conclusion after obtaining the informal advice from the European Commission in Brussels, so his conviction has been strengthened. We prefer to see that letter before next week's vote. What is the legal analysis behind this? It is not clear to us yet. What information has been obtained from Brussels reinforced this conclusion? Can the Secretary of State reconstruct that one more time and put it together for us? That would certainly have helped us. I assume that there is no State interest here that should prevent this information from being provided. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Tax Administration. Once again, I hope that 'as soon as possible' really means'soon' and that for the many injured light comes at the end of the tunnel which has been a very long tunnel for many. We will continue to follow that closely. For the rest, I would like to endorse what Mr Ester said. It is good that the entire House of Representatives agrees that we should get rid of the supplement system. I think we have already reached a reasonable consensus on this in this House. What we don't agree on yet is what should replace it. There has just been a small debate on the income-dependent care premium, which we have been very much in favour of for years. As far as the childcare allowance is concerned, the solution is just three days of free childcare. You can call that "state crèches," as the Forum for Democracy does, but with that same logic you can also speak of state schools and more state affairs, because there are more things for free. I don't care what you call it, but it would be a very good and structural solution. We hope this will be taken. Finally, it is perhaps not a surprising conclusion that I share with my colleague Crone that it is difficult for a progressive and left-wing group to vote in favour of the Tax Plan and for the package of measures. I will not advise my group on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u263	A short question about those state crèches. Who's gonna pay for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u264	I think that has already changed enough. In the end, of course, nothing is free. It's just being brought up from the collective resources. But those surcharges are also a pump of money. That's what we all pay for. This is an alternative where, of course, it has to be paid for, but where it is provided as a service to those who need it. That's like education. We don't have a market for that either, and we don't ask for money for that either. That's just a delivery. Just as you could do for care, such as the National Health Service in the UK, where it is also free when people take care. That's a good system, too. But of course it has to be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u265	For education, we have the law on compulsory education. We'd have to make some kind of childcare bill. However, one parent needs one day of childcare, the next three, the next seven. I hope not for the children. A much simpler solution is through child support, isn't it? Then everyone can just figure out what they're doing with that money. Then buy your day care or take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u266	Yes, we are aware that Mr Schalk of the SGP Group has an alternative proposal. We think our proposal is better. In fact, we made that proposal years ago. Moreover, it is not a question of unlimited free childcare. The proposal is to offer three days a week to parents who work and need care. That's very much to be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u267	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? I am looking in particular at Mr Crone, who had not yet finished his interruption. I imagine that's annoying. Do you still want to complete your interruption? Mr Vendrik is happy to come forward, I see. If not, I'll suspend the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u268	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u269	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by once again thanking the First Chamber for its hospitality. We have just been able to enjoy a delicious Indian table, as I believe for a very, very long time, at least as long as I know it and know it, as I have been a tradition. It was very tasty and hopefully also helped to find all the good answers I had promised you for the second term. Occasionally, in the second term, a number of Members asked for further reflections. I will try not to do it for too long, because I had reflected on many of them. If there's anything I'm missing, I'll find out. I try to focus mainly on the specific questions that were still there. That's some of them. Let me start with the first question, which was actually open from the beginning, about the employment discount in the Wajong. Mr Crone asked if we could give an idea of why the employment discount for Wajangers is lower than for comparable workers who deserve the minimum wage and if we could come back to that in writing. We figured that out, and I promised I'd come back in the second term. Exactly this question has also been discussed in the Lower House when dealing with the tax plan package. In a letter to the House of Representatives, dated 13 November 2019 on the subject of "answering of questions asked during the plenary session of the Tax Plan 2020 package," I addressed this issue quite extensively. If Mr Crone thinks that is a good idea, I would refer him briefly to this answer, also because it is a rather technical explanation of the question of pay supplements and allowances. If there are any additional questions, we'll hear them in another round. I think that letter is a good answer. Take a look at pages 6 and 7 of this letter. That's the best clue I wanted to give. A number of Members have also asked questions about the exact nature of ODE. Mr Schalk asked quite specifically: has that been deliberately discussed and what are we going to do? Others, too, I think Mr Essers, asked for it. The government has always used a number of principles in the Climate Agreement: achieving the climate objectives, ensuring that it is feasible and affordable for households and ensuring a fair distribution of the burden between households and businesses. Those were actually the three basic principles. In March of this year, the Planbureau's passing on of the draft Climate Agreement showed that this is possible, but that something more had to be done. The shift of the burden in the ODE to large consumers was then discussed extensively in the subsequent negotiations on the Climate Agreement. On 13 March, the Cabinet announced that it would adjust the burden-sharing in the ODE between citizens and businesses in favour of citizens from the existing fifty-fifty to one third for citizens and two thirds for businesses, by increasing the rates for large consumers. On 28 June, the Cabinet sent the Climate Agreement to your Chamber with these changes, which allowed the energy tax for a household with an average consumption of €100 in 2020 compared to 2019. That was also included in that letter. It is true that there seems to be something from there that the slide and the fact that it was the third and fourth discs were in the Climate Agreement itself, but not the fixing of the new rates. Again, I wasn't part of that. However, as far as I have just been able to ascertain, these specific tariffs have not been included in the Climate Agreement itself. The specific rates for both the energy tax and the ODE are then included in the present Tax Plan. That's what we're talking about today. The government has taken into account the impact on the various sectors. The cabinet did not discuss all the different sectors covered by the ODE nor did it discuss the exact tariff adjustments prior to the submission of the bill. That lecture seems to be right. However, after Prinsjesdag, so after submitting the Tax Plan including the modifications in the third and fourth disc, the cabinet spoke several times with, among others, Glastuinbouw Nederland. It has been agreed that in the short term, in January, these parties will continue to table to implement the monitoring of the effects as I appointed them to the Lodges motion. The cabinet has also requested an impact test for SMEs, which KPMG is currently carrying out. We also expect the results of this in spring. This information can be taken into account in future decision-making on the ODE, i.e. on storage of renewable energy. Moreover, when drafting legislation on the extended SDE+ scheme, it was also agreed to consider whether additional options would be beneficial for greenhouse horticulture, such as daylight greenhouses and the use of residual heat. The Minister of EZK will send a letter to the House of Representatives in the spring of next year, i.e. in 2020. The Minister of LNV is also talking to the sector about the use of additional climate funding for 2020. I'm just saying this to hold the exact timeline. As far as I can tell, it is true that at the various tables there was no mention of the final charging, but of the slider and also of the fact that that was logical in the third and fourth discs. Well, that did end up in the Tax Plan. Since then, a series of measures have been taken to at least mitigate the effects which exist for a particular sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u270	Thank you for having the Secretary of State figured that out. In any case, we have a clear picture that although a process has taken place, the sectors concerned were not really able to anticipate the result that was ultimately there, because the rates were not clear. There are now. It's wonderful that there are all kinds of conversations going on right now. Only if we adopt this law will we have to deal with a fulfilled fact in which these rates are fixed. How can anything else be done about that than just saying that we should not do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u271	I just said it's not like nothing's happening. I would point out that the ministers of LNV and EZK, who, of course, have the responsibility to accompany all this in this sector, have taken action. On the fiscal side, we cannot do anything there for this year. For next year, on the other hand, we can do anything. We've talked about it before. Each tax plan offers new possibilities. We have discussions with different sectors. In particular, the SDE+ grant scheme and the other measures that I have just mentioned are currently under discussion with the greenhouse horticulture sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u272	I think it is also good to stress in this debate that it is not only logical but that everyone could also see that business is going to pay a larger share of the ODE, as it can also draw from the subsidy for the SDE++. That wasn't the case before, so that's an additional advantage for these companies, too. I assume that this will naturally play a role in the weighting of the cabinet of possible securities. I had asked the Secretary of State a specific question about wattage installations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u273	Yeah, I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u274	Will that also be reflected in the letter from Minister Wiebes he just announced? Is that also involved in the monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u275	I even wanted to do my best to say something about it now, because you appreciated it. I thought it would be useful if I did that right away. If you have any further questions as to how all these arrangements are related, I can imagine that I would refer you to the Minister of EZK and that letter. Let me do that first, and then we can see if there are any questions about that. Indeed, Mr Vendrik asked for the combination of an increase in the tax on electricity that could lead to more use of the wkk, and the subsidy for the CO storage, making it more attractive, for example, for a port of Rotterdam to store CO underground instead of supplying it to the greenhouse gardeners. The horticulture then has to fuel gas to reach the CO standards. Is this combination not detrimental to sustainability? That was, I think, the summary of his question. I am starting to point out that this is not entirely my expertise, but I have received input from my colleague from EZK and I will try to answer this question. Then I'm gonna fall back on that first part. In principle, the ODE change provides an incentive to make energy consumption more sustainable by increasing the burden on energy consumption. I think we all agree that that's the point. In the case of undertakings using the installations of the watts to produce electricity, there is a full tax exemption for the gas input. That is what I said in the first term. This can therefore create an incentive to produce more electricity via the wattage. But it is precisely in the climate agreement at the agricultural table that it was explicitly agreed that there would be less use of watts. That's, like, an agreement that the other side values. The cabinet would therefore have called the Lodders' motion here a finger on the wrist to monitor, in order to take into account the effects of the change in this ODE scheme on the sustainability of the sectors where these watts may be used. So we must continue to monitor whether we are achieving what we want. Of course, we have goals that we need to deliver. With regard to the possible subsidy on CO storage, the following shall apply. The Minister of EZK, together with his colleague from LNV, is still considering at this stage whether the capture and storage of the so-called CCS, which was an important part of the industrial table, can be included in the SDE+ scheme. That is exactly what Mr Vendrik has just told us. In the past, the SDE+ scheme was not open to greenhouse horticulture. Now they're looking at how to open it up. That has not yet come to an end, because this consultation is still going on. The Climate Agreement has agreed that the inclusion of CO capture and utilisation in greenhouse horticulture, for example, or CCS, will be further investigated in the SDE+ scheme. I just said that. Soon Mr Wiebes will send you a letter on the broadening of the SDE+ scheme and whether it has succeeded. He probably also writes on behalf of his colleague from LNV about the outcome of that discussion. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u276	Thank you for the detailed explanation. Based on what I've heard, I recognize that's how the trials are going. We cannot blame each other, but we still have the problem that the rates are about to be fixed and they have to be paid. There are serious analyses that show that a number of companies simply go under, or go from plus to minus in the profit and loss account. I am looking mainly at the colleagues, but I think it is worth seeing if we can speed this up a little within a week. We will not vote on that motion for a resolution until a week from now. The Minister of EZK or perhaps the Minister of LNV will still have to consult with the sector. A lot often happens in a week, especially when it becomes a bit liquid under pressure. Your colleague is more concerned with this than you are. This is also a question to ourselves. I would actually like a letter or something else, even if it comes the night before the vote, in which we are told what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u277	I can certainly put the request for that letter to my colleagues. In the first instance, I think that will be the Minister of EZK. At the same time, we must not create the image that I said on his behalf that nothing is happening at all. It's being checked to see if the effects are that large. The Lodders motion has also been adopted. Some of the effects are of course meant. There are higher costs. Some of you are saying today that some of these effects seem to be very large. Was that supposed to happen? I said that we are going to examine a number of issues in order to be able to implement measures on the subsidy side by 2020. On the fiscal side, I do not think it is possible to take any new measures in this year. That is actually what we are establishing here today. I do not rule out the possibility of measures starting next year. If you think it will help to get a letter that summarises what I am saying here again, I would like to pass on that request, together with the request to send it in good time because you still have to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u278	Yeah, because that could help us get an even more complete picture. Of course, this will also give the sector a chance to respond to this in the next few days. I think that can then prove whether the problem is too big to bite through, or whether we should say: it has to be different. Otherwise we'll make a decision with a little fog. Again, it happened fast for everyone. I'd like to ask for a letter like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u279	Mr. Essers first? Or Mr. Vendrik? Mr Essers on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u280	Yeah, at the same time. We all note that pricing has not been part of the consultations and negotiations on the Climate Agreement. All the more reason to enter into negotiations with the sector on pricing. That's what I hear the Secretary of State say. I have one more pressing question. If there is indeed an increase in charges in the order of magnitude mentioned, namely €130,000 or 177% increase, does the Secretary of State agree with us that these increases are disproportionate? Is it then on the way of the cabinet to examine whether there are possibilities to avoid and possibly temporalise the increase in charges? If you want to get a climate agreement through, then acceptance is incredibly important. You don't create that with these kinds of measures, which are really obvious to everyone that they go too far. I honestly think the Secretary of State is going to carry out the motion I tabled. I'm sure the Secretary of State will say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u281	I'll respond to the motions in a moment. As far as the first is concerned, I think it is too soon for Mr Essers to say that we can see that it has happened. I just said I wasn't there. Maybe you don't either. As far as I can tell, that has not been discussed. However, I do not rule out the possibility that someone has actually spoken about it. I thought the word "fix" was a little spicy. The fact that the effects are large and that there should be mitigation measures if you think they are too big is part of the motions. I'll respond to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u282	After what Mr Essers has said, I hasten to say that the whole climate agreement was in danger of losing acceptance on one point. That is the impression that the industry of the Netherlands was in the process of billing the citizens. I mean, that was really bad for the support. That's happily fixed. This slide in the ODE extends to that. That's worth a lot to support. I encourage the Cabinet not to deviate from that path. That doesn't change the fact that you have to look closely at effects. That's what we're gonna hear about this spring. Do I understand correctly that the design of the ODE tariff in the third and fourth electricity disc in greenhouse horticulture might be counterproductive? The agreement in the Climate Agreement was that watts should actually be taken out of production. Does the additional tariff on electricity combined with the exemption for gas encourage the gardeners to put old plants back into operation? Will the Minister's letter this spring give us more information on whether this is real, or whether it is real, and if so, what will happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u283	That's exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u284	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u285	I have another question for the Secretary of State. You spoke about the Lodders motion on this subject, which was adopted in the House of Representatives. How does the Secretary of State view this motion in relation to the motion of the CDA before it? It seems that these motions have a similar text. Maybe you can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u286	Mrs Lodder's motion called for particular attention to be paid to the effects of the change in the ODE on the sustainability of sectors where, for example, watts were used. That, I think, is Mr Vendrik's point. The motion also asked for an insight into whether those effects were indeed there. I shall now come to the comments of the motions, but I have the impression that the motion that has now been tabled goes a little further than the motion that has been tabled in the House of Representatives, in particular with regard to the use of alternatives and policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u287	I have one short question about CO storage and the renewed SDE++ that will open up to that later. I ask the Secretary of State if I can assume that the cabinet also thinks that re-use of CO, so CCU, is actually preferable to storage. Can I assume that the new regulation will also be set up on that? This prevents, for example, existing projects in Rotterdam and surroundings, where CO is re-used by horticultural owners, from being maintained and that business case is not undermined by subsidies for storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u288	Here we come back to the point that Mr Vendrik asks me about the exact weighting between CCS and CCUS in Rotterdam. I think this is a little further away from the ODE scheme as such. I think they're very interesting questions. I have just indicated that the Climate Agreement has agreed that the inclusion of CO capture and utilisation in greenhouse horticulture in the SDE+ scheme will be further investigated. We're talking about CCUS. If Mr Vendrik asks if he can assume anything, the answer is no. This is being examined further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u289	I get that. I don't want to make it very big, but it's nice anyway. This certainly has a relation with the previous point: the accidental activation of wkk-installations. This means that the gardeners will produce their own CO again, while the supply from Rotterdam will then be put under the ground. Then we'll do something crazy. That's my point. Is that line there's a relationship? I would like the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to explicitly address this in his letter to offer the SDE++ with the opening-up to CCS projects. That's a practical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u290	That's a good question. I just said I think it's okay if he takes this. I'm gonna say that again: I think it's okay if he brings this. I will also pass this on to Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u291	I would like to go back to the previous point, because I have a feeling that we are going to ask society about at least. Suppose, for example, greenhouse horticulture is severely affected by this legislation. Then we should not think that we have achieved business, because then the products will be so expensive that the citizens will also pay for them. I think it works that simple. So my question is how to prevent that. It is said that in the spring they will be talked about how to do it afterwards. In the meantime, they are forced to make very high costs and perhaps choose the route that Mr Vendrik does not want, namely to use another energy source.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u292	I am trying to distill the question from here, because I think we have just discussed this point. Perhaps Mr Schalk can help me one more time by saying what his supplementary question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u293	The question is, in the end, whether we really think that this measure will only affect business, whether it will affect citizens and whether we will not lose acceptance on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u294	Now I get it. It is not the case that this measure is directed against greenhouse growers. It is not the case that this measure is directed against other groups that use a lot of energy and have so far paid little for it. The polluter pays, that is one of the principles that I put forward at the beginning. That's gonna be important. Companies that now have a lot of emissions and pay little for them will probably get the highest bill. We agreed at the beginning that the distribution of the ODE funds, which are intended to pay the SDE subsidies, was fifty-fifty, half for business and half for citizens. We've adapted that relationship. We have said that is the support Mr Vendrik is also talking about, that we want it to be different, that is, a third to two thirds. If you want to do that in these ODE rates, you can only do that by increasing the third and fourth disks. There is no other option, because under the first and the second disc are also the families. Well, that doesn't do you much good. Then the question is what exactly was clear about the height of that slider in the third disk part and the fourth disk part. I have not been able to check this out a moment ago. I find the word 'fix' to be a bit sharp, or rather implicit agreements have been made on it at a table. I assume that this is not the case, except that it was clear that this slide to a third at two thirds could not mean that there would be an increase in the third and also in that fourth disc for people who consume a lot. The greenhouse growers are big consumers. So I think it's pretty strong they didn't see that coming at all. I'm just saying we didn't have the exact size of the tariffs. However, that is what has been chosen. Other groups that cannot simply avoid this consumption, such as large hospitals, will actually pay a bill. If, although we want to maintain that polluter pays principle, there is a very disproportionate outcome in what you pay, with all the consequences for, for example, the price of the product you make, it is the question of whether you should look at whether you can do something on the subsidy side. I have just mentioned three or four measures under consideration. I just don't have a solution yet, because that's what we're talking about right now. Can the SDE+ scheme be used? Is there anything in the MIA measures that might help the greenhouse growers? In short, there's something on that side. I'm just not entirely the owner of that. I continue to believe that the principle that the polluter pays is not entirely unjustified because of the increase in the third and fourth discs. At the same time, I also agree with everyone who says that if those effects turn out to be very crooked, that may not be what you want and that you can lose support with them. Then you must also be prepared to take compensatory measures. I have already said that I believe they are currently being discussed with the sector. Action is being taken on this. I cannot say much more than that now, except that I think it would be wise for the Minister of Economic Affairs to write you a letter before you vote on the way in which this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u295	Mr President, I address the Secretary of State through you. We have now discussed a day and a half how to reduce the complexity of the tax system, how to simplify and make things more transparent. Do I hear the Secretary of State say: we're going to raise the ODE rates and charge extra charges in greenhouse horticulture, and we're going to compensate for that again with a subsidy? What the hell are we doing? We're trying to make things less complicated, aren't we? So now we are going to impose burdens on the one hand and then pump them back with a subsidy. That's the wrong direction, isn't it? We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u296	Do I understand that Mr Otten says: whatever these effects are, keep the system simple, increase the ODE and do nothing with subsidies? Is that how I'm supposed to understand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u297	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u298	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u299	You've got that all wrong. I have here the charts of the ODE's increases. Those rates are way too high. For example, for electricity, I see that large consumers only go from €0.03 to €0.04, i.e. an increase of 33%, and that the increase for SMEs is 177%. Then I say: it is clear that when you sit at the climate table, your cost is bought and the people who are not there are allowed to pay the bill. My request is that I have also indicated this in my first and second term to go back to the drawing table and to ensure that that ODE is reduced. There are companies I've seen Rabo's study that just have to give up €400,000 margin that are SMEs, hey, because of these drastic increases. Those increases are just way too drastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u300	I have just mentioned the SME test of the Ministry of EZK in the list of measures I mentioned. I don't know if it is. I'm not saying it's one or the other. That's under investigation. I do not find it strange to take the polluter-pays principle as a starting point, including in taxation. I continue to think that this is a good starting point, better than the principles we sometimes apply in the current system. So there's a price to that, that's okay. However, it may be that, for example, because a sector that happens at once has not been able to adapt to it and does not yet have the right techniques. That is a bit in line with what Mr Crone said, namely that ultimately the main price is the most important thing and that you will see that all the techniques take care of that. That's what I'm really working on. At the same time, I also use the principle of allocating a third to two thirds for the SDE scheme, which helps to pay for sustainability. I'm in favour of that, too. I think it is wise that there should be a greater share paid by the business community than was agreed in an earlier instance, namely that fifty-fifty. Then don't come up with anything other than an increase in the third and fourth disk of the ODE. If you think that, in the end, the outcome is too unfair for certain groups, a sector or a particular company, I also understand why Mr Otten does not think that you are looking for something. You already have subsidies for certain companies to apply new technologies. Then you can see if you can't use it for those groups either. I thought that was a fair discussion. I am just saying that we are now on the tax side and my colleagues from EZK and LNV are working hard on these two other arrangements, in consultation with the sectors. A motion has been tabled on this point and I will comment on it in a moment. That'll probably be at the end. Let me continue with other questions that have been asked. First of all, the date of entry into force of the amendment to Implementing Decision WIB. I hope I'm saying it right. That was a question from Mrs Geerdink. I don't see her right now. She asked if I could promise that last week's draft amendment of the implementing decision WIB will enter into force on 1-1-2021. I have a rather long answer to that, but that ends with: yes, I can promise. I suspect that's also the answer she hoped for or was waiting for, so I might be able to leave out that intermediate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u301	Good idea from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u302	That's what I thought. Then we have a question from Mr Vendrik about the absorption capacity of the Tax Administration when it comes to making major changes, such as those building blocks. We've actually had a little discussion about that. It's just a justified point. There should be detailed attention each time per detailed proposal. Not only for a plan that has been devised, we are going to consider whether an execution test is necessary. Even if those laws are real, we have to keep looking at them. We must also continue to look at the accumulation of measures. If we do that, I think that if we do that smartly and in the right order, it's best possible to still do something about the absorption capacity. He also had a distracted issue about the silverability. I say to Mr Vendrik that in the building blocks I will also pay attention to the cashability of all tax rebates. That's the derivative question that was behind it, and I'd like to tell him that. For all follow-up routes and arrangements, including the building blocks, there will be a firm execution test. We shall follow it fully and accept it as true. Then Mr Vendrik had questions about car taxes and also about the purchase of second-hand electric cars. He had a very specific question about that. It is true that the cabinet is currently working on a purchase subsidy for second-hand cars. I think it's also important that we do that. His specific question was whether that subsidy also applied to converted cars, so say second-hand cars that were not electric at first and later. I don't have the answer to that one, two, three ready. I know that this procurement scheme is now being worked on, and I also know that my colleague for the Environment and Living is doing so. In any case, I will strongly recommend that you include your suggestion, because I can imagine that this has exactly the same objective, namely electric driving for non-new cars and thus allowing electric driving for people who have a less full wallet. I think that's a good idea. I just have no idea if you can control that and how that works, but I will pass this, with a positive heart, on to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u303	The Secretary of State just said that in the building block activity, i.e. in the proposals, policy options and reforms considered in that process, he also presents the implementation test. Do I now understand that there will be an implementation test on the building blocks, so the plans for reform, or will that only happen with the draft laws? I do not think it is unwise for this to happen at an early stage, but that is new. So far, we have implementation tests on legislative proposals. I now understand from the Secretary of State that he wants to apply execution tests at an earlier stage. That seems very sensible to me, because then things that are not possible can already be ecarted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u304	The good thing is that Mr Van Rooijen and I are totally in agreement on this. It's actually like a new coalition agreement and formation plans. If, for example, the system of the current levy is changed, we are roughly looking at whether this can be done. At the same time, the formal implementation test only comes with the real legislation. So we're actually doing both. For example, also when it comes to the measures we have dealt with at all tables in the Climate Agreement. We have said in advance: best climate tables, there are a number of principles that you must take into account. If you do sister and all that, then you can probably do it quickly. If you don't take that into account, it'll take more time. So it already helps to prepare the ideas. With the building blocks we can certainly give some kind of clue. But in the end, we do the real execution test when filing the bill, because the devil is in the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u305	Thank you for this answer, but what is the status of a first exploration of the execution test? Can it give some kind of orange to red light? Or is it just a warning signal: know that it is a problem, but continue for the time being? Of course, that's a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u306	Well, that depends a little bit. Suppose someone comes up with a very good idea that just misses something in the execution, I say: could you change that idea so that we can do it? So: make sure you do this and this and this, because then you can keep a part of the idea. Sometimes it's also clear that it's a dead end and it's not gonna work. That's gonna be a red light. But it's really helping. Legislation was made in The Hague very early after the policy columns were finished. So they had all come up with a fantastic policy that allowed the legislators to try to make chocolate out of. The same applies to the tax legislators. One of the things that we have adapted in the 1990s and the beginning of this century is that we allow legislators to watch when the policy proposals come out. This is extremely important, because it prevents the very policy-making Netherlands from falling in love with a measure that is almost impossible to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u307	Mr. Van Rooijen, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u308	Can I ask the Secretary of State if he can do some sort of preliminary execution test in the presentation of the building blocks in relation to the proposals and the themes proposed and identified?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u309	The implementation and simplification of the system is even part of the building blocks, so it is almost impossible for us to go back on this in detail in the report. Mr Van Apeldoorn then had a number of questions, but the most important one was the housing corporations and the Earnings Stripping measure. He threatened to repeat the arguments, where we have already explained in writing everything: where are we and why have we done our informal thinking, as we have done? But if Mr Van Apeldoorn is very pleased to receive another letter about that, we will do so with love. I would add that I do not know whether this leads to a lot of new insights, but if it helps to get back to the history of the Vpb obligation, the SGEIs and other matters, then I would like to give my word on that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u310	Thank you for the commitment. But it is not the Vpb obligation as such, but specifically the question of whether an exception would be possible to ATAD 1. What matters to me is that this letter contains more information than we have received so far, at least in the last reply, which states: we have checked it in Brussels and we have been strengthened in our beliefs. What is the argument on the basis of which the government came to that conclusion? If you can get that straight one more time, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u311	Sure. I will. It is true that once we have reached the edges of the collection of information, it is very difficult to invent new information. I won't, but I think this letter can help a lot. I am going to answer a question from Mr Essers, who wanted to know for sure once again that there will be retroactive restraint in the general sense. He knows that we, as legislators, are really in favour of this. So yes at this point. Specifically, this was one of the measures we were talking about. Nothing has changed at this point. We adhere to the instructions of the Council of State and are always very cautious with retroactive effect in legislation. Finally, a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn on effective tax rates. He spoke of a falling trend. Again, I have indicated several times in the past that it is complicated to calculate a reliable effective rate per country. I have also given several examples of this. The effective rate varies per company and per year. So it is also very important which years you use when you calculate rates. For example, the effective rate figures of the CBS are strongly influenced by the years in which there were losses and by the question of whether, for example, one was able to make loss relief. Then the system is the same, but the effective pressure drops in that year because you still had losses. It is therefore important to consider whether the same period, but postponed for a year, gives the same result. The cabinet awaits the further publications of the CBS and also of the CBS which is important to the opinion of the Committee on Taxation multinationals, before agreeing with Mr Van Apeldoorn's statement that there is a falling trend with regard to effective rates in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u312	Does the Secretary of State now say that he is moving away from the CBS figure that there has been a reduction in the effective tax burden for large companies from 22% to 17.1%? That's just what the CBS report says. He says he doesn't know about that now, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u313	No, I didn't say that. I didn't say it either because Mr Van Apeldoorn says it now. It depends on, for example, whether you take losses. If the CBS uses a certain period of time, for example just after a period in which it went economically bad and companies suffered a lot of losses, then you will logically see that in the years in which you measure the effective pressure after the loss years, it is always low with exactly the same system. That is one of the problems of effective pressure that we are trying to share with each other for three years. The effective pressure with the exact same system varies per company per year. That depends, for example, on whether your loss is going to pay off. So if the CBS takes a period of time that starts just after a period of many business losses, then what comes out depends on whether or not they have allowed loss relief to be applied in business results; the difference between tax profits and business profits. I'm not saying they calculated something wrong, I'm just saying you can always figure out what you put in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u314	It is a period of ten years. There are certainly years of profit in between, because I think this has been about the last ten years. I would like to see that clarified once more. Can the Secretary of State come back to this another time, for example in the form of a comment on the CBS figures? Because I believe that the interpretation of the CBS is indeed a downward trend. Many experts have also said that there is really no other way than that this is partly due to tax avoidance. So we have a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u315	Let us not trivialize this: if there is a problem with tax avoidance, namely that it has increased considerably over a certain period of time, then we also have work to do, especially with the agenda we have. I think we are in complete agreement on that. I'm just gonna get a little stuck with it, maybe that's because of the academic content of this discussion, that if you just look at the effective pressure, you don't always measure what you want to know. With the underlying policy idea that, if there is more tax avoidance, it is up to us to do something about it, I fully agree. One of the elements that is going to help is that we have asked the Committee on International Taxation, the Ter Haar Committee, to look into this. We have also asked the CBS whether this same calculation can be done for other periods, so that we can get a better picture. I would like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that I would like to stand still on this for a little longer, because I hope that sometime I will convince him that my objectives are not very different from his, only that I take more account of things than an ultimate focus on only effective pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u316	Nor am I to blame for any academic disinterest, so I have also read that from the CBS. What you say is true, but there is indeed a long-standing trend. But it is also consistent with the other studies on our country, IMF and OECD, that profits on capital income are falling dramatically in the tax mix. The CPB says the same thing about the net AIQ. That's my main point. I am not concerned with which individual company the effective rate is equal to the nominal rate, but with the trend of declining profits from profits, income and dividends.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u317	This is gonna be very precise. But, of course, there is a difference between the measurements of the effective pressure we have just been talking about and, for example, whether capital is taxed less than the labour factor. That's another discussion. It is IMF, as I know, has never published a trend on effective pressure in European countries. I also think that the IMF is not very well equipped for this either. They will be able to raise the issue of tax competition, and they will also be able to say something about capital flows. By the way, we have now asked ourselves this through DNB. Having a lot of letterbox companies with a balance sheet total of more than 4,000 billion in the Netherlands, where all flows are taxed, is something that IMF and other international institutions have written quite a lot about. But that really is a different point than measuring or not measuring the effective pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u318	That's it, but it's the other side of the same coin. From your own figures: the collective burden pressure has risen to 38, and more. Of this 2.7% increase, 70% is on labour income, which is a disproportionate proportion to the tax revenue of profits and assets. You warned us just now about these figures: we are letting the tax on labour go far too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u319	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u320	But they're the same things. That is why I support you in your fight against tax evasion, but as a reward, I would not lower the vpb on top of that. But that is the political conclusion. But the analysis checks out, everybody says it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u321	I'm holding on to my point that two things that may get to each other right now are running right through each other. For example, when it comes to letterbox companies or real companies in the Netherlands, the effective pressure between these companies is sometimes very different. Suppose you make all kinds of profits in the Netherlands and you channel them all away to another country, then you have a low effective pressure. While a real company in the Netherlands might just keep all its profits here, has no losses to offset, neither foreign either, and has a higher effective pressure. Exactly on that point Mr Van Apeldoorn and I often have such a discussion, because I say: there is not one effective pressure to calculate for a country. That depends, for example, on whether you have a lot of flow or not. Anyway, I think we're gonna talk about this another time, hopefully on the basis of the Ter Haar Committee. There will naturally come a time when we are in complete agreement; I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u322	Delicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u323	I'll get to the motions now. I'll treat them, if it pleases you, Mr. Chairman, in the order in which they were filed. That is not entirely on the subject of the bill, but I shall mention the letter. Maybe that'll make it the easiest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u324	That pleases me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u325	Fine. Let me start with 35302, letter I of 50PLUS on that old age discount. Mr Van Rooijen will not be entirely surprised if I give the verdict 'dissuade'. We've talked about this before. I think it is important to look again next year at the purchasing power picture and then to clarify again what measures are most appropriate to achieve that balanced purchasing power picture. I do not think it would be wise to anticipate this by means of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u326	If the Secretary of State advises the motion now, while we ask for something for next year, that actually means that his basic attitude is not positive, but negative. I'd like to know that for our final assessment of the bill. I've already indicated that this is my eighth tax plan since 1974. I've never voted against it, but if the Secretary of State is already telling this motion about something I'm asking for next year's Tax Plan, I'll know what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u327	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u328	Surely it is very strange that you are now not recommending a motion that only asks for a balanced income policy in a next tax plan, in which the elderly also get part of the lighting space that all Dutch people get? Surely we are not pariahs in this country, with instantly 3.5 million elderly people and voters? We're not pariahs and second-class citizens, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u329	There really isn't anyone who thinks that and says that. There is a motion for a resolution calling on the government to reduce the old-age discount by the same amount as the labour discount next year. So no matter what happens next year, you say, I have to cut that same amount. I think that is an unwise starting point. In that respect, this game is never to be won. You're saying I don't have a positive basic attitude. Any other motion that had said the same thing and had asked to take the next purchasing power measure for next year is unwise to me. 'Cause we don't know what this year's gonna bring us. So that has nothing to do with a negative basic attitude, because then I lose this contest to get the support of 50PLUS anyway. The point is that I will always discourage such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u330	I was clear in the motion. But we both know that, if there is reflection next year, given the text of the motion, it can also be acted in the spirit. Then you shouldn't say: it says €740, so I won't do it. If we can prepare that discussion now, we'll figure it out. But if you say: I read the motion literally and so I do nothing, then I say: take the spirit and the spirit of the motion with me. That's what we talked about this afternoon. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u331	The motion really goes beyond that. Indeed, it mentions an amount of €724 for the next three years and then considers that older people are significantly lagging behind in their purchasing power and that there is also a link between the old people's discount in Tax Plan 2021 by the same amount as a reduction in employment that is politically increased. Apart from the amount, which I don't want to look at, I think a link before you know what this year brings you is unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u332	Recognizes the Secretary of State and wants to do so. Take it to the Cabinet Council that the CBS has very recently indicated that the purchasing power of the elderly with a pension of, mind you, €10,000, that is a total income of 20 grand, that is minimum wage has fallen by 12%? If you take that with you, you know what spirit to act in. The CBS figures say: people with a €10,000 supplementary pension next to their AOW, so a total income of €20,000 is the bottom of society, which is the absolute minimum amount of pension. That is what my motion states: the purchasing power of the elderly has long been lagging behind, and largely behind. If you take that with you in that spirit, maybe we'll get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u333	I'll certainly take it with me in that spirit. Then I have a second motion from Mr Van Rooijen. It invites the government to appoint a second Secretary of State. Well, we've already talked about that in detail twice, and we did so last year. Again, I feel a lot of warmth in this motion, from the intentions behind it. Nevertheless, as Mr Van Rooijen knows, I do not think it is wise to do so. So for that reason, too, I will discourage this motion. Then there is a third motion, with letter K, of the same bill, also of the member Van Rooijen. The motion calls on us to set up a state committee to propose the revision of the tax system. I know that Mr Van Rooijen believes that such a state committee is really important; we have also exchanged this with each other before. But the way we're proposing that now, with that building block committee bringing in things from all sides that don't ask for political judgment but really asking for something to do as many facts as possible with the stories, really gets us where we need to be. Setting up an additional state committee is not gonna speed things up; it's only gonna slow things down. I understand the thought behind this, but I think this is really an unwise motion. Mr Van Rooijen also knows that I will discourage her for that reason. I believe that what we are doing now is faster and more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u334	You say it's an unwise motion. As a rule, I do not submit it, but the exception seems to confirm the rule. You say that there will be a technical administrative process to present these proposals. What is wrong with having a technical and administrative exercise, which is no more than that, also by having an external, independent committee look at how to proceed with the tax system? That would be an ideal combination, administratively-technically, especially from the Ministry of Finance, I know something about that, with you, but also with an external, independent committee. We have had the debate and the motion on the interest rate again this afternoon. What is against the fact that external experts are, of course, watching this? By the way, I share the warm feeling you had on the second motion, on the second Secretary of State. May I give you that for the first motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u335	Yeah, you can. With regard to the third motion, it is not the case that there are only officials in the present committee. In that committee we also ask for a great deal of thinking from all kinds of professors. They've given presentations about that, too. We ask them to look specifically at certain parts. So I really think that we involve experts in the widest possible way, in implementation, in legislation and in advice practice. This applies to professors, but also the administrative services are all involved in this preparation of potentially major revisions. I really do not think that a state committee would add much more to that. That would be very good. Of course, we have been working on this committee for quite a few months. I'd almost say we're approaching the last quarter. So again, I would almost say to Mr Van Rooijen: shall we first see what comes out of this? If he finds the result extremely disappointing, I can imagine that he will come again and say: well, this was nothing; let's try a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u336	Then I'll hold the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u337	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u338	At the request of Mr Van Rooijen, I propose that his motion (35302, letter K) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u339	Then I go to the motion with letter F (35241). You can find anything from the title. It's "Keep on it, head off." However, the motion is about taxation; let us not lose sight of that. It is true that this motion surprised me in a way, because we have shared a large part of these parts with each other before, in written consultation. I also have to say that I really do not agree with most of the observations made in the first and second bullet and the recital in the third. I often find them wrong, too. I would like to explain this further, because I think it is important for your Chamber to hear it too. The fact that the rate of association would be more stringent than the European directive is incorrect. We really don't think that's right. With regard to the far-reaching documentation obligation, we have indicated why it is not so far-reaching. We have also indicated a lot of possibilities why that would be much more limited. We also believe that, without this documentation requirement, it is actually impossible for us to implement this law properly. So I do not agree with that consideration either. We have also discussed the definition of 'involvement in the levy' with the Chamber before. I have already promised your Chamber to return to the Commission with that point, which is really a relevant point, because we, as the Netherlands, cannot change it on our own. I therefore find the first of the first three recitals to the observations to be really incorrect. The second is about something that is necessary for implementation, and on the third point that is being made, we have already promised your Chamber that we will do something about it. This is related to the first bullet. Then there is the second bullet of the observations. This assumes that this stricter implementation has a negative impact on the competitiveness of Dutch industry and thus on the Dutch locational environment. I'll fight that. As I have just indicated, I do not think that it will continue on the path we have taken, addressing the sharpest aspects of tax avoidance, having a negative impact on our reputation and therefore on the Dutch climate of establishment. So I do not agree with this statement either. Mr. Chairman. I also do not agree with the consideration that the Dutch anti-abuse legislation would be contrary to European law, as this is mainly meant in the third bullet. It's not. In this regard too, I find it difficult to find myself in that regard. Next it remains somewhat unclear for me to say something about the "Dutch headline on it" in a general sense without being clear what that is. Maybe that's what we need for our execution. The motion calls on the government to offer the law next year, namely in 2020, so that the head goes off again, and then to evaluate whether that was in line with the others. If the motion were to ask "can we evaluate whether we are doing more stringently than the countries around us?', I could have said: it might be good to look at that. We have our own national policy, where I am really behind the implementation of both ATAD legislative proposals. This also applies to ATAD 2. At the same time, I would have thought of a motion asking whether we would not be completely out of line with other European countries: okay, then we can talk about that. But this one really goes a long way. It also goes against government policy if we have to withdraw from the area of ATAD 2, for example because it is not feasible. I'd think that was a huge waste. It is clear, therefore, that for various reasons, even for a large number of reasons, I must discourage this motion. Then I'll get to the next motion. That is Mr Schalk's motion with letter L (35302). It's about the freezing of the general tax rebate. Again, I think that you should not rule out anything and that in August you can look again at whether or not something fits into a balanced purchasing power picture or does enough to address the gap between one and two earners. Actually, I think that's all very sensible. But here the government is really being asked to freeze it, no matter what. That's a bit like the motion we discussed earlier. I don't think that's wise in advance. That is why I will not recommend this motion, apart from the cover, which of course would have had to be dealt with in the motion. Then I come to the motion with letter M (35302). It is also Mr Schalk's and many others'. This motion calls for the system of surcharges, levies and discounts to look again at marginal pressure and also to look at whether we can further reduce the tax gap by adjusting the tax system and put it back into an investigation, possibly in conjunction with other tax developments. We have the idea that a lot of research has already been done on this issue. At the same time, of course, we are not against the idea behind this. We would also like to share all the information we have. In this motion, I would therefore like to give the judgment to your Chamber. It will certainly be part of the building blocks, as I said. So I think we'll get some more information about that anyway. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion with letter F (35304), on the ODE levy. It goes a little further on the discussion we just had, even before we got to the motion. It invites the government to examine the possibilities for reducing and possibly temporising this extreme increase in charges, to consult with the sectors and to inform the Chamber of the progress of consultations. That has parts that I say I understand. It is about the subsidy scheme and everything that is already happening next year, in 2020. For the fiscal side, that will not be before 2021, because we will have to decide next year after consultation, but I am open to that. I also think it wise to investigate what is really happening. In this motion, I would therefore also like to return the judgment to your Chamber. So judge Room. Then I am in favour of the motion with letter G (35241), on the prevention of double taxation at ATAD 1 and 2. In this motion, I also had trouble understanding exactly what was being asked of me, I shall be honest. This calls on the State Secretary to instruct the Tax Administration to develop policies to avoid double taxation as far as possible. I think that's something that really can't be done. I cannot instruct the Tax Administration to develop policies to prevent double taxation. Of course, it is not up to the Tax Administration to do so; it must do so to those who are subject to the tax. The Tax Administration can then, as Mr Essers himself pointed out, indicate whether or not that is the case. So a call for the Tax Administration to develop policy is really very complicated. That room just doesn't have the IRS. The Tax Administration can do it in all kinds of forms, but ultimately has to implement the law. As far as the law allows to avoid double taxation, the Tax Administration will use that space. So I can say that here, but if it is stated in this motion, it is a bit clumsy. So if the motion is the way it is, I really have to dissuade her, because it just can't be like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u340	Well, then, I'm gonna need you to fill me in. It is quite common for the Tax Administration to observe a certain development and give guidance to inspectors in the form of implementing decisions on how to deal with it. I am concerned that it should be made clear that where there are difficulties in the form of double taxation and where there are real cases, inspectors are instructed to deal with them flexibly. That's not a weird thing, is it? It happens all the time. As long as it is in the interests of taxpayers, no one will object. So I don't really understand your objection. I'm quite willing to change the wording, but I need to know exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u341	I'll try to say it again. In the third bullet of this motion, I am asked to instruct the Tax Administration to avoid double taxation as much as possible. I'm trying to tell you that's not up to the IRS. You cannot put in the policy: whatever happens and whatever is in the declarations, I instruct you to avoid double taxation as much as possible. There's no room. The tax authorities will rightly say to an inspector: I also have a law in front of me; I would like to bring some suggestions from you, but I cannot go beyond the law. If the law makes it clear that double taxation must be paid, then I cannot instruct the Tax Administration to avoid that double taxation. I really don't think that's possible. I would ask Mr Essers once again to take a good look at that third bullet, because that is really what it says. We've reread it four times to see if we could explain it differently, but here is really the assignment to the service, so the service is in the driver's seat to make sure that double taxation is avoided. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u342	You're the head of the IRS. So I'm also addressing you as the head of the IRS. You are the one who can give guidelines, and the inspector must do so. We have had a very big debate on this in a long time ago, with the Wibo van de Linde case. You're the head of the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u343	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u344	Nor does it say: in all cases, avoid double taxation. No, "as much as possible." I explained this in my text by saying: in those cases where there is a hardness that cannot be the intention of the directive. Then as an inspector, you have to be flexible and take into account all kinds of situations that we can't foresee with all of us right now. That is why you also say that we should not include this in the law and that is why I have also said that you are right to be strict in the doctrine, but that this is about implementation. That is all that is said here, but that is important for practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u345	We continue to disagree on this because it simply does not say that. So I hear what Mr Essers is saying and I agree with him that I am the political boss of the Tax Administration. I also agree that we need to be tough and flexible in implementation, but I cannot tell the Tax Administration that, regardless of what situation there is, the task must be to avoid double taxation as much as possible. That's not in the law either. If that had been part of the law, the inspector could have said: I understand that I get a clue for this and then I do. But it doesn't say that. Here the Tax Administration is asked to avoid double taxation. In the prevention of double taxation, it is the taxpayer who has to comply with the law and it is the inspector who can say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u346	The last interruption, then. Then I pick up the glove and I'm gonna take another look at that text. I'll come back to that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u347	I'd love to. Then we come to motion 35302 with letter N by Mr Otten. He actually asked about an investigation into a less complex system. He mentioned the UK example, where a number of very simple choices have been made, making it feasible. There are a lot of things in it, also in the recitals and in the observations, in which I can agree on my own, namely just about the problems we are experiencing. I have some doubts about the judgment, but we also have in the building block situation: what do we learn from abroad? If I may take it in such a way that Mr Otten also thinks it is a good idea that we should include in that exercise an extra block, a paragraph or an analysis of what is being done in the UK. The last motion (35302, letter O) is also by Mr Otten. It's about the self-employed deduction. In this motion the government is asked to wait first for what comes out of the Borstlap Committee before we proceed with the self-employed deduction. I said a little more about that in my first term. It is not that we do not know what we want to do until we have the outcome of the committee. There have been reports many years ago, such as the OECD report, but also interim study reports, which indicate that the large number of self-employed people in the Netherlands is far beyond international boundaries and that some of them are caused by what the OECD calls "difficult tax treatment." That is one of the reasons why we think it wise to start doing so now. On the basis of the interim report we received earlier from Borstlap, the cabinet also supports the line we need to do this, all the more so because, at the same time as the reduction of the self-employed deduction, the working discount is increased, so that the self-employed person does not feel any effects in his wallet. He's just gonna get better over the next few years. So there's already some kind of temporalization in there. In short, it is quite clear that I must discourage the motion for this reason, because I think that we certainly have reason to act now, to which Mr Otten has so nicely called me. Mr President, I believe that this brings me to the end of the motions tabled and to my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u348	Following the assessment by the Secretary of State of Mrs Geerdink's motion, I would actually appreciate a response from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u349	I can imagine that, but I do not think this is the right time for me to do so. It is also a motion that I tabled jointly with the CDA. So I also think I should go back to the CDA for that. That's my first reaction. My second reaction is that it is rather well-spoken that this would be against cabinet policy, when I said very clearly that we really support the fight against fraud and tax avoidance. A number of substantive comments have then been made on the motion, which I believe I can refute, but for that I would like to conclave with those with whom I have tabled this before I come back to it. So it may be that next week, when we put the motions to the vote, I will come back to that. In view of the emotion that emerged from this, I did not think it wise to debate this with the Secretary of State at this time. I'm gonna give it a rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u350	With emotion, even in the Senate, there's not much wrong. A bit of a solid debate is fine here too, but if I understand it that way, we are preparing for a third term next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u351	I await the request. That request is coming up next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u352	Of course, we should not get too many motions with "head on, head off." Before you know it, people are gonna think Rutte's head off or the State Secretary's head off. Of course, none of that is the intention. So I would like to support a reopening from the opposition if that helps. But my point about the motion on greenhouse horticulture and so on is that I asked for a letter rather early so that a discussion with the sector could take place this week. After that, the debate went even further. For the sake of order, therefore, I should like to be sure that this letter will be sent, because it is quite clear to me that the sector has really not been involved in the level of the tariffs and the discs. So let it come to us, of course also through the Minister of EZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u353	I think I made a commitment to that. If that wasn't clear, I'm gonna say it again. It seems very sensible to me. There were also a number of points raised by Mr Vendrik. I think it would be a good idea to give this further consideration. So I am sure to pass that on, and I expect and also know that the Minister of EZK would like to explain again how this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u354	Then I guess we'll add that to a third term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u355	Thank you, a short third deadline for tabling amended motions is standard. It can be applied for next week. We'll talk later. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-12.u356	I have come to deal with the eight legislative proposals. I'll list them all separately. 35302, Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35303, Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35304, Amendment of some tax laws and some other laws. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35305, Introduction of a withholding tax on interest and royalties. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35306, Amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001 with a view to abolishing the tax deduction of training expenditure. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35307, Amendment of the Sales Tax Act 1968. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35241, Amendment to the Corporate Tax Act 1969, the Income Tax Act 2001 and the dividend tax Act 1965 in connection with the implementation of Council Directive 2017/952 of 29 May 2017 amending Directive 2016/1164 as regards hybrid mismatches with third countries. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. 35255, Amendment to the Law on International Tax Tax Assistance and the General Law on State Taxation in relation to the implementation of Council Directive 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/7/EU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with regard to reporting cross-border arrangements. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next week. Finally, I propose that we vote next week on the motions that have been tabled. There's no objection to that, I see.
