ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is a VSO Foreign Affairs Council. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I have a motion and a few more questions about topicality. First of all, my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the initiative of this Chamber, legislation is being negotiated within the European Union to allow the imposition of personal sanctions on foreigners guilty of gross human rights violations and large-scale corruption;]] [[noting that the European Parliament and the Council voted in favour of this initiative;]] [[noting that such sanctioning legislation is named in the United States and other countries after corruption investigator and whistleblower Sergei Magnitsky;]] [[whereas it is currently part of the negotiations whether this European Penalty Act will be called Magnitsky;]] [[whereas it is also currently part of negotiations or large-scale corruption will fall within the scope of this Penalty Act;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that this European Penalty Act will be called Magnitsky;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that large-scale corruption and corruption within public authorities themselves will fall within the scope of this Penalty Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-2008]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u3	Perhaps we can renovate this chair a little earlier than the rest of the building.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u4	Isn't it sturdy enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u5	It's starting to loosen up a bit, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u6	I give the floor to Mr Koopmans, because he has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u7	I'm sure it won't have anything to do with Mr Sjoerdsma's views.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u8	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u9	My question to Mr Sjoerdsma is: is it more important for him to have legislation on sanctions or what it is called?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u10	I'd say that's what both of us should want. There are a few reasons for that. The first is that the countries where this type of sanction legislation has been introduced earlier, i.e. the United States, the United Kingdom, Baltic States and Ukraine, have all made these laws bear the name of Magnitsky. So this isn't the first place this is happening. You could say that that's symbolic, "it's just a name" -- but it's also a great source of inspiration for people who have been victims of human rights violations worldwide. They can then see: even if you become a victim and even after you die, you can still become the scare of all those people who commit such crimes. That's why I think the cabinet should work for both. By the way, what Mr Koopmans is ignoring is my plea to include large-scale corruption in it, corruption within governments, because it is also included in the other laws. This is in line internationally with what is already happening in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u11	I am grateful to Mr Sjoerdsma, because he makes the difference between his party and the VVD so clearly here. It is, of course, about achieving things, that you can act against gross human rights violations and corruption. That's the point. It's about the result. That's what I'd say as a VVD guy. Then it's a little less about the symbol. If you stick a label on it, no matter how beautiful that label can be, and that means you won't get any results in the end, you're missing something. At least that's what I think as a VVD guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u12	The difference between the VVD and my party was revealed in this proposal. When it came to achieving a human rights regime at all, when it came to the proposal to impose sanctions on people who commit large-scale human rights violations worldwide, then the Chamber was in favour of it. I am looking at Mr Van Helvert of the CDA, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Ojik. They were before that. It was then about achieving results, I say to Mr Koopmans, and the VVD was against it. So you are not only against the label; you are apparently against the result. That's too bad. I would like to invite you, Mr Koopmans, to at least support that result afterwards. Then we can add the label. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u13	Mr Koopmans, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u14	Mr Sjoerdsma is, of course, wrong here. What matters is the result, namely the fight against human rights violations and corruption. You have to use all your power to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u15	But you voted against, didn't you, Mr. Koopmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u16	It is precisely the VVD that has proposed to use our powers to deal with these things. I remember a motion in my name that Mr Sjoerdsma did not want to support. In that, I said, "Let's use our power resources." Now he comes up with some sort of symbolism. He recognizes that himself. He wants to label and we want results, but that difference will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u17	I remember very well: it was a colleague of Mr Van Helvert who took the initiative, supported by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen. They said: we want such a European sanction regime in the field of human rights; we really want to give teeth to European policy and we really want to achieve results. I was very disappointed that the result of the vote was not unanimous at the time, but that the PVV, Forum and VVD voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u18	Thank you. No, Mr. Van Helvert, I'm not going to give you the floor. I'm as strict as you are. You're not on the list either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mr Van Helvert is high on my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u20	You are high on Mr Sjoerdsma's list but not on my list and you have tabled the motion on behalf of Mr Sjoerdsma or vice versa. In any case, I think he has spoken on your behalf in this respect. Mr. Sjoerdsma, had you reached the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u21	No, Madam President, because I had also announced that I would like to ask a few questions about recent developments. Of course, I didn't anticipate that when I applied for this VSO. This concerns the temporary cessation of the Dutch training mission in Iraq, the German training mission in Iraq, due to a hitherto unclear threat. I hope that this Minister will be able to give us some clarity as to why this training mission is being shut down at the moment, as to what kind of threat it is, but also whether this threat might be related to the broader developments we are seeing in the Middle East: steamy American ships and sabotage near the Gulf. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u22	Thank you. I'm looking at Mr Koopmans. No? Then I look at the Minister: can you proceed immediately? Yes, that's the case. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a motion and a supplementary question. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert's motion, which calls on the government to make efforts to ensure that the European Penalty Act will be called "Magnitsky" and that large-scale corruption and corruption within governments will fall within the scope of this Penalty Act. Actually, I'd like to start with good news. Yesterday, the permanent representatives of the 28 EU countries agreed to the initiative for the cyber-sanction regime launched by the Netherlands. In an area that is important for us, especially after the OPCW hack, we have thus shown that it is possible for Europe to agree on something that needs to be formally confirmed in the Council of Ministers and set up a sanction regime. That motivates all the more to move forward with this. The Chamber played a very good role in this by also taking the initiative with a large number of other parliamentarians, but here we are less far, as I have outlined to the Chamber earlier. It is not the case that all European countries are equally enthusiastic and we need unanimity for this. We really need to be careful here that we don't sell the skin until the bear is shot. We are simply dealing with sensitivities in countries that still have to be convinced. These sensitivities relate, for example, to whether the instrument is aimed at specific countries and whether it does not send out a signal that increases conflicts rather than actually promotes human rights. So that discussion is not over yet. I also spoke extensively with Bill Browder, the initiator of Magnitsky legislation in the United States and elsewhere. I have also said to him: much respect for your commitment and I understand your enormous commitment to this subject, but for the result it helps to find the result more important than naming. We are not quite satisfied with that yet, but I have said this to him with conviction and I repeat that here too, because it is still not possible. Only one of the 28 countries has to say that it feels that this is too much directed at specific countries and that it does not want to do so, and then it does not come at all. That is why I am still fully committed to the Chamber, also literally, because they are very often bilateral contacts with the last doubting countries. The request from this motion concerning the name Magnitsky does not help. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Then there's the question about the training mission in Iraq. Mr Bijleveld comes in a very short time with a letter, because it is ultimately primarily her area. So tonight or tomorrow, the letter on the security situation and the consequences for the Dutch troops will come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u24	Unlike Mr Sjoerdsma's claim, the VVD was once opposed to Mr Sjoerdsma's motion on that legislation. That was not so much because the VVD would be against the sanction regime, but because we would have to introduce it nationally, on our own, if we could not achieve it at European level. Now, Mr Sjoerdsma's motion also adds a request to the Minister to make it more difficult by putting the label of that name on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u25	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u26	My question to the Minister is whether he agrees with me that this motion would actually make it even more difficult to achieve the result of that sanction legislation and that it would also be more difficult if we could then only do it nationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u28	As regards the use of the sanction instrument, I indicated at that time and also now that this is an excellent thing that you need to regulate at European level, and preferably even more broadly, because we have free movement of people, money and goods within Europe. It is therefore not effective to do so nationally. Again, given what we have achieved in the area of cyber sanctions, I am still hopeful that we can take this further step. So that's what I'm still committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u29	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-14.u30	I thank the Minister.
