ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the Social Affairs and Employment budget, Section 35300-XV. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	We begin, as usual in the budget, with the largest opposition party. That's the PVV in this case. I give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. Hardworking Dutch people, young and old, pensioners, people who are out of their debt in benefits or who have a job handicap. People who try to make something of their lives every day and try to keep their families running. People who have been squeezed out for years and every time in budgetary treatment should be happy with crumbs of purchasing power that are disproportionate to what has been taken from them in the years before. Ordinary Dutchmen are mentioned here in the Chamber. According to the mathematicians, they belong mainly to the middle class. A group so large that it can hardly be represented by tables. And yet every year this cabinet manages to fool the Dutch people with the same tables, in which they always seem to get it better, with texts in which everything according to the PR machine of Rutte III is rose scent and moonshine. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, the real ordinary Dutchman sees the political game from his living room and feels that he is being tricked again. They don't have time to believe all these purchasing power dreams of this cabinet, because often they live in a financial nightmare. Not taken seriously again. Not represented again by the government. They do not recognize themselves in all these tables and paper realities that politicians use in this kind of budget handling. And instead of making it a little easier for these people to give their financial air, the Minister will use these tables over and over again to wriggle himself out of difficult debate mumbo jumbo. Mr. Chairman. These games in The Hague are of no use to ordinary Dutch people. It's just bothering them. They are stuck and have to do with the real reality of everyday life, the reality of an empty wallet, the reality of too high rents, too high health costs, too high energy bills and too expensive messages: in practice all true purchasing power runners. Every time, they're pushed into the corner where the blows fall. Too much money to be eligible for social services, but not enough money to live without stress, let alone to build a buffer. Net disposable income has stopped for years. It's even lower now than in 2008. Never get anything as a gift, but for politics The Hague are always good enough to be used as a milk cow. Mr. Chairman. Last year almost half of all Dutch people went down, just like the year before. Never did the purchasing power promises of the past few years come true. It turned out to be less every year. And less purchasing power means more problems. I am talking about all those Dutch people who don't have enough money for a store, and in the meantime they can hardly bear the noose of rising rent increases. About workers who are wondering what they are actually doing because of the enormous burden. About young people who have to build a life full of financial uncertainty and continue to work for longer and longer. About older people who have seen their pension evaporate for years, how indexation has not been in place for years, and who have to watch patiently how the betrayal of the FNV and the Labour Party in particular makes their pension more uncertain and discounts easier. The pension system is being treated with the blunt axe. An unprecedented disgrace. I am talking about all those Dutch people who see that between 2015 and 2018 the economy increased by almost 10%, while they themselves had to do it by about 4%, with an average percentage of purchasing power per year. So you don't feel any of that in your wallet. That is not, therefore, a major advantage of economic growth, as Mark Rutte has promised over and over again. Those are lies, false lies. Even now, things are gonna go wrong again. What's the point of a percent raise if that goes directly to all the rising fixed charges? What good are all these cheerful purchasing power messages if you don't notice it in your wallet? In recent years, all these purchasing power promises have never come true. It was always less. For 2017, we have been promised a crumb of 1% purchasing power. That was 0.3%. For 2018, 0.6% was promised. To be ashamed of you, but well, that also got half less. For 2019, 1.4% has been promised and that too is less. Mr. Chairman. Now, next year, another plus in purchasing power will be promised. If we're supposed to believe this, it's just a bunch of mess in the margins. It's not nearly enough to compensate for what she's taken from me over the past few years. In a time of economic growth, this cabinet left our own people in the lurch. Throughout the period between 2008 and 2018, it is mainly the companies that have benefited. Citizens had it checked out. Shame, because in the meantime the water is up to the lips. The Nibud is rightly concerned that people have lost 60% of their income to permanent burdens, but this cabinet is shrugging its shoulders on these hard-working people with crumbs. Unbelievable! Once again, these people are forced to recognise that they simply cannot benefit from economic growth. Why not? We had every chance. Over the last few years, over tens of billions of euros have been raised in taxpayers' money. Why wasn't this returned? It's the least you can do. Why has this cabinet kept its hand on the cut all these years and failed to implement real purchasing power improvements? This cabinet has waited just as long for it to be almost too late. Economists are now warning against flattening economic growth and thus less room for real improvements in the wallet. Well, bravo, cabinet, bravo! But by looking away, the financial problems of ordinary Dutch people do not disappear. They still crave air, because the pressure on the wallet has become too big for these people. Mr. Chairman. After all this economic prosperity, a lot of people have financial stress. One in five households suffers from payment problems. Fights at home because they can't stand it anymore. Holidays are postponed. A day at the amusement park is often no longer there. Daily messages have become a major challenge. You name it. These people feel betrayed, and they are. All these years they have given Mark Rutte and his minions the opportunity to redeem the promise of real reliefs and to become a true purchasing power champion, but in practice it has proved to be the biggest purchasing power runners in Dutch history. This policy must stop. A new crisis will be the neck blow for all those Dutch, but this cabinet, as has been said, is shrugging its shoulders. In fact, this cabinet is creating a new crisis. And this has to stop. We need to stop this ugly Rutte III policy that is driving new misery and destroying everything. We need to do nice things and put PVV proposals into practice. Finally, hand over that excess of tax money collected back to our own people. Lower the VAT on groceries. Reduce your own risk in the care. Lower the rents. Those are concrete things. That'll help people. That's what people feel instantly and that gives them the opportunity to make their daily lives a little easier. But that can't be the end of it. As mentioned above, the FNV, the Labour Party and GroenLinks, together with this cabinet, have squandered the pension interests of millions of Dutch people. And we need to fix this. There is EUR 1,500 billion in cash with pension funds and yet there is a threat of discounts. Yeah, you heard right, there's still a threat of discounts. Although some of the reductions for 2020 have been postponed, they are still threatening to reach 2021. Next year there will also be 600,000 people at risk of pension reductions. A lot of people can't have those discounts. Already, one in three pensioners is struggling to make ends meet. Seriously, that's not how we treat our elders in a civilized country, is it? It's not worth explaining with EUR 1,500 billion in cash, is it? These discounts must be cancelled immediately. And you can. We have said it many times: if this minister stops being held hostage by the ECB, which, with its ridiculous interest rate policy, makes it possible for pension funds to be poor and the pension money to evaporate. Today, Het Financieele Dagblad came up with the news that if the ECB had done nothing, pension funds would not have had to be cut and indexing possible. So in other words, if the ECB had just leaned back and not implemented that weird interest rate policy, we would not have had a discussion about pension rebates. In fact, we could have worked towards indexation. So let the ECB get it back and let PvdA'er Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who, together with his committee, provides even stricter accounting rules and thus lower pensions, get it back and forth. Listen to all those retirement experts. Take the concerns of millions of pensioners seriously at last. Do what is right and protect the best pension system in the world. You don't do that by creating panic between generations and turning those generations against each other, you do that by helping the current system to stay the best so that people can have confidence in it. So adjust the calculation rate so that pension funds can get some air. Provide a realistic calculation rate, which does justice to the returns, so that pension discounts for the coming years are off the table and we can work towards indexation. What else needs to be done? That terrible pension agreement must be removed immediately from the table and through the shredder. It's breaking down our pension system. Don't. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the welfare state. Hardworking Dutch people deserve to be able to count on a good welfare state, even when it is no longer possible, and in turn they deserve to be protected. But this cabinet doesn't. This is because the cabinet leaves the borders wide open and places the focus wrong. The focus is on everything that is not Dutch. Take non-Western immigrants. He knows how to like the cabinet. Every year you give this group of people 3 billion euros of assistance alone. That is money that is mainly coughed up by the hardworking middle class, who has to watch patiently how to pay for Achmed and Fatima. Instead of being thanked, these people are being tricked, not only by the cabinet, but also by large groups of non-Western profiteers, who cannot get enough of all that easy-to-take Dutch money. If it turns out they're not eligible, they're gonna take it anyway; they're just gonna commit massive amounts of assistance fraud. I am referring, of course, to all those Turks who do not tell us that they have homes or apartments in their homeland and shamelessly rob our welfare spot. This has been going on for years and we're not doing anything about it. When people run into a lamp, they often get rid of it very easily. Take that Turkish couple from The Hague could do that undisturbed for €160,000 assistance fraud. They told the judge via an interpreter that they did not understand Dutch and therefore did not know that they had to report that they own land and an apartment complex near Istanbul. Whoever thinks these two fraudsters were immediately expelled from the country to never come back is wrong. They got a 60-hour community service. Or take the example of that Turk who ran into the light of a theme check "possession abroad." He had several houses in Turkey, but received assistance. The gentleman had to pay back everything from the municipality in the first place, but the judge whistled the congregation back. This Turk was allowed to keep his payment with retroactive effect and the municipality had to pay the court costs of €1,000 to the fraudster. It's the world upside down: cheating, keeping money and getting money, too. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet says it wants to counter this, but it comes with a weak bite. According to the new anti-fraud plans announced with a lot of bombs in this cabinet, the municipality retains its discretionary powers and the assistance will soon simply be granted as a loan to the fraudster. In practice, therefore, welfare fraudsters will continue to receive money while trying to destroy social security. As you know, we must not complain about this. We must not, of course, carry out targeted checks on this group. No, you can't do that, because you'll be discriminated against according to the naughty Netherlands, or you'll be hitting countries like Turkey and Morocco in the head. Oh, my God, I'm so sorry. Imagine that countries like Turkey and Morocco, which protect fraudsters and almost never cooperate in an investigation, would be hit in the head! Man, man, man. Coward! We're ruled by cowardly, scared people. But our social security is not only destroyed by non-Western immigrants. No, thousands of migrant workers are also filling their pockets with our money and laughing their asses off. There is massive fraud with the export WW: with Dutch money holidays in Poland. The UWV has not done anything about this for years, but once again the cabinet is unable to do what it should do, because it is not allowed by the European Union to carry out targeted controls and not to take targeted measures against this group. What is the European Union doing? Why is the Minister also being held hostage by the EU on this issue? This cabinet allows immigrants to destroy our social security systems. Abuse undermines the support for the system, but this cabinet does not want to see that being an immigrant does not go hand in hand with being a welfare state. This cabinet doesn't want to see it choose. And we'll choose. The PVV chooses our welfare state and our own people. That's why we need to protect our welfare state. Mr. Chairman. That is why the following measures are in place. Acknowledging that the preservation of our welfare state and mass immigration are an impossible combination. For the sake of our welfare state, close the borders for all immigrants from Islamic countries and all asylum seekers. Make sure that immigrants who are already here are not allowed to benefit from our social security until they have been in the Netherlands for ten years, are not criminals and have worked. Exclude status holders completely from the assistance, directly. Make sure that immigrants who commit fraud with our social security are arrested, always pay back the amount to the last penny, with a fine, and are expelled together with their families and never allowed to come back and use our social security for life. And there's nothing wrong with that, Mr. Chairman. That's not discrimination. That's common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	I see someone's at the Interrupt Microphone, but I think you were almost done. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	Then I suggest you finish your contribution first. Then I will go to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u7	Perfect. I'm rounding up. This budget is a huge missed opportunity to finally put the Dutch back together. It's time to clean up Rutte's mess. I can't wait for another election either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u8	I listened carefully to the story of Mr De Jong of the PVV. He talked at some point about "his own people." I would like to ask Mr De Jong who 'its own people' are. Can he give a definition of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u9	Of course, these are people who work hard here in the Netherlands, who do not want to overthrow democracy and commit fraud with assistance, because they still have a house in Turkey or Morocco. These are people who feel more Dutch, who are Dutch, who protect and support our democracy. Those are our own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u10	From this story I make it clear that it is not about people with a migration background versus people without a migration background, while from the entire contribution of the PVV it does see that immigration is wrong. Because as a result of this immigration, there are also people who work hard and who exactly meet the definition that Mr De Jong now gives of "their own people." My specific question is as follows. Mr De Jong said earlier in his own contribution that we should not set young people and older people against each other when it comes to the issue of pensions. Then why does he do that to people with a migration background and people without a migration background?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u11	No, everyone who is here in the Netherlands and wants to contribute is welcome to stay. But those who are not welcome to stay are the people Mr Kuzu stands for. Those are the people who can commit fraud with the assistance that young Dutch boys can kick together and make festive videos of it. People like that don't belong here in the Netherlands. I don't need to give applause to people who work hard. They're also just welcome to stay. But we don't stand for the people Kuzu stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr President, may I make a point of order? Mr Kuzu was elected by the electorate, and he stands for it. I find the accusation that Mr Kuzu stands for people who overthrow the Netherlands, who fraud, shameful. I would also like to ask you to respond to those comments and simply not accept them. Mr Kuzu has a position. I agree with that one time, and another time I don't. But put Mr Kuzu away here as if he were for a party of cheating, hating people in the Netherlands! What a madness! Little democratic, I say to Mr De Jong. I hope, Mr President, that you will ensure that all the people's representatives here can simply do their job. Mr Kuzu and his colleagues too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u14	That goes for everyone. And everyone has the space to respond to that. Mr. Kuzu, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr President, may I say something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 should stand up for those Dutch, for those natives who see how multicultural society has failed. He should do so with just as much fire as he is now defending Mr Kuzu with all his disgusting ideas here. I will allow him to set up his political party in Turkey. He doesn't belong here, and I'd rather have him out of here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u18	The crux is that we talk in this debate about issues on which we sometimes agree, but sometimes we do not. Mr De Jong has that right, because Mr De Jong also has voters. I will always defend his right to say things here that I disagree with, but what I really think is wrong is that Mr Kuzu is being put away here like he wants all kinds of bizarre things in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u19	Why don't you guys merge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u21	The people Mr Kuzu stands for Mr Kuzu stands for voters, who have elected him...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u22	All of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u23	So he has every right to make full use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u24	Everyone is elected here and everyone represents their constituents. That is even stated in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u25	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Weyenberg for his contribution and for his point of order. Now we see exactly where it goes wrong. Suppose I would say that Mr De Jong would stand for all those fascist people who think it is necessary to bring 13-year-old boys to disrupt KOZP demonstrations. Suppose I would say he stands for neo-Nazis who stand here in The Hague to demonstrate. However, I do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u28	No, but you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u29	Next, Mr De Graaf says... No, not Mr De Graaf, although I'm used to it from him. Next, Mr De Jong tells me that I should leave this country and that I should start a political party elsewhere, and that is just allowed. I think that's disgusting. That stands for exactly what the PVV has been doing for years, namely putting groups of people against each other on the basis of background. And that is so pertinently wrong and polarizing!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u30	I stand before my own constituents. I stand for Dutch people here in the Netherlands. For years it has been all about non-Western immigrants, Moroccans, Turks, people who are supposed to be petted, but it is now time for our own people. They should be on one. Mr Kuzu may represent his own people as much as he likes, but every week he shows that he is not for the Netherlands at all, that he is just for Turkey, that he is just an Erdogan supporter...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u31	That's bullshit, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u32	He's got no business here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u33	This discussion has little to do with budgetary treatment. It has been derailed again, while this is only the first contribution. You have made your point, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u34	My final point, Mr President. I would like to say out loud once again that I am a parliamentarians in the Netherlands and that I stand in front of a group of people who do not feel sufficiently represented, just the group that has suffered from that polarisation, that hated and that jestled by the PVV in recent years. I am not going to let Mr De Jong, Mr De Graaf or any other PVV member leave me here. I will always stand up for those people who feel pushed into a corner by types like Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. I stand before my own constituents and the Dutch people. It hasn't been about that for years, so I'm glad to be able to represent the people who feel pushed into the corner by the failure of multicultural society. I am pleased that you have given me the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you. Mr De Graaf has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. As if Mr Kuzu knew my speaking time... It's a nice little bridge, though. This Minister does not like to talk about the issues of integration and social cohesion. That makes sense, because talking about social cohesion means becoming ever-deteriorating social cohesion. In fact, the Netherlands is a totally segregated country, despite the billions invested in the last 40 years in the framework of integration projects. This of course has everything to do with the increasing influence of Islam, but also with Dutch self-hatred in a certain part of the population and especially in the elites, with the urge and compulsion for diversity. And that is because the Dutch culture for the left and politically correct Netherlands is something inferior. Something they think the Netherlands should get rid of. Otherwise, in their eyes, it's always better. According to them, Dutch culture is the problem. That is why I come back to a meeting last Monday here in the Lower House about integration and social cohesion, with the curtains closed, outside the spotlight. That consultation went as follows. As a PVV, we discuss Islamization and the problem our people are facing thanks to Islamization and mass immigration. Then the other parties come up, they were six, the other I missed, and they all stand up for people. Very noble. But do they answer it, is the question, for Dutch people in the tribulation, about which my colleague De Jong also spoke? No, Mr. Chairman, they don't stand up for that. They're working for people in the asylum shelter. Or for people from Moldova, who come here on the ticket tip by bus, knowing that they will get free money here. They ended up in the procedure, too. Either they stand up for people who have to settle in, i.e. immigrants, asylum seekers, from any country. They worry about people from all over the world. These are people who have come to the Netherlands in general because it is lulikkerland for them. The political parties that were there last week, especially from the middle and the left, are crying for the worst and are competing in the description of the terrible suffering that these immigrants and asylum seekers are suffering. That suffering is called free care, free care, free education, guidance to work, language classes, priority for social housing. What a pain. But in this discussion on integration and social cohesion, I have not heard anyone outside the PVV, not a single party, stand up for people who are victims of mass immigration and Islamisation. No one stands up for the victims of meanwhile also the Africanisation of the Netherlands. The common Dutch, who suddenly turned out to live in the Middle East or Africa without moving. They're paying for the shelter. They pay for the care. They pay for the education and guidance to work of all these immigrants. And they pay the many benefits they collect, in addition to the benefits of many other non-Western immigrants, for decades. If we ask the Minister and the Secretary of State with such a long list to calculate the cost of mass immigration, then we will get some answers, but they are almost all evasive: people should not be placed along the measuring bar of the euro. That's pretty much the tone. This can be done in all other areas in the Netherlands, when it comes to care or whatever. You'll only be an older man: the cabinet knows exactly what an older man costs. But we can't know what an immigrant costs. When is the cabinet going to stand up for the people I'm talking about? That's how I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State. When will I hear the Minister get excited about the group violence in Gorinchem, for example? The Dutch in tribulation, our people, not only pay the price. They also pay through less security on the street. The victim in Gorinchem received no attention from victim support and no attention from the mayor, from the prime minister or from the queen and certainly not from the minister. The principal said stay home, because I can't guarantee your safety. Then there was a national fuss, fortunately, via the social media and also some newspapers that posted it on their website. That's why three of the perpetrators were finally arrested. Three of that whole group. They're all responsible, but only three were arrested. They are perpetrators of uncircumcised racist violence. They are the racists in the Netherlands. But very left-wing and politically correct The Netherlands sees the people who are victims of Islamization, Africanisation, violence explosions and the taking away of their culture as racists, because those people may not want to have anything of Islam, want to keep Black Piet or question the mass immigration. No, Mr President, the perpetrators of violence are racists, just like anyone who talks about youth violence without mentioning a description. The government cannot just put an end to racism, no matter how terrible racism is. But the cabinet can act hard against racist violence. But in the reversed world of the weak rulers of this country, the cabinet first, the ordinary people are racists. It's being dealt with. The racist violence goes unpunished. That's the Netherlands in almost 2020. The mayor of Gorinchem pretended the group violence came out of the sky. But there's a fist-thick file. Take a look back in the newspaper and you will see that already in 1997 40% of Moroccan youngsters in Gorinchem were known to the police. In 2009, 10% were suspected of a serious crime in Gorinchem. We've had café Bacchus there. Did those two girls die for nothing? That mayor, what's he doing there? I'd like an answer from the Minister. There's a fist-thick file with diversity violence from the past few years. As the Reformatorisch Dagblad remarked in a final sentence: "As far as is known, no pupils of the reformatorical Gomarus school community in Gorinchem are involved in the incidents." I call on the Cabinet to take tough measures, because Gorinchem is not on its own. We have had to deal with group violence in the Netherlands before. Violence committed by groups that take place very quickly and explosively organized. Of course, that's possible nowadays with the nice phones everyone has. Rotterdam had to deal with it years ago. Several shops were looted. We also dealt with this in Amsterdam. And the various outbursts of group violence against native young people are still fresh in our minds. That is why I call on the Minister, together with JenV's colleague, because integration, coherence and justice are, of course, completely interrelated, to settle a number of issues. First of all, crack down on this violence and expel the perpetrators, if necessary with the whole family. Put the army in if the police can't handle it. Apply group liability to the whole group that participates in this type of group violence and also to those who watched but did not intervene. Today, bans are still in place, long-term and, if necessary, a ban on areas for the whole of the Netherlands. Action and immediate action, I say to the Minister. Let's do it today! Technical tools can prevent group violence and looting. This can already be done by checking and analysing real-time metadata from social media, in neat Dutch, and then acting quickly. Stop mass immigration from Islamic countries and grant all asylum. With regard to the violence that has taken place, tomorrow I want the Minister to be completely open about the composition, the motives, the structures and the background of the groups of looters and group attackers. We've seen where it leads in Birmingham if you don't intervene. It's just outside the Netherlands, but it's our foreland if we don't do something. There mothers and their children walked into the cinema to watch a nice movie and had to deal with two opposite gangs with machetes. That is the result of forced diversity. And what did the police say? He picked up a few of those guys in Birmingham and said: we let them go after two hours, because a good conversation with the parents often wants to help. That is exactly what is happening in the Netherlands. That reasoning is nothing different from the reasoning of the cabinet. That's a blood hazard. What madman ever imagined that you could get millions of people from Islamic countries and from Africa without the sight, culture and way of living on this continent changing negatively? Africa is going from 1.1 billion to 4 billion inhabitants this century. A third goes adrift, the UN says. Most of them want to go to Europe. Minister, I say through the chairman, why don't we protect our people in the Netherlands instead of attacking them with those open borders? In addition to the violence with which diversity is "celebrated," the Islamic elephant in society is growing steadily. The police are more busy organizing Ramadan meals than catching crooks. The minister, together with his education colleague Slob, dares to close down the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, that Islamic school. It's a brewing bunch of salafists. We just had another summer full of pool terror. The descriptions were withheld and then we'll know. The Netherlands sighed under the asylum crime, which was even actively concealed in Amsterdam by the administrators. Whole school classes are dragged to the mosque on the Dutch hairs to learn to kneel under the guidance of an imam who knows that Islam has won with it. In Amsterdam, but also in other cities, more and more on Friday sounds the horrible, fortified cry of the Islamic prayer call. Politically correct and left Netherlands seems to love it. Allowing this form of Islamic prayer calls in our streets, of every prayer call of Islam, is cheerful for the downfall of our values, our standards and our culture. It's applauding even for Jew hatred, for lht-hate, for the oppression of women. So many people in the Netherlands only get this late because of what freedom means. In fact, they won't know until they're gone. Islam doesn't worry about the climate, I tell a lot of people. Islam is not and never becomes vegan, Islam is not inclusive and not diverse. The only gender issue that Islam has is women's disadvantage. They're only half the man's worth. That's what the Sharia says. I also expect a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another problem, the underground banking system hawala that many people in the Netherlands seem to use. It's very hard to fathom. In Germany, a whole system of hawala banking has just been rolled up. It's from the east, too. It is very difficult to see, but I would like the Minister, together with his colleagues in the Finance and Justice sectors, to take much more action on this, especially in the context of combating the financing of mosques abroad. With this you might also tackle underground Islamic banking and mosque financing. I say to the Minister once again: action, action, action. Then I'm approaching a conclusion. Islam and the Islamic invasion have made the Netherlands a state in decline. Salafism is for weak drivers a lightning rod for all problems with Islam. Call it salafism and there's no problem anymore. Or it's narrowed down, narrowed down. But it's the modern administrative eye valve. Not only salafistic mosques are the problem, but all mosques are the problem. Close these palaces of hatred, so I call upon the minister. This time I like to get an answer and not silence, like last week. The multicultural society has failed, even Angela Merkel says. I therefore challenge the Minister to provide scientific evidence that diversity is so good and that diversity is always better. Come up with that scientific evidence. The Netherlands can still be a beautiful society, but then much has to change. As far as the restoration of society is concerned, there is one important condition: we must de-Islamicise. As long as Islam is not seen for what it is and as long as the role of Islam is not seen and recognized as the poison of our society, any measure is without chance. Islam is the greatest force in our society in undermining our leading culture, our cohesion and our laws. In addition, Africanisation must be stopped. Above all, the attack on our own people must stop, because the racist gang violence we are dealing with is actually the coffee of society as it is currently being made. And that is a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Tielen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. My group chairman started his General Political Reviews with his grandfather in Eindhoven. I'd like to continue with that line and we'll all think of you too before we dive into the policy and the figures, let's talk about our grandfathers. That gives most of us a warm feeling, and after the previous speeches, at least I have a need for it myself. It makes us think. What I'm curious about is, what did your grandfather do for a living before he retired? What was or is his profession? My Utrecht grandfather was a coal farmer in a family business that brought warmth to the city for many decades until the gas was discovered in Groningen and he went bankrupt. He then worked at a gas station on the Croeselaan in Utrecht until his death. That gas station is a trendy coffee bar now. Mr. Chairman. Occupations change. The professions that our sisters, our peers, are now making money on, are often incomparable to the professions of our grandfathers. I also really have no idea how my kids are going to put their talents into paid work later. A budget is intended to consider the coming year and make choices that fit the ambitions and expectations of 2020. But the coming year is also a year on the road to a future. The VVD is therefore happy to use this budgetary treatment to look further ahead, because we need to look ahead. Last week the news headlined that purchasing power is no longer growing after 2022. In a few years' time, the Netherlands will have many more pensioners, but at the same time many fewer people who work. Government spending on care and AOW is rising and income from activity is falling. There's gonna be a lot of pressure on the workforce. People need to work harder to maintain education, health care, hospitality and ICT systems. Their wages are going up a little bit, but they don't feel like they're getting better. Mr. Chairman. I'm an optimist, but this is really gonna be a big challenge. And that is not only what it is today. That is why the mission of this cabinet for this budget is very clear: it is important that everyone in the Netherlands feels invited and supported to contribute and to develop and deploy their talents on our labour market, so that the economy can continue to grow and we can keep the Netherlands as free, safe and prosperous as it is today. During this budget debate, I would like to indicate what the VVD wants from the cabinet to achieve: the dynamic labour market, making more work more attractive and keeping on learning. Soon my colleague Wörsdörfer will discuss what the VVD wants for people who have financial problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u40	The VVD Group is concerned about the middle class and says: there is now a very big challenge here. In the meantime, however, some EUR 30 billion of taxpayers' money has been raised from the same people over the past three years. Why didn't you return that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u41	I don't know exactly what math Mr. De Jong sees in front of him. We are coming out of quite a deep economic and financial crisis. We have had to put all our sails in this country to make sure that we get out of there again. We've done that again at the moment. The economy is growing. The growth is small, but it grows. I don't know where Mr. De Jong from the big treasury thinks he's magical, but I don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u42	That's how I know Mrs. Tielen. It is now the second time in three weeks, I believe, that she has not prepared for a debate. Of course you can, but we are talking about a very large group of people who are worried. I'm talking about the way too much tax money was collected. It's called overrated. Too much money has been collected. You didn't return that money to those hardworking Dutch. Then you cry in the Chamber and say that you are concerned about the same people. I'll ask the question again. Why don't you get your math machine? Why didn't you give those people their own money back? Why did you increase your VAT on groceries? Why don't you eliminate your own risk? Why do you make sure that people can't pay their rents anymore because they're shooting up 15% in recent years? Why would you allow that? Why don't you just give that money back to those own people, to those hard-working Dutch people who crave it and can't keep their heads above water anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u43	It's nice to hear Mr. De Jong say this, because that's how we know each other. Mr. De Jong makes black and white pictures of the world. Anything bad has to go and everything good has to do better. That's how Mr. De Jong solves everything. But honesty requires us to say that the way we deal with our tax revenues and expenses for the burden in this country is a little more complicated than Mr. De Jong's. Again, we are coming out of a deep financial crisis. Everyone worked hard to get out. We've come out a little bit, but we really have something to do in the years to come. Indeed, people feel that they are trying very hard to make sure that the Netherlands is on top of it and that they do not always find it. That's annoying, too. That's what the Cabinet's charging itself with. The VVD also takes responsibility for this. From January onwards we hope that for a lot of Dutch people at the end of the month things will be a bit better than they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u45	First of all, the dynamic labour market. The world is changing and so is the labour market. The big question is whether the Dutch labour market now meets the challenges of the future. We're gonna have to make more money together. We need to work harder. But today's labour market does not match that challenge. It has not been the case for a long time that everyone or has a fixed contract or is an entrepreneur, while that is the first question when you fill out a tax return. Not only that, all laws and regulations are based on a clear and unambiguous distinction between employees and entrepreneurs. This already leads to problems in practice today. For example, both self-employed and clients are uncertain about the status of the assignment. Are there any follow-up charges or fines? Did we even get it right together? For example, there are workers who are dismissed and then do the same work as self-employed, but without protection against illness and dismissal. And the competition between hiring someone and giving someone azzp assignment isn't always fair. To solve these problems in practice, we look for tools that create clarity, such as the web module. The VVD would like that web module to be simple and give certainty to both self-employed and clients. This means that with a limited number of questions a high degree of certainty is needed. Does the Minister share this view and is he willing to test the usability of that web module for SMEs through the SME test? Not all SMEs employ HR advisers or lawyers. The VVD also wants that, if there is "the computer says no," it is clear what alternatives there are. Does the Minister share that opinion and can he make it clear how he deals with this? Finally, can the Minister give a clearer picture of the timeline of the web module? Mr. Chairman. One SME is not the other. One self-employed person isn't the other. I don't think I need to give you any examples. On the one hand, the number of different sectors and different legal forms is very large, while on the other hand, they are working or self-employed, or employees. Can the Minister undertake to state explicitly what to do with all the different ones mentioned when he starts reading the opinion of the Regulatory Committee in January and is likely to respond to them? Can he include the differentiation in SMEs from my colleague Aartsen's adopted motion last Tuesday? I would also ask the Minister whether he intends to make proposals on lifelong learning, the transition fee and the preventive dismissal test, as described in the Code of Work 2025? As of January, the Labour Market Act is in force in balance, a law designed to improve the balance between fixed and flex and between employers and employees. A whole system of measures finds its way to employers. The VVD therefore considers it important to follow whether the law will work as we intended it to. A firm finger on the wrist is necessary as far as we're concerned. In the first quarter of 2020, we would like the Minister to do a rough scan of the law on employers, employees and job seekers. No deep digging analyses but a quick scan, from which we can take some interesting insights into the next steps in the regulation of work. I mentioned the committee on this. How many additional contracts are concluded for an indefinite period? Are there any shifts visible? Do we really see in practice that flex forces are improving, as intended, or are the costs increasing in particular? It's about that kind of question. A specific point of attention which the Chamber has previously pointed out is seasonal work and work in companies dependent on the weather. Can the Minister state what is going on with the Wiersma/Herma motion on these bottlenecks? The impact was promised before the end of the year. I'm curious about that. Then I have another question about the compensation scheme for small entrepreneurs who are forced to quit their business. The scheme will apply from 1 January 2021, but there are already entrepreneurs who have had a small business of their own for many years, such as a hairdressing salon or a snack bar, who become disabled, have to stop and have not sold their business, but have staff. What is the case with these entrepreneurs? Can they rely retroactively on the compensation scheme? That is my question to the Minister, because the UWV is not so clear about it. Mr. Chairman. If you're talking about all the talents that are needed, I don't want to ignore the evaluation of the Participation Act. The SCP showed that too many people are still on the sidelines without...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u46	Just finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u47	The SCP showed that too many people are still on the sidelines because they do not get the right support, do not have the right qualifications and in some cases unfortunately do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u48	I have a question about Mrs Tielen's previous point onzzp'ers and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u49	Yeah, she's still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u50	So I'm gonna shoot him in there, thank you for that opportunity. We have just received a response from employers and employees on the basis of the internet consultation on the legislation. They actually say forget this bill and do your homework again. That's what the employers from the Malie Tower say. Is Mrs. Tielen willing to do that search with them again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u51	The people who know me know that I am critical and generally positive critical. In the end, we really need legislation. I think Mr. Van Dijk agrees with me very much. I, too, go through that law very critically. Of course I listen carefully to what is said about it in the field, because we are not concerned that there is a law, but that there is a law that works in practice. With that critical look, I'll go through it. Today won't be the last time we talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u52	Is there also room for the VVD to start work on the opinion of the Borstlap Committee, on the future of the labour market, and to let go of this half-product, given all the concerns of organisations, employers and employees? Then we can really conduct the debate on the basis of facts and not on the basis of bad legislation. We can just start enforcement so that we can protect the real entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u53	It's not up to me to make any promises anyway. I understand Mr Van Dijk's question very well. At the same time, the opinion of Mr Borstlap and his committee will not be a magic wand either. I suspect that we also need a lot of time to do so, while there is already a need for more certainty about the way in which self-employed people and clients make agreements with each other. It would really be too soon to say now: let it go and we'll see. That's gonna take too much time. I'd like to tell Mr. Van Dijk that I'm going to run through that law very critically. I'm gonna follow it closely, because we're gonna want something that works in practice. What the time horizon should be, we're going to see, but I don't want to postpone it, because there is already a need for it in the field and in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u54	I'm gonna keep going at this point. It is true that employers and employees have indicated that they are very critical of the coalition'szzp plans. They say, "Tuck it in the trash." In the House of Representatives, you, the coalition, no longer have a majority. You don't have a majority in the First Chamber either. Is it not better to say that we are going to stop doing this now and we are going to see if we can come to a plan, but we are going to support it? Otherwise, in a year's time, you'll have a law that will be voted down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u55	What I said to Mr Van Dijk, I also say to Mr Smeulders. It's not about making weeds to make weeds. We want to make laws because they have to work in practice eventually. There is a genuine need for clear regulation and clarity on the basis of which clients and self-employed persons make agreements with each other. There's something in front of it now. There's a critical look at that. Once again, my critical view will also go through, but let us not pre-empt all kinds of legal proceedings that still need to be carried out in this Chamber. And let's see what we can do in the end to deliver something that self-employed people and entrepreneurs can do with in a timely and, above all, feasible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u56	Can Mrs Tielen mention an employers' or employees' association which welcomes the law as it has been submitted by her cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u57	I think we're still in the Internet consultation. I can't mention it, but I'd be quite frankly surprised if people jump on the roof already. In my view, we too are listening very carefully in the country, in any case, all these workers' associations and employers' associations,zzp platforms and individual self-employed workers have a huge need for legislation and regulation. It's gotta be good. Of course I agree with the interrupting gentlemen. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u59	I was in the process of evaluating the Participation Act. The VVD remains firmly behind the goals we have set with the Participation Act. Work is an added value for everyone. We do not want people to be written off and put in a card box in a corner of a city office. It is therefore wise that the Secretary of State should use her actions to launch a broad offensive, simple switching and a simplification of the Jobs Agreement Act. In addition, we want the so-called classical welfare recipients to know better how to get back in, for example through a job, language training or debt relief. The VVD does not approve of the fact that people in the assistance have sometimes not been seen and not spoken for years and that the simple question of what one needs to be able to participate has not been asked for so long. Especially now that everyone's needed, that's a missed opportunity. As far as we are concerned, it is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State calls on municipalities to talk to everyone and make an appropriate offer. The VVD is pleased that this offer is then not without obligation, because as far as we are concerned it is normal that people try to be able to stand on their own feet and become financially independent, also in order to maintain the support for our social safety net. Customisation remains the key, but let it be clear that not wanting but receiving benefits is not an option as far as we are concerned. But I do have some questions for the Secretary of State. Can she explain what she wants in return? What follow-up steps does she see to improve the position of people covered by the Participation Act? And how does the Secretary of State take the municipalities in these follow-up steps? According to the Secretary of State, what do the municipalities need to put this into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u60	I see you all standing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u61	I didn't expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u62	No, neither do I; not at all. But perhaps you have some comments on the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u63	No, I think I have said enough about the Participation Act, but it seems that this raises questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u64	Good. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u65	We share the VVD's view that it is important not to write people off. That was also a reason for us to support Mr Raemakers' motion. That does mean that you should have a broad look at that. I would like to explore with the VVD the possibilities she sees. Because we now see that people are not allowed to follow education because they are not available for the labour market. We now see that single mothers are advised not to do anything, otherwise their benefits will be compromised. They do not have the right to childcare, because they must first have a job, in short, chicken and egg. To what extent would the VVD want to participate in ensuring that all kinds of provision is made for people so that they can enter the labour market with peace of mind and well-equipped?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u66	Mrs Van Brenk, of course, makes a number of very recognizable points. Frankly, I will come back to that later, later, with another example. That is also my question to the Secretary of State. Eventually, municipalities, for example, have to talk to those single mothers and the people on welfare benefits to ask what they need. Then there must be a tailor-made solution that ultimately leads, preferably, to paid work and participate in society if possible. Municipalities will sometimes have to apply more customization there, I think, but, again, I ask the question to the Secretary of State. A single mother who does not yet have a high qualification in training but who could receive it within a year could be supported, for example, in the training leading to paid employment. That's a question I have a lot to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u67	The broad view... Then I'll try one more tooth sharper. If people have a problem that holds them back, that can be debt or addiction issues and so on, it should be resolved first. They need time so that they can get back on the labour market. Is that also a passable path for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u68	In the end, I think it is the intention to allow people who are still in a corner somewhere in a card box, I have seen in Utrecht, to participate, preferably in paid work, especially if they can. We need all the talents; I'll say that a few more times today. There's got to be customization for that. My own experience with the neighborhood teams in Utrecht, for example, is that people can really be involved. My question to the Secretary of State is what now stands in the way of municipalities to set it up in this way. If we know what it is, let us see what is needed and whether we can solve it somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u69	There is nothing wrong with helping people to work and with guidance from the municipalities. That's great. But I think the VVD makes a caricature of people in welfare and portrays them all as profiteers hanging on the couch, while a large part of the people in welfare like to work or even be disabled. Those people are the ones who slander you with those kind of words. The plea is very hypocritical when I read yesterday in the newspaper that your group chairman, Mr Dijkhoff, is raising €37,000 for nothing, namely waiting money. He recognizes that himself. And where colleagues say they're quitting that waiting money, Mr Dijkhoff says, I'm keeping that money. Free money for nothing! Do you not think that plea is hypocritical and do you share my appeal to him to hand in that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u70	I hear two questions. I do not know whether Mr Van Dijk is getting two peats after his name. I'll split them in two, too. The first question is whether Mrs Tielen, the VVD, places people as profiteers. You can read the Acts. I believe that the one who is now sketching a caricature here is Mr Van Dijk himself. So I'm really throwing that away. We think it is important that people should be able to participate, that they should also be asked how they can participate and that they should ultimately prefer to come to paid work. I stand by everything I've said about that. Your question about Mr. Dijkhoff is better put to Mr. Dijkhoff. It's not here. In my view, Mr Dijkhoff does nothing against what is laid down in the rules and laws agreed by our democracy. I wouldn't know why Mr. Van Dijk is so angry about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u71	It is about reciprocity; that is what the VVD is taming on. Explain why you're getting money. I think it is very good, once again, that we are helping people to get a job, but a lot of people are unable to do so, for example because a company says that there is no desire to employ a disabled person. That's not a profiteer, and it would be a credit to you if you said so. Now I wonder what the reciprocity of your group chairman is, who is raising €37,000 because he has been a minister for four weeks. Colleagues say: I hand in that money, that waiting money cannot be properly defended. But Mr Dijkhoff says: I'll just keep it. What's reciprocal about that? Wouldn't it please you to say: yes, of course, money you get for no good reason, should you actually give it back? I'd like a reasoned answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u72	Once again, Mr Van Dijk puts words in my mouth and then says that I must distance myself from them, when I have taken those words completely in my mouth. I think that's a little weird. Then there are the waiting times we have. We are here in this Chamber to discuss with each other what we think is normal, what we think is good, what we think is acceptable when it comes to waiting money. Reciprocity always plays a role in these discussions. Over the last few years, we have been here several times with a critical look through the waiting money schemes for politicians and drivers. We've been through it a couple of times, too. They're lying there the way they are. Mr. Dijkhoff abides by the rules we agreed to meet in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u73	I just want to get back to the Participation Act. My first question is whether Mrs Tielen has actually read the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u74	I always like that question. Yes, of course Mrs Tielen read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u75	I am glad that you read it, because then you also read that a lot of assumptions we had in the Participation Act are not correct. That was a solid report and nuanced on parts. I'm actually wondering...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u76	And fat, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u77	Yeah, 256 pages. The conclusions are actually incredibly clear. My question is how then can the VVD put on Twitter in the same week: "Beijstand? Get to work!" For anyone who does not want to read the text, I mention that there are two icons: the old situation is a hand in which money is put in and the new situation is a muscle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u78	I love muscle, quite frankly. I'd love to myself, but what's Mr. Renkema's question to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u79	If you have read the report, I do not understand how the VVD can manage to make such simplistic statements. If we are talking about caricatures: if you have read the report, that is a complete caricature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u80	I think Mr Renkema is somewhat right about that, because I would also put more words into it. I just did. The SCP has been critical in its 256 pages thick report on the assessment of the Participation Act in a broad sense. It also says 'I agree with Mr Van Dijk that they are not all the same people with the same distance from the labour market.' What we are saying is that we really need to do better together to get the welfare recipients to talk to them and see what is needed to do paid work. Because in the end, we're gonna need all these muscles to keep our country alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u81	I notice it's an industrial accident.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u82	I think it's serious anyway. On the one hand, Mrs Tielen and the VVD recognise the need to take people by hand. That's what the SCP says: guiding, giving time, each person is different. On the other hand, however, evil has already been done by the VVD by talking through the Secretary of State in the Volkskrant about the mandatory consideration and putting it in the window immediately and by a Facebook post of the VVD where it is very proudly mentioned "we are going to catch them, those welfare recipients; we are going to oblige." That's exactly the image the VVD wants. And then here we are in the debate, and then it is indeed all nuanced, but evil has already been done. I think that's unfair to a group of people who don't ask for it. The SCP also concludes that there is no point in bothering them with all kinds of duties and obligations and chasing them, but that you have to take them by the hand. Those people want to be trusted, not the distrust of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u83	I think our approach is mostly based on confidence. Again, we need everyone. Anyone can do something. We also have to deal with people, but we also have to face up to something. Ultimately, our society is indeed based on reciprocity, one for the other. This morning there was a beautiful opinion article in Trouw or in Het Parool. I don't even know about a VVD council member from Amsterdam. He says that people are very happy when you talk to them a little louder, like "you really have to try something," because they sometimes don't dare. They've been tucked away for a long time. Somebody's got to say, "Oh, go do volunteer work," "go to that course" or whatever. People are very happy that someone has given them a boost. I recognize that myself from my Utrecht days. So, yes, Mr. Van Dijk, I don't like mistrust either, but sometimes we have to force people to take that one step, also because they're usually very happy that happened afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mr. Chairman. More work should be more attractive, because all talents will be needed in the coming years. The question then is whether we should work with fewer people much and much harder or whether it is also possible to work a little harder together. A large proportion of Dutch workers work in small jobs. The Netherlands is part-time champion. In the last few days, I've seen it come along a few times. 400,000 out of 4 million part-time workers want to work more hours. McKinsey calculated that in health and education, where many women work part-time, the current labour market shortages like snow for the sun disappear when part-time workers start working a few hours a week more. What stands in the way of doing that? McKinsey also calculated that our gross national product would increase by tens of billions if part-time workers started working more. I have argued before that it is imperative that our economy continues to grow. So, part-timers, ask for extra hours. That sounds like a nice easy call, but still very little happens. And employers: offer more hours. As long as the number of working hours per week is not a regular topic in the conversation between an employer and an employee, we continue to waste talent. As far as I am concerned, the number of working hours must be a recurring topic in the discussions between employer and worker. It should not be a static element in a contract, but an arrangement that can be adjusted throughout the course of life. The VVD therefore wants it to be possible to temporarily increase the number of hours in a contract of employment, so that you don't have to break the whole contract but you just get one, two, three, maybe four years more hours. In times of great tightness we hope to give this discussion an extra boost. Mr. Chairman. But that's not enough, of course. The Court expects an in-depth examination of part-time work at the end of the year. I expect that research will clarify what is needed to remove obstacles to people's work. I expect this minister, together with his colleagues from OCW and VWS, where both the part-time factor and the deficits are the largest, to develop a successful approach. Without this study in December, of course, we already know a lot about the obstacles experienced by part-time workers, often women, when they want to work more and what can tempt part-time workers to work more hours a week. More work must, of course, also yield more. Unfortunately, this does not always make sense within the Dutch systems. By means of surcharges and levies, it happens literally that a raise of a few tens leads to a financial decline. Fortunately, this cabinet has now adapted some of these oddities, such as the rent surcharge, by January. That's good news. However, municipal regulations have not always meant that people who are going to work more are also improving in practice. We ask the Cabinet to give an insight into the effects of municipal surcharges in its response to the reporting part-time. Can the Minister undertake to do so? Childcare and school hours play a major role in choosing the number of hours worked. But also the opinion of other mothers on the school square, how you used to be at home and how your parents had divided it, play a role. The government does not direct public opinion, nor does it direct the culture we experience at home. And that's a good thing. Please don't, I'd say. However, as my colleague Rudmer Heerema said during the OCW budget debate, some of the over 100-year-old systems in this country really are no longer of this time. In my weekly conversations with working mothers and fathers on Monday, one of the most important topics is school hours and transportation to hobbies and clubs. As long as parents are stuck in there, it remains very difficult to work more hours, no matter how much they want to. I ask the Minister not to avoid taboos when he starts working on the results of IBO part-time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u86	I have also heard Mrs Tielen in the media over the last few days about the state of salvation that we are building as two parents, all of us, are going to work full-time. Anyone who wants to do so must do so. But is that the society that Mrs Tielen sees before her?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u87	It's contagious. I'm being put in my mouth words that are really nowhere to be found. I haven't argued that everyone has to work full-time. I would like to point out that many part-time workers would like to work a few hours a week more and that this also has enormous effects. When we talk about parents or partners or families that arrange at home, it's really up to those people themselves. But we already know that hundreds of thousands of part-time workers would like to work a few hours more a week. Some people already do that, for example because they are called by the employer on Sunday evening with the question: we have sick; can you please work a few more hours this week? Those people should also be able to work more hours on the basis of a temporary extension of their contract. Let's make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u88	In my contribution, I will soon draw attention to a society with a little more peace. We've all got a burnout and we're on the couch with the psychologist. I think we need attention and rest in this society. You often don't get out of business as a caretaker. Think also of caring for children, and indeed walking from violin lessons to the sports fields. These things take a lot of time. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that it is actually very valuable that people can also work part-time? Does she agree with me that taking care of children and family care at the same time can be an excellent consideration for welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u89	Those are two questions, Mr President. This MP, this Mrs. Tielen, doesn't want to dictate how people set up their lives. I am liberal and I am convinced that people themselves can choose the best way to organise their work, their lives and their families and how much rest they want to do it or not. I want it to be easier for people who want to work more to get that choice and to be able to meet with their employer. Quite frankly, sometimes larger numbers of hours per week are even more soothing than everything in that one and a half day trying to plot. If Mr Bruins asks if caring for a family is in return for the assistance, then I do not think that this is entirely in line with the way I look at the world, even if it is just because Mr Bruins might imply a little bit that with all the talents we need, women who find them mainly in their families. Well, I don't know if it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u90	How wonderful to see that Mrs Tielen can also put words in other people's mouths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u91	Well, then it's 1-1.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u92	I think men can take very good care of children. Mrs. Tielen says she wants freedom of choice for families. How the salary comes in, whether it's with twice half working, with one and a half working times or with twice full-time work, is up to the people themselves. That is good, that freedom of choice graces the liberals in this Chamber, but at the same time we have established a tax system in this country with surcharges and discounts, which means that that freedom of choice is not really there anymore. With the pumping up of the labour discount, now again in August at 2.1 billion, there is less and less freedom of choice. In the meantime, people who have to live on a moral salary can't even buy a house anymore except in Zeeland or Groningen. Do I therefore find Mrs Tielen behind me where the Christian Union says that taxes should be levied on carrying capacity? There needs to be a major tax review, which will look back at how much money comes in per household and what is fair taxation. I would like to hang out with the liberals who are so keen on freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u93	This interruption counts for four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u94	Yeah, it's hard. To be honest, I did not intend to question the whole tax system. I think there's been a separate WHO left over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr. Bruins knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u96	Mr. Bruins wants me to say something else, and I'm not gonna say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u97	In this country, too, half of women are still not economically independent. Let's not forget that either. So I find the emphasis on how we can seduce people and make it easier to work a few hours more if they now have a small part-time job, wise. That's good for those people, and I think it's good for places where we're short. But Mrs Tielen said something very interesting at the end. She said: I call on the Minister to look at that ibo part-time without taboos. One of the important issues is childcare, and I have always had a bit of a taboo of the VVD, namely that it is only a labour market tool. As far as D66 is concerned, it is also important for the development of children. It could also be a little wider, and we might need a lot less childcare allowance. Does Mrs Tielen agree with D66 that we really need to look at all forms of child care in those studies, even in the sense that you are making it a development right for children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u98	In addition to childcare, there are many other obstacles in this part-time work. So I'm always sorry to bring that all the way back to families with young children, because we've widely seen a lot more part-timers. I don't shy away from taboos, either. We have always said that it is not the intention of the government to commit itself to a state education, at least if that is what Mr Van Weyenberg implies but what he probably does not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mrs Tielen has now managed to put some real and some half things in my mouth once. There is, of course, compulsory schooling, but childcare is also good for the development of children, for equality of opportunity, for freedom in life after this. That supplement that we have now is really causing serious problems, so would Mrs Tielen want to abandon her party's taboo to look at it more broadly than just as a labour market tool? No one wants state education, but I want what's best for all our young children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u100	I notice no one wants state education. In any case, I note that D66 and the VVD do not want that. I know very well what Mr Van Weyenberg is saying, but I think we have something else in mind. But once again, we too will really look with an open eye at everything that is needed. To this we will draw the conclusions that we believe are best for the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u101	Before Mrs Tielen puts certain words in my mouth, let me just say that I am here today with my brother. We were mostly raised by our father. It was because of certain circumstances. Then I'm sure you'll know that I think men can be great at raising. That's one. But my question is another. I liked the little debate between Mr Bruins and Mrs Tielen: if you are liberal, you must let families fill in their lives as they wish. A family in which the husband or wife earns €40,000 pays almost €10,000 tax, but if they both earn €20,000, they do not pay €2,000 tax at once. Doesn't Mrs. Tielen think that's incredibly unliberal? If I were to table a motion to declare that we should agree, will she support me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u102	The answer is 'no', apart from the fact that we are not looking at the whole tax system today; I think that happened two weeks ago. No, I don't think so. In the coming years we really need all the talents of everyone; that's how I started this story. All people have different talents, and we all need them. I just really want us to be able to continue teaching our children, taking care of the sick and maintaining our level of prosperity. That's just what we need to work for. That's what we need people for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u103	Of course, I agree with Mrs Tielen that we must take care of all that, but we must also be able to take care of our families. I note here that Mrs Tielen has a non-liberal position on this issue. People are not allowed to choose for themselves, but are all obliged to do all these other tasks. The job in the family just lets the VVD go, even if people want to choose for it. I am very sorry about that, and I do not think that is a liberal thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr. Stoffer may think so; we then disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u105	It is an important issue, because there is a shortage of labour, we want people to participate and we want people to work part-time, some extra hours, if they are willing to. But there is indeed also a family situation, with tasks at home, to take care of the family. While research has already been done on a way to approach and seduce the people who work part-time to work extra, little research has been done on a way to facilitate families to combine these tasks. I would like to comment on this in my contribution and I would like to ask that this be investigated. Do I find Mrs Tielen on my side, looking at the balance between work and the situation at home, to combine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u106	I should first like to hear what else Mrs Palland has to say about this and how she intends to draw up the research questions. What we're doing now is interesting. When we talk about part-timers, we talk about women very quickly. The figures show that too. Then we think: then there will be something with the family. In my opinion, this happens very often to employers and employees: the lady has a young family; then we should not ask her if she wants to work more hours. Let women and men report for themselves and at home also discuss well with each other how they want to organise their work and their lives. One needs very different things than the other. If Mrs Palland wants to investigate this, I am fine with that, but let us not fill in the details. I think it happens too often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u107	I didn't mention women working part-time. There are also men working part-time. Whatever the composition of a family is, there is, of course, a variety of forms of family life. However, there must be a balance between good home arrangements with each other, with children, family care and so on, and taking part in the labour market. It is precisely in order to maintain that balance that I ask for support from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u108	And a lot of families do that very well. In all kinds of forms, as Mrs Palland has already announced. My last topic is "keep learning." That's what I call it, because I think it's such a term to develop a lifelong life. I say keep learning. During the general consultation on lifelong learning, I mentioned an example of a successful educational initiative for people who had already been almost written off: the Codam College. I have indicated how difficult it is to get public support for this in one way or another. In mention today another initiative: Care Watch. This is a particularly Utrecht initiative where women with a distance from the labour market, often low-skilled, are trained to caregivers and almost all get paid jobs in home care and often want to do a higher level of care. It is very inspiring to hear from these women what learning and valuable work does with their self-confidence. Suddenly, there's another perspective for the future. Suddenly they discover that they are actually quite ambitious and that they prefer to have a career rather than remain dependent on agencies or their partners or ex-partners. The initiators of Zorgwacht are in conversation with many municipalities. As Mrs Van Brenk said, municipalities then turn out to be reluctant to abandon the job application obligation. Or they refuse to allow women to follow this route for a year, while we see that the chances of getting paid work are enormous if these women do get a chance. The question is, also to the Secretary of State, what can we do about it? Does she see these obstacles? Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to make more room for support for such initiatives. Because they are often innovative ideas and are set up outside of regular frameworks, they often fall outside the existing rules, the pilots and the possibilities. What does the Minister intend to do to support this type of initiative? I'd like a response. Can the Minister, together with colleges of higher education, undertake a practical study of the impact of these atypical initiatives on the flow to paid employment and its social benefits? I would like to find out on the basis of which rules other than the current ones can be predicted what the societal value of such innovative pathways is, so that, on this basis, we can also come up with smarter public-private support. Mr. Chairman. Before I close, I have another question for the Secretary of State on safety at work. Working with large devices is not as safe as people use alcohol or drugs. And yet employers responsible for safety at work are not allowed to carry out alcohol, drugs or medicine tests. Because of the GDPR, I understand. But the Secretary of State would come at the end of the year with at least a direction for a solution. She promised that to my colleague, Mr Smalls. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. Every talent is needed in the coming years. That is why it is very important that the value of work is felt by everyone and is also experienced by everyone, in a profession that already exists or with work that we cannot yet imagine, for anyone who wants to contribute to a free, safe and prosperous society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u109	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I now give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mr. Chairman. A lot of people have their business done just fine. They have a nice home, a nice family, a good income from a job that suits them or they run their own company that they commit themselves to every day. A job that gives regularity in life is important for people. It gives autonomy, direction over one's own life, happiness and self-confidence. And colleague Tielen was just talking about talent and perspective at work, and thus about the importance of having a grip on your life. And in order to get and keep a grip on life, directing your wallet is also important. Of course, working and therefore income is the most important way to keep the direction and thus stay out of debt and poverty. That is what the first part of our speech was about. But sometimes, unfortunately, things get a little bit less in life. Because of violent bumps, life events such as divorce, job loss or bankruptcy, it can just be that everything gets out of hand. This not only has great consequences for your self-confidence, but it can also have major consequences for your financial situation and cause you to suddenly face debt and poverty. And that adds to the complexity of society. It also sometimes makes the direction rather difficult. And if your parents didn't really tell you how to handle your money carefully, it's all gonna be very difficult. We know that poverty and debt are often passed on from generation to generation. This is also very strikingly expressed in the book "Het pauperparadise." I commend this to everyone, but it must be passed on. Under Secretary of State Van Ark, through the broad debt approach, is actively involved in the roll-out of some 40 measures, e.g. the Maximisation of an accumulation of fines and the extension of payment possibilities in that context. That's great. Almost all bets are on schedule. We have also discussed this in detail recently. I would add a few more points in this debate. I start with an appeal to municipalities to focus more on prevention, with the aim of giving each one the opportunity to keep direction on his own wallet. As far as the VVD is concerned, municipalities by default include a prevention paragraph in their poverty schemes. Prevention as a new standard and the start of each package of debt relief measures. Let the municipalities work with schools in order to reach the youngest generations. Initiatives like MoneyWays and Money Start deserve all the space. They listen to young people and they use experience experts to reach young people at school. The knowledge and skills of such organisations are really needed for prevention projects. They deserve all the support they can get. If someone is at risk of getting into debt, early warning is very important to avoid worsening. If you're late paying your rent or your energy bill, that could be a signal of upcoming problems. This week we provided our written input on the amendment of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act. The VVD is satisfied with the commitment of the Secretary of State. Although we also have a few questions, it is a good thing that data exchange should be easier to get there earlier. That saves a lot of money in later stages. Perhaps the Secretary of State could explain how she sees it. The use of algorithms and data could also help. The Dutch Schuldhulproute and Geldfit.nl are good examples of this in terms of the VVD. Those who talk about early warning cannot, of course, ignore the surcharges. This is also an example of the complexity of society. The mess of demands and conditions for surcharges and the systems to pay them and to recover them, it has all become very complicated. Increases are very important for five million households to pay care, childcare and rent. The surcharges are targeted and timely. Many appreciate that very much. But the resulting lack of certainty as to whether you have received the right amount ensures that there are 2.3 million recoveries every year. Fortunately, for the vast majority of people, it is possible to resolve this recovery neatly and without problems. However, there is also a large group, of at least 52,000 people, which has an open payment debt. This is particularly problematic in the case of lower incomes because the amount of the supplement is high and the income is low. This leads to painful cases, to problematic debts. Our colleagues in the Finance Committee are working hard on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u111	The VVD sketches a recognizable picture, namely that many people get into trouble because of the surcharges, because they have had to pay back too much and can't do that anymore, because the money has already been spent. Shouldn't the problem simply be solved by raising the minimum wage and also the related benefits? When the base level is higher, people don't need those surcharges anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u112	I think the Cabinet is doing a lot to raise the basic level. In this way, the child benefit is increased. The care allowance for couples is increased. Taxes have fallen and more measures have been taken. They all have an effect on the benefits. Of course, these are good measures; the VVD strongly supports them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mrs. Van Brenk, you're having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u114	I did not get an answer to the question whether it would be wise to raise the minimum wage. For example, we see at the AOW that almost everyone gets €25 income support. Then you would say: increase the AOW by €25. Then we don't have to make another arrangement. The same applies to the minimum wage. If we raise that a little bit, we don't have to pay all kinds of fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u115	If you don't answer me again, all these interruptions won't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u116	Well, Mr. President, I'd like to give Mrs. Van Brenk all the interruptions. I'm totally fine with it. This is a very complicated question, because of course it is actually about the way in which we have arranged the whole house. How did we set up the surcharges? There's a lot of thinking about how to do things differently. As far as I am concerned, all options could be open in the future, but that is not the point. It is precisely the way in which we deal with the surcharge system that is causing problems for people. I would like to make a few comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u117	Okay, then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u118	That's nice, because as far as the VVD is concerned, people are leading the surcharges and of course not the system or the Tax Administration. It should be made clearer to people that they need to pass on interim changes to income or life events so that the supplement can be adjusted. It must also be made very simple to do so. It should not be the case that you have to pass on the same information via multiple points of contact. That can only lead to noise. In the spring, the cabinet will present proposals on the current examination of the system. For now, I'd like to hear this. In the meantime, how could municipalities early indicate that residents are also in trouble in connection with surcharges? How can municipalities help their residents to ask for a personal payment scheme or apply or reduce the premium-free rate? Is the Secretary of State committed to ensuring that the streamlining of taxes and surcharges does not exceed the responsibility of this sometimes very vulnerable group? Furthermore, I heard that it is not possible for municipalities to start a debt relief process if the level of debt is not yet clear. This can, of course, occur in the complex payment routes, where incorrect information may have been passed on, so that someone in trouble also has to wait for help. Does the Secretary of State recognize this noise in the municipalities she speaks? If so, what opportunities does it see for municipalities to provide services as early as possible? On a number of points I ask for a tooth from municipalities. I therefore hope that they will take this up as a matter of urgency. I'll start with an effort on good service. If someone knocks, they should not get out of sight, even if a trajectory cannot be started immediately. Grab it and hold it, and get on a trajectory as soon as possible. That must be the motto. Encourage municipalities to set their ambitions on this. Then I'll come to the entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs in trouble are often empty-handed when they knock for help. Too often we hear that the municipal commitment is shady, that it is not there at all or that knowledge is lacking. We hear from entrepreneurs that they are asked to opt out as entrepreneurs and to apply for benefits. But, of course, we want a start where possible. The question that municipalities should therefore ask themselves is whether they have sufficient knowledge or if necessary have hired in terms of entrepreneurs. My question to the Secretary of State is: how often is the Decision providing assistance to the self-employed used by municipalities to help entrepreneurs? Is there any legal embarrassment among municipalities to use this instrument? Can the Secretary of State do something extra to ensure that entrepreneurs can continue to take action through the Bbz where possible? In addition, we often see people falling back into old habits and building debts after a few years, mainly in the case of consumer loans and health insurance premiums. Falling back is such a shame when people have worked so hard to pay off the debts. Where municipalities have very good measures to help people, for example the Housekeeping booklet in Utrecht, I think that at the same time, I mean at the same time in time, they need to use aid to prevent it from going wrong again later. Allow municipalities to combine each aid measure directly with a learning path so that people can take their own responsibility as soon as possible. And I also have the impression that if there is a Wsnp trajectory, of debt restructuring, there is no consideration either for taking back the direction of a learning path. That's right, I'll ask the Secretary of State. What aftercare success factors can debt relief workers use to prevent future debt? Wouldn't it be wise to start with this aftercare if the rehabilitation process is still running? Mr. Chairman. Earlier, I have been critical of companies that abuse financially vulnerable customers by selling them too easily, for example using postcode targets for down payment purchases. Especially when it comes to large companies, think of the web stores, which can accurately estimate the default rate and simply put it into the prices. They deliberately get people into trouble with that. Their lack of restraint will cost society money. In the case of a possible debt settlement, this is also at the expense of small entrepreneurs who have a claim. That is not corporate social responsibility. Can the Secretary of State explain again what steps are being taken to prevent consumers from buying products that they cannot actually pay for? I think it would be wise for the cabinet to talk to, for example, VNO-NCW to include criteria about paying off or cooperating in debt relief processes within the domain of corporate social responsibility. I understand that agreements are made with large companies to agree flexibly when a debt relief scheme is offered. That's good. However, I am concerned about the position of the small entrepreneur who owes money and needs it to keep his company running. At the same time, I would like to ask what bottlenecks small entrepreneurs experience in the responsible recovery of outstanding debts. In what way is a creditor's ability assessed when establishing a scheme? Can these small entrepreneurs now easily support workers in debt? Those are projects that I hear about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u119	I am glad that the VVD is paying so much attention to the debt issue. It is very much about prevention and early warning. I think the word "municipality" has already fallen about 40 times. Does Mr Wörsdörfer also want to say something about the government from his point of view on the debt issue? Does the VVD recognise that the government itself is often also responsible for large debts or does not solve the problems that people are in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u120	I have actually mentioned all three parties that can be at the basis of debts. First of all, the municipalities; I have not mentioned them 40 times, but I have called them a number of times for action. I have spoken to companies that are putting vulnerable consumers in trouble. And, of course, I recognized, when I was talking about the surcharges, that the government can also be at the root of getting people into trouble. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u121	So if there are proposals from the Chamber for a far-reaching simplification of the supplement system, for example when it comes to childcare, then the VVD supports it too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u122	It could be. I don't know. There is, of course, still going to be talk about the whole system of allowances and the way in which it is set up. I have made a number of points which I think we should do something about right now to ensure that the troubles do not now lead to situations where people cannot pay back their money at once. We are undoubtedly going to talk a lot about the system here. As far as I'm concerned, there are no taboos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u123	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to close with the following. Prevention is better than cure, hence my plea for prevention and early warning. Learning budgeting allows you to control your life and your wallet, and that's what I'm giving everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u125	I still have a question for Mr Wörsdörfer. I know him as someone who has a heart for entrepreneurs and a heart for innovation. In such a budget, you always have to make choices in what you talk about and what you don't. Around this ministry I always like to hang out with colleagues from the VVD and the CDA for innovation and asbestos rehabilitation. In fact, I had hoped that Mr Wörsdörfer would also press for steps to be taken. We have already tabled four motions on this subject, all of which have been adopted by the Chamber and which have not yet been followed up. I wonder if Mr Wörsdörfer would also like to know from the people in Box K whether concrete steps will be taken and when will be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u126	Do you have those motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u127	I think that is an excellent question to ask the cabinet. So here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u128	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Wörsdörfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-5.u129	I would now like to suspend the sitting until 1:55 p.m. We will then swear a new colleague of the PVV, followed by a short settlement. Then we proceed with the first term of office.
