ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next VAA on the agenda concerns the informal JHA Council in Bucharest. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am strongly in favour of countries helping each other if there is a need, for example in the event of major forest fires or floods. Let us work together, above all, in the region, as is happening now. That's solidarity. What has very little to do with solidarity but very much to do with European involvement and waste is the new European project rescEU. I call that a European fire department myself. It is about maintaining reserve capacity to pull out in the event of disasters. It will not lead to an efficient use of resources if we are to maintain fire-fighting aircraft, water pumps, field beds and medical emergency teams at European level. And it costs hundreds of millions of euros. I believe that the Netherlands should oppose this. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas disaster response is primarily a matter for the Member States themselves;]] [[noting that countries are naturally prepared to assist each other in the event of major fires or floods, and that further arrangements could be made on this matter if necessary;]] [[Whereas there is now a proposal to maintain reserve capacity from the European Union (rescEU) for all types of crises, i.e. fire extinguishers, water pumps, rescue teams, field hospitals and medical emergency teams;]] [[having noted that this amounts to more than EUR 200 million, which is largely financed from the EU budget;]] [[considers that it is not clear at all how the rescEU plan will lead to an efficient use of resources;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the creation of rescEU and to step up its efforts to improve cooperation between Member States on a voluntary basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-539]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u4	Thank you. Then the floor is for Mrs Laan-Geselschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We discussed rescEU at the AO, among other things. There were many other topics. This is an interesting subject and at first it also seems to be a wonderful development: one emergency response team for the whole of Europe. However, the VVD believes that strengthening mutual cooperation on a voluntary basis between Member States is a much better step. The Netherlands shall support other Member States there where necessary and other Member States shall do so among themselves. The proposal to establish rescEU therefore seems to be somewhat superfluous. It is also strange that the proposed rescEU would help non-EU Member States such as Iceland and Turkey. Voluntary aid and the improvement of mutual cooperation are sufficient. The VVD can therefore largely agree with Mr Van Nispen's questions and words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u6	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. You can answer directly if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u7	Mr. Chairman. A compromise was reached between the Council and the European Parliament in December 2018 on the revision of the already existing EU civil protection mechanism. The negotiations have been going on for a year. That mechanism has been in place since 2013; we need to realise that. It consisted of a voluntary pool of material and teams from Member States that can assist in disaster response on request. New is rescEU. This is a budget for the purchase of disaster response materials for all Member States, further strengthening of the existing voluntary pool and support for preventive measures. What has the Netherlands done? In the negotiations on this subject, I also kept the Chamber informed. The Netherlands has committed itself to the national responsibility of Member States to build up their own capacity, to prevent as a priority, to use rescEU only in the most extreme cases and primarily within the EU's borders and, finally, to focus on all types of disasters and crises. In the compromise that has now been reached, this Dutch commitment is clearly reflected. It is an acceptable balance between responsibility and solidarity. Point one: the committee cannot purchase its own items, according to the Dutch commitment. The principle of co-financing has been maintained. This means that Member States themselves feel and have to take responsibility by taking on part of the funding. In terms of purchase costs, this means equipment that is covered between 80% and 90% from the EU budgets. This could include fire fighting aircraft, helicopters or medical teams, but also equipment for chemical, biological and radiological or nuclear incidents. An exception is the 100% financing of low-risk and high-impact risks, as EU-wide cooperation is desirable for risks that countries cannot prepare for individually. Think, for example, of large-scale incidents involving chemical or nuclear substances. The operational use of rescEU funds will be paid for 75% by the EU and will be borne by the Member States for 25%; that is point four. That is the same distribution of costs as there is now in the already existing voluntary pool. The core is that rescEU is intended for extreme situations. So think of very large forest fires in several countries, such as last summer, or the threat of a very large forest fire. In the case of a large forest fire, it is not so much a question of borrowing from another Member State. Then the use of this equipment at EU level is justified. A fifth point is "it's a whole list of "it's' that the mechanism remains applicable to all types of crises. The sixth and final point is that a form of reporting obligation has been included for Member States that frequently activate the mechanism, so that the Commission can make recommendations and opinions on it. That is also according to the Dutch wish. Finally, I would like to say that the budget for 2019-2020 has been agreed. That's EUR 205.6 million. As Mr Van Nispen rightly pointed out in the general consultation, this is less than initially foreseen. 50% of this budget comes from the redistribution of the current EU budget and 50% from the flexibility instrument, i.e. new money from the Member States. For the years thereafter, this will be negotiated within the framework of the new Multiannual Financial Framework. Finally, the current budget for civil protection for the period 2014-2020 is € 386.4 million. Mr. Chairman. If we know this, we will find that this has been very well-balanced. There is equally an interest for the Netherlands, as it has been found that the capacities available in the voluntary pool were not in all cases sufficient to meet demand. And that is at the expense of human lives. There is also damage to buildings, the environment and businesses. Again, for major crises and very large incidents with a major impact or cases that occur in several Member States at the same time, where national capacities are not sufficient, it is good to have rescEU. This can also benefit the Netherlands. I admit that it is now starting to be a very nice story, but I want to make it very clear that there are good grounds for this, that there is a good distribution of spending and that there is a very good control mechanism in it. The AA also mentioned that the European Court of Auditors, of course, controls the efficient and legitimate expenditure of the budget. I must therefore discourage the motion in this respect, because the Dutch Government considers rescEU to be a responsible decision in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u8	The motion is dissuaded. Mrs. Laan has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u9	I would like to hear from the Minister why the documents that have reached us state that the main problem was regional cooperation between certain countries. How will that be better when a European apparatus or something else is being flown in, as you just said? My second question is about disasters and dramatic misery; earlier in my studies I was given the book Rampen, riots, hostages. What could be the specific issue in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u10	I have learned that as Minister of Justice and Security, I must certainly be careful to give examples. That might create unnecessary concerns for people. Let me say first of all that we in the Netherlands are extremely vigilant about all kinds of disasters. But it is also conceivable in the Netherlands that a great disaster suddenly occurs in nature. In the Netherlands, it is equally conceivable that circumstances that could not be properly foreseen may cause a calamity once, for example in the field of chemistry, as was the case in Moerdijk a few years ago. It has not been said that disasters are always catastrophes. That is also what this is about, which as a Member State is best able to solve on its own. With regard to regional cooperation, the idea is that RescEU will also encourage it, because these capacities are acquired jointly by a number of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u11	Then I am still surprised at the pieces of text we have read, in which Iceland and Turkey are also mentioned. Can the Minister still reflect on that? Those aren't exactly countries that are within our reach. I do not see the added value of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u12	I ask the Minister to do this briefly, because we are not going to have a debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u13	To the extent that countries meet and participate in the criteria applicable to RescEU, this is not, in principle, restricted to EU Member States. Countries such as Iceland and Turkey also need to meet the strict requirements for their use and to make a contribution, including financially. Both the European Court of Auditors and the Commission carry out checks on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u14	Thank you. Then we've come to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-30.u15	This motion will also be put to the vote on Tuesday.
