ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the law on the abolition of merger tests in basic education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	The first speaker in this debate is Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. This legislative amendment implements an agreement from the government agreement, the agreement to remove the merger test in primary education and to remove it in secondary education in the event of shrinkage. The fusion test was once designed to prevent large-scale education. D66 still agrees with the spirit of that law. Control within education must remain at the level of schools. But the instrument of the fusion test failed. Seven of the 219 merger applications were finally refused. Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is important that the deletion of the test does not make a merger easy. It remains a very careful process at local level that requires the consent of participation. My question to the Minister is: what support can the participation council get in this complicated process? Mr. Chairman. The change of law is about the moment of merger. At that time there must be support for pupils, parents and staff and there must be good checks-and-balances. But what happens after that? What instruments are there if a merger does not work out as expected, if the merger has disadvantages for educational quality or if a school experiences too little control? It seems that schools can't get out once they're merged; that's Mr.Kwint's famous Hotel California. That's a fair picture. This creates ugly excesses in practice. For example, think of the administration in Maastricht, which has a complete monopoly in the region. After the abuses, schools could not choose to continue on their own. One of the guarantees given by the Minister is that a fusion impact assessment will be drawn up in which an evaluation is agreed. Can the Minister explain what happens after a negative assessment of the merger and is it generally a one-off evaluation, or is it a recurring process, with regular consideration of the effects of cooperation? And can it be agreed in advance that in the event of a negative assessment the merger will be terminated? You can compare this to a marriage. At the time of marriage, you can still think that love is forever. I speak from experience: I have been married for 36 years. I can tell you that I have a very nice wife. So this doesn't come from that, but you hear that things are different. After three years, the situation could be completely different. Then it's good that the option to divorce is there. D66 is convinced that defuse should be a possibility, of course in a responsible manner and with a thorough and careful process, while also taking into account the interests of other schools within the board. I'd like a response from the Minister. But to take a first step in this direction, Mr Rog and I have tabled an amendment. Mr. Chairman. D66 is also for cooperation between schools or school boards. Some problems, such as the shortage of teachers, require regional cooperation. This does not require mergers or pseudo-fusions, but rather more binding agreements between schools or administrations. Can the Minister explain what other forms of cooperation are possible to ensure the participation of parents, pupils and staff at the same time? That's it, Mr. Chairman. As you will understand, my group supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	It's an enlightening question. In order to test the gravity of the instrument against the practice, I would like to have an idea of how often it happens that schools would like to leave a collaboration or a merger. I don't have a picture of that myself. You seem to have the idea that this happens quite often, because you are also tabling an amendment to make this possible. If it happens once or twice, I find it very difficult, but when it comes to 100 schools, it might be nice to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	I do not know whether the number here should be so decisive, but I do think that there are situations in which there really is a question of 'incarceration', one might almost say 'incarceration'. And if it were just one, I would think that there should be an opportunity for that, but I think there are more situations where it would be good to reconsider things for once. That may even mean that a school will end up with another board, where that makes more sense. They're gonna try that, too. Sometimes that comes up against the merger test. My own picture at the fusion test is that it is typically an instrument that came when the calf drowned, because the whole scale increase in education had already taken place when the fusion test came. Now it is an instrument that places particular obstacles on schools in, for example, shrinking areas, where it is very necessary that this link is created.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	I am a little surprised by Mr Van Meenen's plea, because Mr Van Meenen is very critical of large boards. He also says that participation must have a say, and I am entirely in favour of that. He also referred to the example of LVO, but at the end of the speech Mr Van Meenen says that his group supports the proposal. Why does D66 support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	The merger test doesn't end large boards at all. The fusion test lets large driving uninhibited. The only thing the fusion test does or could do is to prevent the arrival of new big governments, but the porridge has long been deposited. Those big boards are already here. I have a very different way of strengthening the position of schools, for example in basic education, by sending the money there. We will talk about this later, but that is a very different approach in order to strengthen that position again. The merger test does not change the scale of the education in the Netherlands and at that time that was the theorem of those who were before it. It just doesn't occur at all, because in the MBO, in higher education, where all that had happened a long time ago, it was already done. The merger test doesn't do anything about that. And in secondary education, for example, that is the case. The OMO existed a long time ago and the merger test did not change that. Well, I'm not saying it's a bad administration, not at all, but I can still call it a few boards. If you really want to do something about scaling up, then you need to tackle the scaling up that is already active. Again, I don't know if Mrs Westerveld agrees with me, but the merger test doesn't do anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	I don't think so. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	It's a useless tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	Well, then I'm very curious to see all the proposals to tackle the scaling up now. I am also a little surprised about the explanation, because the merger test is an additional check on how those procedures have gone. It's an extra way to stop thinking about mergers anyway. That is why I am very surprised that D66 says: we support this proposal and we are pleased that there is no further check on the intention to merge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	But the mergers that have been reviewed since the merger test came are not at all scaling, large-scale mergers. All of that had happened before. What you and others wanted to stop with the merger test already existed. You haven't done anything about it since then. It is an instrument that now only small schools in rural areas stand in the way of doing good for children. That is my view of it. It always has been, and it always will be. This is without prejudice to the fact that I am not in favour of this scale either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	I think D66's fatalism is special: we've already lost anyway, so we're gonna get rid of the thing. It may be indicative of the party's position in the cabinet, but I don't think it really is... Then we're gonna change it, right? Isn't this how we can stop more big school domes from coming? If Mr Van Meenen says 'we should also make it easier to cut up school domes', I would say: throw that in such a merger test. For example, insert a defusion test next to it and see what can happen with it. But Mr Van Meenen only says: this does not work, so we stop doing so, but we do not oppose it either. I think you can put serious doubts as to whether this doesn't work. D66 also didn't give at home when the SP suggested cutting up LVO, the dome you're talking about, which you think is way too big. So what's D66 gonna do now to reverse this massive increase in scale? What can we expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	I hope we agree that the merger test does not do anything about it. Indeed, since the merger test came, there have been no plans for large scale expansion in this country. They're just not there, because they were already there. That is typical of the SP: we call out a lot, but the instrument we use does nothing against scaling up. I do things, D66 does things. Two things we do. One. We have Rog, CDA and D66 amendments. This is a step which should make it possible for the step towards defusion to be taken with such an evaluation. That could therefore be the answer to the situation in Limburg. And the second thing I do is, with my bill coming up, strengthens the position of schools within the board. Actually, I'm making the board that's there less relevant and I'm going back to what it's all about. And that's the school on the corner where you're taking your kid. That's what it's all about in the end. So I do things, and I wonder what Mr Kwint is doing, if I may ask. 'Cause all he's doing is saying, no, the merger test has to stay. That's an impotent instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	I'll try not to dwell on that. I think Mr Van Meenen knows very well what we are doing. In fact, we have put forward a proposal that would allow a school, if participation so wishes, to get out of a school dome immediately. Mr Van Meenen then sent an e-mail two days later. So I do not have the idea that Mr Van Meenen is not aware of the proposals made by the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	Yes, I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	Why not simply invest in participation, which does have an important role in the ex ante assessment of the merger? As soon as the co-determination says she wants to leave the school board, we quit the school board. Why such a weak variant, in which things are recorded in appointments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	If you seriously believe that parents and participation should be placed in a position, then you support my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	Then you say, "If the mr says so, they'll get out."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	The proposal that Mr Rog and I are making takes a step in this direction. That proposal should make that possible. But from my own experience I also say that you should not get some kind of cherrypicking, where the mr at any time, if it suits her, says: we get out for a while. As a result of the merger, the interests of schools have become interconnected. There could be solidarity in that, too. You have to deal with that very carefully. And what Mr Kwint is proposing now is very rugged: if participation has said it, you are free the next day. Then Mr Kwint has no idea what is needed to ensure that this is done in a good, careful way, including for the staff and for the pupils. So we want the same thing, but I want it carefully and you want it rough. I hope the careful path wins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	Well, I don't think we want the same thing at all. I find it very strange that in this legislative proposal participation is given ultimate control over the question "are we going to merge or not?" ...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	It already is. It already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	If you will allow me to finish my sentence:... but then do not have the authority to do the same in reverse. Participation may decide when to step in, but not when to step out. Look, either you have faith in participation, and then it is both right, or you say that we should not allow participation to take place, but they should not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	I understand what you're saying. In the end, I also think that participation has a very important role to play in this, but the merger decision, with which the participations of individual schools or administrations have agreed, makes it a bit like trying to tear apart a scrambled egg. If that is possible, this must be done with extreme care, because the decision to merge suddenly eliminates the question of individual units. That's exactly the problem I'm raising in my bill. The interests are very closely linked, because there is one pot of money and that board decides on that. That's the legal position. If you want to break that up again, it requires extraordinary care, both from the school that wants it and from the other schools. We call on the Minister to take a very good look at this effect, which is the result of a negative fusion impact assessment, and to show what is needed to enable what you and I both want, namely defusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Van Meenen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	You too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	Then Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. We have been facing a significant drop in the number of students in the Netherlands for years. Shrimp areas are therefore disproportionately affected. In some regions this is well prepared. I often mention the Achterhoek as a good example. The school is an important part of the region where you live. It'd be nice if your kids could go to a school in the neighborhood. Then I come to the merger test, which often turns out to be too big a threshold to merge and to cooperate more intensively. It is precisely education in the region that needs cooperation in order to provide and continue to provide a high quality and accessible education. This cooperation is of the utmost importance. Where we decided in 2011 to introduce the fusion test, precisely to counter large educational colossals and to focus on more small scale, it appears that this law has an undesirable effect on shrinkage. For me, therefore, it is only logical that we have looked at the effects of this law in order to determine whether it is not wiser to abolish the merger test, precisely in the interests of accessible and high-quality education. In order to promote responsibility and opportunities in the region, I believe that it would be wiser to abolish the merger test. It was in our election programme, it is in the coalition agreement, and now we are going to make this final step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr. Heerema is right. Congratulations. It was their idea to abolish it, and now it is really going to be abolished, because he has managed to convince three parties of it. Often the argument is used that cooperation in shrinking regions is made impossible. We've had the merger test for less than ten years now. How many schools have disappeared in shrinking regions due to the merger test?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	We have seen, for example, that it is becoming more difficult for the islands to cooperate with schools on the mainland. I see it in my own region in schools in small towns like Limmen, Zuidschermer or Obdam. They struggle to achieve good cooperation because the threshold for wider cooperation is considered to be greater because of the merger test. Then it's only logical that you remove those thresholds. So that's what we want to do. I do not know exactly how many schools it is about, but there is a threshold being experienced - that information has been given to us all - and we are not too bad to remove those thresholds. I do not think that the small scale, which you are striving for, is in any way in the way at all. Another example from my own region. In my region, there is a medium-sized board of about 30 schools, but these are all small-scale schools working together under one board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	I find it amazing that we are here discussing the abolition of the merger test, when no one can tell us how many schools we lost because of the merger test. Everyone says that the continuity of education is in danger, but no one can show me how many schools are involved. Let me rephrase the question. In what way does the current merger test make it possible, and I am not even talking about alternatives or an improved or simplified merger test, which means that cooperation between schools, not fusion, is more difficult? And maybe I shouldn't say "current" but "previous," because de facto the merger test has already been abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	Because of the thresholds it raises, for example through information to be provided and deadlines to be passed, it seems more difficult for schools to engage in such cooperation. I don't want the merger test to be here. It's not necessary. I think that Mr Van Meenen has given an excellent answer when it comes to mergers and increasing governance. This has already been done before we have launched the merger test. So I think the step we are about to take is a very good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Kwint, this is your third time. Let's try to do the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'll remember that from now on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr Heerema talks about thresholds, just as he talks about schools but does not know how many schools are involved. What thresholds? What thresholds in the merger test, which we are about to abolish, do cooperation, rather than merger, stand in the way of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	Schools can always work together. But we think it is important to be able to share student numbers more effectively on paper and to ensure that quality and well-achieved education stays close to different locations. The other day we were in Friesland, in Harlingen. A school there said: we have obstacles to keeping students. Then let's try to work that out. If that merger test can be abolished, thereby removing barriers, I am simply very willing to do so. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister about the inspection. There is, of course, a fear that schools that merge and then fall under greater governance may have to lose quality. Does the Education Inspectorate now have the task of, for example, having additional supervision over larger school communities? We must, of course, keep Maastricht in mind, although I think that this has been a huge wake-up call to ensure that these large administrations know very clearly where they stand. I think they are very well aware of this quality, but I would like to know that from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The contribution is short. He doesn't have to. The VVD supports this cabinet bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. Since the introduction of the merger test under the Cabinet-Balkenende IV, the test is subject to discussion. It was introduced in 2011. In 2014, the test was relaxed. The test was evaluated in 2015 and 2016. Following these evaluations, the test was updated in 2017. The following year the test has been adjusted again, so that only a procedural test has been applied since 1 August 2018. In fact, therefore, that real merger test has long been abolished. A year later, now, in 2019, this bill on the abolition of the merger test will be dealt with in the Chamber. In short, a lot has been said about the merger test. The key has been modified a number of times. But it is striking that all previous Cabinets acknowledged and also stressed the importance of the test. When the merger test was relaxed two years ago, the cabinet wrote: "The test still has a preventive effect towards steering that do not want to proceed to merger properly or for improper reasons." Mind you, these were written by the rulers Jet Bussemaker of the PvdA but also Sander Dekker of the VVD. They found the fusion test to be an important means of ensuring the human measure of which comes back very often in the letters................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They also wrote: "Most participants in the field consultation support a form of merger review. They consider it important for an outsider to monitor whether a merger has sufficient support and whether the merger process has been properly completed." Now, two years later, according to the cabinet, it turns out to be completely different at once. Now the merger test stands in the way of cooperation, we also just heard the VVD say. Apparently, it is no longer important that there is a check on whether the merger process has gone well. Apparently, the social context is quite different now than it was two years ago. My question to the Minister is therefore: why this bill? The Minister himself writes that he does not expect this bill to lead to a greater increase in mergers in foundational education. That is not strange either, because there can be cooperation or mergers with a merger test. The procedure has also been simplified, as I just outlined. While in the past there has been a heavy substantive test in the case of more risky mergers, there is now only a procedural test, a check as to whether all these procedures have gone well. That extra check from the minister is now being abolished. Instead of a merger test, perhaps we should also talk about a merger check, because that's what it's really about. Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, the argument that drivers find the test complicated and opaque is not convincing either, because, of course, they think it is. It is, of course, the best thing for the board that they can make decisions without all kinds of other people watching from the outside. So it's not so crazy that this comes back from the evaluation. My group did not think that a heavier test for more risky mergers was a bad idea. We still believe that, in the case of mergers in education, it is simply a good idea to give extra consideration to the question of whether we should want to do so. Because we are not talking about companies that run production and are going to work together, but about children and teachers and about good education that is funded by all of us and for which this minister is also ultimately responsible. Is the Minister not afraid to lose control in high-risk mergers when even that simple procedural test is abolished? Does the abolition of this check not increase the risk of the Minister being confronted with problems later, for example because an institution has become far too big? I'd like a response from the Minister. GroenLinks is strongly in favour of working together and we are certainly not against mergers by definition either. On the contrary, my group sees that mergers in shrinking areas may be necessary. It is precisely in places where there is a drop in apprenticeships that cooperation needs to be sought. So Fusering is fine if that means that good education can be maintained in the own neighbourhood of families. But this is happening. In different regions we see good examples of governance that seek each other out, that work together or that eventually merge. Where that goes less well, this is often not due to the procedures, but it is also often because it is just swallow for drivers but also for teachers, parents and children to continue under a different flag. At least that's my impression, or does the Minister see it differently? Areas with drop in apprenticeships are therefore not the problem and at the same time we are seeing more and more scale in education in other places. In secondary education, for example, the number of pupils per institution has increased by 256% since 1980. The Minister, with the removal of the merger test, is encouraging the scaling up of the scale. That's what GroenLinks is afraid of. We're not the only ones. The Education Council also points this out. They consider the merger test to be an important tool to counter the formation of oversized schools. When the coalition agreement came out, the Education Council wrote an opinion on the deletion of the merger test. The Education Council wrote: "It should be ensured that only an administrative education provider remains in certain areas. In addition, in the case of advanced economies of scale, efficiency losses may occur." How does the Minister see this? Does he agree with GroenLinks that if scaled up, drivers and supervisors can also lose sight of what is really going on in education, what is going on in teachers and parents and how it really is going on in education? Does he agree with us that it is precisely in huge educational colossals that the vision of educational quality can also be lost? Does he agree with us that there is a risk in huge institutions that managers will become more and more managers and have much less connection with education itself? We have of course seen this in practice at the LVO in Limburg where a school board so many schools, 17 schools in 30 locations, had that there was almost no other employer in the province. This is undesirable. Not only did newspapers write about solar king behavior, but teachers also felt that they could no longer be critical, because if they lost their jobs, they would no longer be able to go to another employer in their own region, because there is only one large employer in the province. Does the Minister also see that risk and does he see with us that this is also bad for the quality of education? Has the situation in the LVO led this Minister to look again at this paragraph of the coalition agreement and, if not, why not? Mr. Chairman. I mentioned a number of points why my group is critical of abolishing the merger test. The abolition of the test not only causes the human dimension which previous cabinets consider very important to be lost in education, but it is also another step that makes scaling up easier. My group believes that in some places, especially in education, economies of scale have gone far too far. Does the Minister share this view and do he also see the risks attached to it? 'Cause sometimes bigger is better, but not by a long shot. Is there any scientific research from which we can determine the ideal scale of educational institutions? Then there's the co-determination. It is a good thing that the right of assent is retained, but at the same time the Committee on Fusion Test Education wrote in perhaps their last letter that, based on their experience, it is not possible to discuss participation constructively at an early stage in order to discuss the intention to merge. GroenLinks considers it very important that participation should not only be agreed by teachers, parents and pupils at the end of the journey, but that it should be actively involved throughout the procedure. My colleague from D66 pointed that out as well. The proper dialogue between co-determination and competent authority must therefore take place from the date of the intention to merge. It is very important that parents, teachers and students should not only be included in the process, but also be able to think along and decide with it. Too often they have to sign at the end of the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	I totally agree with: getting involved from the start. Otherwise, I would like to say to co-determination councils now: if that does not happen, I would say 'no'. But that's not my question. My question concerns what Mrs Westerveld rightly describes as excesses of scaling up. She referred to the situation in Limburg and so on. Does Mrs Westerveld agree with me that these are all situations that existed before the merger test? So the merger test didn't change that. My question is: what will GroenLinks do about it? Because by maintaining the fusion test, the LVO is not going to change and large and very large boards simply continue to exist. If you want to do something about that, you have to do something else. And what's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	I'm aware of that. It was just about that when Mr Van Meenen was standing in this place. I think that the amendment that Mr Kwint has made is very interesting, namely that, if things go wrong, participation should also be taken into account when it comes to the unravelling of institutions. As far as I am concerned, that would be a very nice step: that we should look at boards that have too many schools under them and how we can ensure that they too are restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	Okay, that's clear. Then I hope that Mrs Westerveld will also look at Mr Rog's and myself's amendment, which follows a slightly more gradual path towards the same goal. We'll see how rough GroenLinks is in this. Rough or effective, that's actually the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	I saw the amendment pass. I'm going to read it very carefully during the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I mentioned that it is very important that parents, teachers and students think along, right from the start of the journey. We have made an amendment on this. As far as we are concerned, part of the discussion that is to take place is that participation councils from different schools speak to each other, precisely in order to prevent some sort of directional struggle from arising when a merger has been decided. That is also stated in our amendment. In the end, all this must provide support and a better knowledge of participation. The amendment therefore includes a provision that is already in place elsewhere in education. It must ensure that the conversation between teachers, parents and pupils from different schools actually takes place and that they really sit together. I hope that colleagues have seen this in their mailbox and want to take a good look at it. Our proposal does not come out of the blue, because in the various debates I stress the importance of support and participation by staff, parents and pupils. The evaluation of the merger test also shows that participation is sometimes involved too late in the process, while the committee conducting this investigation specifically commented in its report that there is a good relationship in all cases examined. This shows, as far as I am concerned, that even if there is a good relationship, it can happen that participation is not included in the whole process and so participation is not always in order. The Merger Review Committee on Education also pointed to support for participation and governance. She wrote that there is a particular need for guidance, a non-commercial supporter, who is impartial and independent in helping to initiate dialogue, which provides help and direction, which does not judge but connects. The Minister does not consider such specific support necessary. Can the Minister explain why he thinks so? Mr President, a few technical questions. In primary education, a merger compensation scheme applies. The purpose of this scheme is to compensate for the continuing costs of a school merger after the merger. Because after a merger, instead of funding for two schools, funding for one school is received, while costs do not decrease at the beginning. Think, for example, of two different computer systems that may still exist side by side and both cost money. The previous cabinet doubled the merger compensation scheme as a measure to cope with drop in apprenticeships. The aim of the doubling was to stimulate cooperation between schools through this financial incentive. But the regulations stated that there is no merger if less than 50% of pupils go along. The regulations do not look at combining educational concepts, teaching methods and materials, premises, teacher teams, etc. So if 49% of pupils go along, the merger is not formally a merger and the fusion school does not receive the regular funding of that transfer 49%. That's what VOC/ABB pointed out to us. The SGP, which is not present today, mentioned this earlier. According to VOC/ABB there is unrest in the field, because there may still be many recoverys. Indeed, any merger in recent years with a maximum of 49% transfer of pupils could result in a recovery request. Would the Minister be able to respond to that? What exactly is this about? What's gonna happen now? Is there any way to recover? Is it true what VOC/ABB is sketching us? Mr President, I will conclude. It's clear. GroenLinks is not in favour of abolishing a merger test. Actually, it's a merger check, because it's a final check instead of a test. We believe that mergers in education should be considered very critically. We feel supported in this by a number of less good examples of recent years. Beyond that, we also find that a merger is not just something of the board. Teachers, students and parents should be able to participate and decide from the start, so that it is not signposted at the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I call Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a bit of a sketch, that's what the cabinet made of this bill. The merger test in foundational education has already been dropped de facto. The institute that judged this test has already been dissolved. Even mergers investigations are no longer kept anywhere. Then it's actually gonna be some kind of review. In that respect, you feel a bit like Johan Derksen. That's not necessarily something I actively try to pursue: on Monday evening I grumblingly look back at what happened on the field the weekend before. That offers little perspective for seriously changing or stopping this law. Let's start with this question. I don't think it's a very good chance, but let's say that one of the Chambers makes a line through this law. What does that mean? Are we going to enter merger tests again immediately? Are we going to recreate the institution that has already been dissolved? What happens if this law is not passed? Before proceeding with the substantive treatment of this law, I think it would be good to consider the origins of the merger test. It can, before you abolish something, be no harm to think about why anything has ever been introduced. In the last decades of the last century and at the beginning of this century, the government has stimulated economies of scale in education. Mrs Westerveld just mentioned some figures on the evolution of pupils per school. Eenpitters came under pressure, more and more educational institutions clustered under the responsibility of a single board. The professional director was increasingly entering education. More and more educational institutions began to behave like glorified real estate farmers. Mbo institutions were merged into anonymous educational factories and had to be saved with tax money, because they weren't as good at real estate policy as they thought they were. It took tens of millions to cover the mismanagement of teachers with delusions of grandeur. That was tens of millions in taxpayers' money. The fat lease boxes entered education. They didn't make it better. Undoubtedly after that they got a nice supervisory function again, because that's how it goes. There was the Balkenende-IV cabinet. This was intended to prevent the self-estimating of some teachers at the expense of the continuity of education. That was not such a controversial position at the time, because the whole Chamber agreed. The whole Chamber decided to enter the merger test. In fact, the room increased the test. Where the cabinet proposed to do this only procedurally, the Chamber felt that it was also necessary to look at the substance of what is really useful and necessary for an education merger, because what we had done to the students and teachers in the MBO, for example, should never happen in the foundational education. Nine years later, the fusion test is dead and buried and we get to have a chat here at the cremation. I suspect that the parties who are now enthusiastic about abolishing the merger test, if you ask them, will all continue to pay lip service to the goals of the law at the time: clear educational institutions and short lines of decision-making. We just saw it, too. But the means of preventing this from getting further and further out of sight is being thrown into the compost heap of parliamentary history today, because, yes, if you want to test something, it takes a lot of effort. That's right. Yeah, trouble is annoying. The SP would like to see complaints in bureaucracy that lecturers would be remedied as quickly as the concerns raised by teachers. For example, teachers have for many years indicated that appropriate education is a burden on the file building, which they face on a daily basis, but they are constantly being referred forward to an evaluation that will take place in some time. If educators indicate that they find it complicated that they have to justify why an educational merger is a solution to a problem, then Mr Heerema said it is in the election programme of the VVD and ultimately in the coalition agreement. Where the Chamber was unanimous nine years ago about the need for a merger test, an alternative, whatever the alternative, a better test, a lighter test, a less burdensome test, is now unnegotiable. Because fusion tests, we can't do that anymore. I see Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	I thought I'd let you finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	I really appreciate that, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	But you are in the mood for a question from Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	I thought, "Shall I do it or not?" Because the socialist rhetoric is getting to us again, and that of course also belongs to a socialist party. But the lease box, the self-enriching directors, all the stories of Mr.Kwint, which of course applied to the top of Amarantis in the MBO. We are talking here about the fusion test for primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	Can Mr Kwint give one example of a self-enriching driver in primary education who has a leasing car?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	In my view, at least last year, we had extensive debates about a director in secondary education who was exactly one euro under the beaming standard for a part-time relationship. I think we've moved into that together. I think it makes the President very unhappy when I mention the driver's name, so I shall leave that alone. The idea of such a test is, of course, to prevent future developments. Had we had a fusion test before, for example, the fusion wave had started in secondary vocational education, you could have prevented it. On the contrary, we want to prevent the scale and the accompanying professional directors who run it from entering primary and secondary education, or from entering primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	I appeal to Mr Kwint to put the drivers in primary and secondary education away as self-enriching types with leasing cars. I asked him about one example in primary education. I note that Mr Kwint did not mention any examples; he had that opportunity. I don't think they're here either, so let's make that clear. I think that Mr Kwint should be aware that the way in which he puts the administrators and the education sector away does not do justice to what is actually happening. I fully agree with you: LVO went wrong, and that is scandalous. That's where I did hang out with you. But let us also point out where things go wrong. Don't put up an image like they're all themselves enriching types. Take a look at the largest school board we have in the Netherlands in secondary education, because that's what you were just talking about. That's OMO. There's no self-enrichment at the top. There is not one great megalomaniac state in which the driver decides how to do it at low level, at school level. There's individuality, small inside big. I would appreciate it if Mr Kwint would be a little more realistic in outlining the situation in primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	That wasn't a question, it was more of a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	No, but of course I can't resist the temptation to say anything about it. I think Mr Rog is concerned about something I didn't say. I have said in the past tense that the fat lease boxes entered education. When? When I was talking about the history of the merger test. That's right, you're talking about the Amarantissen of this world. Then you're talking about the increasing scale and the educational factories that were the result of that. That's what I'm talking about. They entered education. I am referring to the start-up period for the introduction of the merger test. We want to prevent this happening in primary and secondary education too, and I think we share that. I think the merger test can play a role in that. Is that all you got? No, because Mr Van Meenen is right to say that it is not as if the scale increase has stopped. There are still very large school domes. The possibilities for reducing them are rather limited. Where was I? Yeah, you don't expect it: the merger test and those poor drivers, because they want to merge so badly. Then we shouldn't bother them with trivial matters as a basis. Any kind of emergency brake is now being invested in participation, while we are only going to talk in the future about the state of participation, about the level of knowledge and about the relationship with the school board, for example when we are talking about the law of consent budget. Then it is crazy to move such a heavy responsibility towards participation before we talk about it. For until we talk about that, we really do delete any provision that can serve as a stick behind the door. No more security. No provision for evaluation. There's no way to reverse a merger. Not a central place where mergers and reports are kept. No external check. We ask participation, and if it's okay with them, I'm sure it's okay. The SP is strongly in favour of strengthening the role of participation, but the participation of a school bears responsibility for the school itself. He doesn't have system responsibility, does he? The dramas at LVO in Limburg have already come a few times today. We have seen how things could get completely out of hand there, how a huge educational umbrella did not have any insight into the situation at individual schools. He did rake in the maximum salary. In fact, it had a separate administrative location separate from the educational institution. 'Cause imagine running an educational institution running into a student unexpectedly. Before the summer, we talked about the fact that the education inspection is going to look more closely at large curricula in its supervision. Why? 'Cause that's where the education inspector wants to keep his finger on the pulse. It is now two months later and we are discussing this bill as if nothing had happened. Then why are we giving this task to the education inspector? That's not employment, is it? Why, at the same time, make it easier to scale up and inspect more critically with educational authorities that are already so large? Can the Minister explain that to me? I've had some time to think about it from the summer, but I don't get it. But Mr Van Meenen is going to explain it to me, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	I will say one thing, because I know that Mr Kwint intends to talk about this for twenty minutes. He brings together a lot of things. Maybe I can go back to the genesis. Yeah, it was bad what happened. There was a lot of scaling up. We saw it in the MBO. We've seen it in higher education. It also originated there, I was there myself. You used to have the hts and the heao, and they all became big colleges with all the consequences of that. Finally, it was said in the merger test that we should look at how we can prevent this in primary and secondary education. But the path had already collapsed, people were already driving around in their lease boxes, at least some of them, and you name it all. And then came the fusion test, an instrument that was far too late. Then why would you abolish him now? You can say that you can leave an instrument that doesn't do anything. My point of view is that we are doing this now nine years later: because it has now become an instrument that has done nothing at all to increase the scale, but it is precisely on a small scale, precisely where mergers are needed, in shrinking areas, that it stands in the way. And that's why you have to remove it. It has become the instrument for the wrong purpose. That is my view. I am curious to see how Mr Kwint looks at that. We can, however, continue to work on the bad aspects of this increase in scale...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	But then I say, do something about it instead of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	Yeah, we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	Instead of wanting to maintain this instrument that leads to nothing, which only causes hassle at micro level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you for this question, or actually series of questions. First of all, I don't think you can ever say that this didn't do anything. We do not know how many larger educational institutions would have been if we had not had this fusion test. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that there has not been very often an obstacle, but it has happened. Thus, the merger test has blocked economies of scale in education at times. Has he thereby stopped the overall trend of scaling up? No. Can we do something about that together? Yes. I'd like to make it easier to cut up school domes. In fact, I suggested that at LVO. Do it right now! Cut it up! First of all, you free them from the legacy they carry with them in the meantime. Secondly, I do not believe that it is in the interests of education to have 30, 35 educational institutions under one umbrella. That is how things work here: we did not have a majority, in my view, partly because you did not support it. So if you're saying that we're going to set a maximum of the size of a school dome, I'll be happy to write a motion for the second term. I think you should do one thing and not leave the other. You need to avoid further scaling and you need to make it possible to achieve scaling where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	Sure. Any reasonable proposal can count on my interest. I myself said just now in the first term that I want to try to do something there by another way, through the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	Yeah, I thought that was a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	But now we're talking about the merger test. I'm just trying to narrow it down to that. I will say: that instrument did not work. It didn't do anything about the scaling up. It didn't stop any scaling up either. We can ask the Minister later, but the seven things that stopped the test weren't megalomaniac operations at all, but situations where something wasn't right somewhere. The difference with nine years ago is that shrinkage is now super-current. That was not the case at the time. The instrument now stands in the way of movements that we all want. It makes things much more complicated. That's why we need to get rid of that thing. That is also in our electoral programme, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	There's a lot of things in there that I don't agree with. I am going to ask a question that I have just asked Mr Heerema, who is a nice little bridge to what I want to say next. Because if the merger test is really such an unbearable burden, if it's really so terrible what we do to the school boards, then why don't we adjust it? Why don't we just make it simpler? Of course, we do not want schools in shrinking areas to end up disappearing because they are drowning in the bureaucratic burden. Of course not! They must be able to work together and in case of emergency I am not in favour of it but I understand that in some areas it is inevitable that they should be able to merge. Then you ask the government, who then says that a simplified test still amounts to a test. Yeah, that's right, but what's wrong with that? What's wrong with proving the need for a merger? I think that's a perfectly normal thing to do. How many mergers have been ricocheted off by this key? How many schools have disappeared because we had a merger test? I didn't find it. Then we also know what problem the cabinet is solving here. I actually think that more parts of the law are poorly substantiated. As I said just now, the SP is a strong supporter of strong participation, not just in schools but everywhere. I find it problematic, however, that the cabinet cannot indicate whether participation at the moment has enough baggage to enable these serious decisions to be made. That is a rather essential question for the weighing of the bill. The cabinet says it's going to strengthen the position and support. That's what I'm here for. Let us indeed do so, but in that order: first ensure that participation is sufficiently defined and then leave the power there. Whether you want to abolish the merger test or not, it will be clear that my party is certainly not in favour of it. You shouldn't throw away the old shoes until you get new ones. It's not that hard. Is the government prepared to first demonstrate that participation can do this and then make the political choice here to abolish or not to abolish the merger test? That is not mistrust; that is in a responsible way picking up the signals that, among other things, the Education Inspectorate has already given about the extent to which the mr is now able and equipped to do this important work. Moreover, trust in participation in this bill is at best selective. Where they do have a voice in a merger, they should not indicate that they want to step out of a larger dome, because I found that the most amazing thing about the reasoning I encountered would be to intervene in Article 23. Yes, the freedom of education, which is repeatedly said to anchor parents' freedom to establish a school, is used here to undermine parents' position vis-à-vis a school board. You may say something in advance about a merger, but once you're part of such a dome, you can't get out. Mr Van Meenen has already mentioned it. You can check-in anytime you like, but you can never leave. How does the Cabinet see this? This is an inexplicable contradiction, isn't it? Why is participation the right place to decide whether to become part of a larger school umbrella, but not the right place to decide whether to step out of such an education umbrella? That is why we have tabled an amendment; Mr Van Meenen has just mentioned it. He and Mr Rog have tabled an amendment light. He calls it "rug," I call it "clear."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr Heerema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	We are on our way in the twenty minutes of Mr Kwint's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	Eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	Eight and a half minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	At least ten more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	I have a question about those school boards. If I distil it that way, it is not so much an edge against the merger test as against the big school boards in the Netherlands. Yes, we did have a big problem with the LVO last year, but does the SP want to see all the big school authorities in the Netherlands cease to exist? There are also very well-functioning big school boards, aren't there? In fact, I have an example from my own region with a medium-sized school board, which allows small schools to exist in the region. That's what we're supposed to keep going, isn't it? Do you have any idea what great school board is doing well and what big school board isn't doing well? How big can they be? What's to you, that big school board that doesn't do well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	I think I just mentioned a few. I'm not saying a big school board can't, by definition, do its job. There are a lot of factors that make a school a good school. That is what we talk about here on a regular basis. I only think that, when it comes to the effectiveness of governance and the extent to which you are able to find your way within such an educational institution as a student or a teacher, further scaling up is indeed not always good. This leads to anonymity, which leads to the formalization of a lot of things that are easier in the practice of a smaller school to point themselves out. I do believe that this is a concern in terms of increasing the scale of education. Is that what I'm telling you to tell you to cut up all these things right away? No, that seems like something that requires a lot of care. Since I hear a lot of parties here that recognise the importance of small-scale education, it seems interesting to me to sit down together for once. Until then, at least we should not start pushing for economies of scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	I don't think we're chasing this scaling up at all. That has happened, and I do not think that goes much further than Mr Kwint's proposal to abolish the merger test, but we shall see that. Then a question about getting out. Do you have a whole mailbox full of schools that say: we really want to get out of the dome to which we now belong? I can't get those e-mails, so I don't see the need to set this up like this. I'm not tasting that interest in the field of education, although you seem to have tasted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	I'll get them. There aren't hundreds of them, they're a few. The question that precedes that is whether you think you should give schools the opportunity. I know you're looking at it differently, but it's my estimate that education is not going to be smaller in the next few years. I am concerned about that and I can imagine that schools are now becoming part of a larger dome and after a few years of thinking: yes, boys, this just didn't bring what we thought. For example, participation had been agreed. There was a nice presentation with all the benefits it would bring to the school. And after a year, we find that that school dome didn't deliver. Then I would say: at the moment that the participation has been nice and wants to get out, you will wave them out nicely. As far as I am concerned, the amendment does not need to be used when that is not the case. The moment everyone's very satisfied after the merger, I'm not gonna say, "You're gonna have to get out." I just want to say, when the participation notes after a few years 'boys, this is simply not what we expected; we do not have the idea that the things promised to us will eventually be delivered or we are disappointed in working with the dome', that we will be able to get out of it. I don't think that's crazy. The government's argument is this: it can do so in a way, because parents who do not want to can always set up a new school. I find that a little complacent. That is not a real participation; that is leaving the door of the cell ajar. 'Cause, of course, you're not just gonna start a new school. That's quite a job. And I think that Article 23 is being removed very quickly as an obstacle to this. What is also quickly taken out of the closet is the argument of increasing segregation. Good schools may well step out of a dome, the argument of this cabinet is put forward. What does a student notice? What's the segregation effect of one good school getting out of a dome? Segregation is about going to school together in one building, right? Segregation isn't about: I happen to be part of a dome and there are other schools with students that I don't find during my entire school career? What's the segregation effect of this? Again: I don't see it, but I like to hear it. In the note, the Cabinet states that an investigation is now being carried out into the possibility of "investing responsibility for the supply of education above administrative level in a region." I had to let that line work out for a while. What are we supposed to do with that? Is this going to be an extension of the tasks of the partnership, for example, or will there be an additional consultation structure for teachers? If something is not lacking in education, then it is consultation clubs for teachers. Finally... well, just a few more minutes. It is worthwhile for colleagues to take the old warnings of the Education Council from 2005 one more time. I'll mention a few. Freedom of choice is restricted. The co-determination can't handle it yet. The administration will stand at a distance, creating a lack of legitimacy. Scaling up is too often due to the status and career prospects of directors. I do not say that, that is what the Education Council says, and they know it! The percentage of money going to government rather than education is increasing. The involvement in the organization is decreasing. Defusion and independence are almost impossible, because the butcher, in this case the driver, approves his own flesh, in this case the dome. Fourteen years later, these arguments still stand like a house. These were the arguments that led the Chamber, for example, to support my predecessor Van Dijk's motion in 2012: let an individual school free itself from an educational umbrella. D66, GroenLinks, PvdA, Party for Animals, PVV, they all supported the SP back then. I ask them: support us today too. Support small-scale education and do not take any steps that will be evaluated in ten years' time. At least they will only be evaluated if you vote in favour of my amendment for an evaluation clause, which is not yet in the law. Nor are merger investigations, the so-called merger impact assessments, centralized anywhere. This is another amendment that we will be tabling. In any event, we will have these reports at our disposal afterwards, so that we can see what the promises of a merger were and what was ultimately achieved. At least when something goes wrong, we can look afterwards at where it went wrong. I can summarize the contribution of the SP, despite the fact that I have taken ample time for it, quite briefly: do not do this. Last night, I was reminded by a VMBO team leader of his own experience. He had a great plan. Vocational sections would develop their own methods. He said that was a lot of money. You could convert that money back into time and therefore teachers could make more development time for their own profession and their own methods. What was the response of the educational umbrella? Well, we already have an appointment with a big boy in the field of teaching materials, so no, don't. His conclusion: "big scale is hell for education," I quote. I'm inclined to agree with him to a great extent. Finally, on Tuesday this law will be voted on, and I have little illusions about the outcome. This is going to happen eventually. But can we at least agree that the parties who are going to help this law to a majority are not suddenly very surprised in the near future, when there is going to be a movement of economies of scale? Because it's not like they haven't been warned for almost 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. Mrs Van den Hul, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr. Chairman. We too find it incomprehensible that the cabinet chooses to delete the merger test. Because our reasons for proposing this merger test together with the SP in the Jasper van Dijk/Depla motion are at least as topical. And yes, of course we also have an eye for the importance of maintaining small-scale education in shrinking areas. This is why we, together with GroenLinks, have already argued for a shrink check. But shrinking problems and falling numbers of pupils should never be a free pass for unbridled fusion drive and unbridled scaling. We therefore call for the merger test to be maintained, for the maintenance of a human dimension, especially now that it is so often under pressure in our education. Look, for example, at the effects of the shortage of teachers or inequality of opportunity. Mr. Chairman. Scaling up is detrimental to our education, to students who are at risk of being lost in reverberating corridors of increasingly large domes, to parents who have questions or complaints, but do not know where to turn for a listening ear, and to teachers who often see their governance drift further and further away. We reach harrowing stories of teachers who are in danger of losing their passion, by getting less and less space to shape their profession and facing a management that is increasingly remote from the workplace. Does the Minister agree with us that this human measure, which has been mentioned earlier, should never be subordinated in education to school management and their managers, who, from a monopoly position, put the organizational interests first and not always the quality of education? The key question today when discussing this bill is, in my view, what kind of problem is it going to solve? To be honest, the answer to that question does not become quite clear to me on the basis of the arguments I read. The motivation still lingers a bit in the atmosphere of: feelings among school boards that would be obstructive. Can the Minister also justify his proposal with concrete cases where the existing merger test has constituted or would constitute an absolute obstacle to local cooperation between schools which is really necessary for future-proof education in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr Van Meenen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	Always good to ask which problem a proposal solves. But perhaps I could turn it around, too, and tell Mrs van den Hul what problem the merger test has now solved. At least not the problems she outlined for this about people who are losing their way in big school boards, because they already exist and they still exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	I will be the first to admit that the merger test could actually have been introduced earlier. Because then we might have been ahead of and prevented this great wave of the beginning of this millennium. But abolishing something under the guise of "the great wave has already been," I do not think the right argument. That is why I am asking the Minister what the real arguments are not to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	Then we agree that the merger test did not prevent mergers, because they were already there. Does Mrs van den Hul agree with me that the only thing that stands in the way of the merger test is where we want to maintain small scale, namely in shrinking areas? There's a barrier. I have heard several examples, including the enormous delay that the merger test entails in a process in which it is clear that two small schools can only exist together. That's what the merger test still has for effect. The other effect, which was once intended, when the calf had now drowned, never occurred. Doesn't it make sense for you to quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	There's no way I'm going with that last one. I agree that this merger test should have been introduced earlier, which would have saved us a lot of reverberating domes. As Mr Kwint said, there are still examples in which the merger test has worked. There may be examples where that merger test will also work. I do not share the fear that the merger test will prove to be an unnameable obstacle in the problem of shrinkage, because I do believe that there are enough safeguards in the adapted form of the merger test that make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	One more question, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Hul spoke of a teacher who felt extremely unhappy in a very large board. I can imagine. It depends very much on the board, but I imagine you don't know where the power is anymore and that you're losing yourself a little bit. My question to Mrs van den Hul is: what are her comforting words for this teacher? She says, "We still have a merger test?" Or is the PvdA also planning something else to make sure that such a teacher feels at home in such an organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	I think more is needed right now to take teachers seriously. I call it investing in salaries, which we talk about at many times in this house, and strengthening the role of participation. We would also like to use some other instruments to counter this increase in scale. There is an interesting pile of amendments with some proposals that refer to them today. We will also come up with a proposal ourselves in the second term. Mr President, I would like to continue with the subject of pseudo-fusions. The Minister does nothing with the CFTO's warning other than to remove the threshold of the merger test. He expects school boards to opt for a real merger rather than a pseudo-fusion. Can the Minister further corroborate that expectation? Does he not just open the locks again for further scaling up, which has previously plagued our education? We just talked about that. On what basis does the Minister base his confidence that the fusion impact assessments will be carried out as seriously and carefully as his supervision is due to lapse? How do we ensure care? Finally, Mr President. The Minister insists on the final decision of the school board on the autonomy and opt-out of a school. What are the reasons for this choice? Does the Minister recognise the risk of perpetuating that schools are ultimately serving the school board rather than that school boards are serving the schools and teaching there? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you. Finally, Mr Rog of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr President. The CDA supports the Minister in his intention to abolish the merger test. This abolition responds to the major objections in practice to the way in which that merger test was organised. Moreover, the merger test had unintentional negative effects on school boards which, due to shrinkage problems, felt obliged to merge in order to maintain the educational supply in the region. By implementing this law, a carefully balanced merger process will be maintained by maintaining the compulsory fusion impact assessment and the right of assent of the participation councils. The latter was important for the CDA to be able to agree to this abolition. We have therefore asked questions about this in the written preparation for this debate. The CDA considers this important, not only because the participation council plays an important role and this role is guaranteed by this legislative proposal, but also because the board has to keep the participation council informed at an early stage of any merger plans and their intentions. The merger impact assessment, which remains mandatory, also helps the participation council to take an informed decision. The answer to our questions on this point shows that the government is also going to invest in the knowledge and training of the mr, including in terms of mergers and alternatives to mergers, but also in the context of the future right of assent on the broad lines of the budget. In the report, the CDA asked questions about the safeguarding of human standards during mergers. It is good to read that the human dimension will now become a mandatory element in the fusion impact assessments, in which boards will have to deal with the assurance of this after the merger and the question of how the administration will continue to ensure a clear, recognisable and accessible organisation for teaching staff, parents and pupils. We agree with the Minister's view that the way in which the school was designed is more decisive than the size of the overall organisation. I was just talking about the largest school board in the Netherlands, which is organized small and close to students, with its own identity in the schools, for example. A large school can also be organized small. We read that in the coming years the government will follow the effects of the mergers and this bill. We would like to ask the Minister if he can continue to inform the House of Representatives periodically. A question that has not yet been answered is what to do if it turns out that the administration does not comply with the terms of the fusion impact assessment, including the human dimension. I have tabled an amendment together with Mr Van Meenen of D66 which secures agreements between the co-determination council and the competent authority on what to do in the event of a negative assessment. This may also mean that in the event of a negative assessment there may even be another opt-out. It is good to read that the inspection, including in connection with the drama at LVO Maastricht, is going to carry out additional monitoring of the way in which large administrations carry out their tasks in terms of quality. Is it also possible, as I ask the Minister, to pay attention to the human dimension in the discussions between management and inspection? If it is not present enough and people work alongside each other and do not notice it soon enough when something is wrong, this can have an impact. One final point. If the food area in institutional fusion increases, will the Minister continue to monitor these effects in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr. Rog. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	I'm suspending until 1:30 p.m. Then we will listen to the Minister's answer in the first term.
