ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all the initiators. They are supported in box K in the defense of their bill by Mr Stultiens, GroenLinks policy officer. Welcome. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 26 March. Today we are discussing first-term and second-term responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Snels for his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. More than a year ago, the Chamber opposed the proposed 50% salary increase for ING's chairman. The initiators immediately announced the bill that is now before us. At that time it was even an emergency law, as we called it at the time. The Minister himself did not rule out legal measures. The remuneration proposal was withdrawn and de facto one could actually say that we, as politicians, also on the basis of the social indignation, are vetoing. Especially in the case of large banks, political rules must be laid down, because this is also about our system responsibility for the large banks in our financial system. Yesterday it was news that ING's shareholders' meeting did not give a decharge. That was a big blow. That says a lot about what went wrong with ING, not only on the issue of remuneration, but also on the issue of money laundering. I would like to say a few words about that. What struck me in the reaction was that the shareholders were mainly concerned about the reputation of the big bank. A reputation, if you're going to define that, is actually the way outsiders look at you or your organization. However, as a Chamber, we are going one step further, one step further. We are also concerned about the culture of the financial sector. This means that bankers and supervisory boards should do the right thing on their own. That goes a step further than just worrying about reputation towards outsiders. I would like to thank the groups for the questions they have put. I'll answer that, too. I'll do it in seven blocks. The first two blocks contain most of the questions. I will begin with the Minister's approval requirement. Then the tightening of the definition of fixed remuneration. Then a few questions were asked about the effectiveness of the bill. We have also been asked to respond to the Minister's proposals. I also come to the scope of the bill, the pay gap in the broad sense and a few other questions. That seems a lot, but the number of questions is limited. I can keep up with a pretty fast pace. I shall begin with the right of assent of the Minister of Finance. On behalf of CDA, SGP, Christian Union, and D66 several questions have been asked. The general question was: what does the consent requirement help to make the financial sector safer, in this case with the large system banks? What's in it for the citizen? Mr Ronnes asked that literally. In fact, we have been working for a very long time with self-regulation when it comes to rewards for large financial institutions. I think there was a gentlemen's agreement ten years ago, whereby bankers themselves agreed that they would keep their reward moderate. We have had reports, including from the Advisory Committee on Future Banks. We have the Code Banks. However, despite all this self-regulation and, in part, legal regulation, including the 20% bonus ceiling, we still see that it often goes wrong. ING was the last major example of this. As far as we are concerned, it is necessary, as legislators, to lay down detailed rules for remuneration, especially in the case of large system banks. This bill lays down the rules of the game. In fact, that is also what we are looking for as politicians: how exactly do we lay down the rules of the game? That is also the quest of the minister and of the coalition. At the same time, we say with this bill, with the Minister's consent: even if you have laid down the rules of the game correctly, there will always have to be an arbitrator who will judge whether the rules of the game have been followed properly. That is what the Minister's assent requirement is about as far as we are concerned. Mr Ronnes, Mr Stoffer, Mr Bruins and Mr Sneller asked what this would look like in practice. We have chosen in our legislative proposal to be as consistent as possible with the formulation of the Banking Code. Rewards must be careful and carefully achieved. They must be controlled. By the way, the word is already in the law. And they have to be sustainable. Account must also be taken of public support. That must be taken into account. In fact, this says something about the way in which remuneration proposals are to be made by the supervisory boards. We have even laid down in the legislative proposal that the Minister may adopt a general measure of governance to include additional criteria, should it become apparent in practice that we still need to define further rules. This may be the case, for example, because the definitions of controlled, sustainable, careful and social support are not sufficient, or because the way proposals are made is not well-organised or unclear. Mr Sneller and Mr Ronnes asked: what about this social support? Isn't that arbitrary? Of course, in fact, you don't have a mathematical formula for what social support actually is. That is why we have formulated this open standard. It's an open standard. The alternative would be to introduce a fixed standard. I have also had that debate with Mr Ronnes. But what would that standard be? For example, Mr Alkaya mentioned the WNT. That is a legitimate debate: it could be. But I don't think there's a very large majority in this Chamber to tie bankers in the private sector to the WNT. So we do have a problem there. I do not think we can set a fixed standard. It can only be relative. Because it is relative, you should also think about how the process is going in order to come up with such a reward proposal. This means that we ask Commissioners' councils to be aware of the public's support. They need to talk to the stakeholders in the company. They should consult works councils and other stakeholders and shareholders. This process must ultimately produce a proposal for rewards that can count on public support. By the way, it is useful to mention that a few weeks ago, when we discussed corporate governance here in a broader sense through a legislative proposal, we also laid down that social support for all large companies in the law. In fact, we are in line with what we have already arranged as a Chamber for all major companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	I do not know if Mr Snels was already at the end of this block, but I think he has now moved away from the type of review he is seeking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'll get to that. I come now to Mr Sneller's question. He asked whether the Minister should only take a procedural test or also a substantive test. What I was trying to say is that what we are actually aiming at should be a procedural test as much as possible. But since we are talking about an open standard, we cannot do so entirely without a substantive test. When I think about the ideal situation and how this bill should work, it should actually be that the culture of banks works in such a way that the minister never gets in the position that he should also take a substantive test on the level of salary or the way in which the salary was shaped. So the commitment is procedural, and if in practice it is nothing but that the Minister checks whether a good process has been followed and whether a reward proposal comes out that can count on public support, then it is only approval of the process and we do not really have that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	Would this bill be necessary at all in the case of the last situation that Mr Snels outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	Yes, I think so, but I will say something about this later when I go into the Minister's proposals. I think this is some kind of sword from Damocles. You hang over the market that before they go to the shareholders' meeting, proposals are first sent by the supervisory boards to the minister, and there hangs like a sword of Damocles above that the risk is being run, by supervisory councils, that their proposal is being returned. In fact, we would all like the culture of banks and financial institutions to be such that it never happens. But precisely because we have and define that sword of Damocles, I think we can also ensure that it never happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	The latter is my objection to this reasoning: that is the ideal world. If we had that, I do not think this bill would be necessary, but that ideal world is not there and so it will not be a procedural test, but a substantive test. And that is the risk of arbitrariness that is then introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	No, turn it around. Suppose this bill comes out in such a way that every year, every time in this Chamber, we have debates on rewards for the top of our financial institutions, especially for the system banks, on the basis of the Minister's approval requirement, then there is apparently something really wrong with the culture of our large system banks. Because if that happens, then we know for sure that the proposals for remuneration cannot count on public support, and then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	Now, Mr Snelly, the concept of "social acceptance" is very easily applied to "there is a debate in the Chamber about it." I don't think that's what he means as initiator here. But my question is another. He says: it is a procedural test, but given current practice, it will be a substantive test every time, although it is not meant to be. Isn't that rubbing? He introduces very substantive elements in a procedural test, which even if you finally have the hallway to the judge et cetera as a guarantee, makes a very different type of bill of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	No, I think... Look, the dilemma we're all struggling with is why I started with that open norm and the debate I've had with Mr Ronnes is this. If we did not have an open standard, but a fixed standard, however we would define it, we would no longer have debates and the substantive test would be almost the same as the procedural test. But precisely because we cannot define that fixed standard and do not want to define it by majority in this Chamber, because it is an open standard, you always get the discussion about what is a reward proposal that can count on social support. I think that the supervisory boards, precisely because we leave it hanging over the market, and that is the intention of the initiators.... will change their minds twice before they send another excessive remuneration proposal to the shareholders' meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	And finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yeah, finally. I understand the "sword of Damocles" reasoning, but I think it would help to clarify the handling of the bill if we were just being honest: yes, it is a substantive test. Then we can also judge that test on its merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	Sure, but I think I indicated that. We do not escape the fact that, in cases where this is necessary, there is a substantive test. That is also as we defined the consent requirement. But the expectation and hope is that, precisely because we leave that sword of Damocles hanging over the market, we never have to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	I appreciate the approach from the ideal world, but the hard reality is that we're standing here because the banks have messed up. I think we should face that, too. If it were a procedure, I would say: invest it nicely at De Nederlandsche Bank, then we do not have to bother politics with it. Then we'll go back to the contents. It seems to me that at the end of the day there is just an amount for the Minister. The Minister will have to consider whether a bank manager will earn five tons, six tons, seven tons or perhaps even more. Can you give us any direction to think about? What then would be a reasonable salary for a manager of one of the large banks at the present time? If at the moment a manager of ING would come to this minister with his salary package, what would the minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	Of course, that is exactly the dilemma we are all struggling with. Can I turn it around with a counter-question which I believe is legitimate and can be justified? If we did not have this bill, and we are once again faced with a stubborn chairman of the Supervisory Board, who is again proposing a 50% increase in salaries, then I think we all think that 50% is too much. That's what we thought last year, and that's what we think now. Then there is the question: how can we, how can politics, how can the legislator ensure that such excessive proposals no longer take place? That's difficult, of course. Last year we found 50% too high. Maybe 40%? I think we'd think that's too high. What's reasonable? We are the representatives of the people, the representatives of the people, the politicians who have to raise the noises from society. In that case, it is important for us to also know that in discussions with works councils, in discussions with stakeholders, in discussions with shareholders, supervisory boards also ultimately take account of the fact that they need social support for their remuneration proposals. If that happens, I believe that we will have much less political discussions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, that is a fine aim, but in the end you will leave an unbiased competence to the Minister of Finance, who can be filled in entirely politically at random. We live in the rule of law. My big problem with your proposal is that companies should have prior certainty about what they are up to. I'm looking for that certainty now. That is why I come up with this concrete example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	Sure. I have already indicated that we are all struggling with this dilemma in the same way. None of us can indicate what a reasonable salary is for a top man of one of our big system banks. Nor can Mr Van der Linde. That is precisely why we are looking for the process in which reward proposals are made, and for the best way to regulate that where we can be sure that excesses can no longer take place. I think we're all making that search.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	Finally, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	I do not know where the limit for such a reward lies either, but I do not think, unlike you, that we are dealing with that either. What we are talking about is that careful procedure. But for that we do not need that unbiased power of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u22	Well, I'll say a little more about that later. No, maybe I should do that now. The Minister's proposals really go in the right direction on a number of points. More is being defined as the process in which proposals for remuneration are made. It also looks at the social function of the large system banks. Rules are laid down on the number of years of holding stock packages. Suppose I take those proposals from the Minister and we could go back a year in history with them. Suppose we had this legislation, which the Minister is now preparing, a year ago. And suppose, at that time we had the same stubborn chairman of the supervisory board, who did indeed have a conversation with the works council, who also visited a number of shareholders. The President could still have said in those circumstances: it will all be, but I still think that the salary should be increased by 50%. And what would Mr Van der Linde say in that situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u23	That's what we're gonna hear now. Finally, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u24	We'll share that problem analysis. We believe that what happened yesterday is a fantastic step, namely that the shareholders have taken their responsibilities. But I am left with the problem that then a power is placed with the Minister, when no one can predict in advance how that will work out. So a bank like this is going to work. And so it may be that, in a few years' time, if you're a minister, everything's gonna be shot above two tons. But they don't know that in advance. I do not think that is acceptable in a rule of law, in which business security should be paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u25	Point is clear. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u26	Finally, Mr President. Look, I think that if we took 148 seats a year ago away from the reward for the ING top man at the Forum for Democracy, then the whole Chamber thought that 50% went way too far, it would not be possible to leave it alone in moral indignation. Then we also have to think about how we, as legislators, are best able to discuss it, and the political judgements on it will be different, so that this type of proposal can no longer be dealt with. My fear is that the Minister's proposals, which are really moving in the right direction on a number of points, will not prevent this. I do not think we should be empty-handed as politics, especially after all the indignation we all expressed a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u27	It is nice: Mr Snels takes the example of ING in his speech every time. The social outrage, the actions of the Chamber, the reaction of the Minister, have led to the failure to continue with this increase. What does this bill add? Surely it would be much better if we thought about such an organisation in society in this way, after which it would be corrected and more in the DNA of the organisation itself how to deal with these kinds of issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u28	I fully agree with the second part of Mr Ronnes' speech. That is why I constantly stress that we need to think about laying down the rules of the game. That is why I also started in my introduction about the reputational damage that shareholders at ING are worried about. But that actually doesn't go far enough, because that actually means that banks and shareholders are just worried about how outsiders look at the bank, while it has to be in the bank's DNA to do the right thing on their own, so also making good reward proposals on their own. That's what we end up sharing. If you then go back to a year ago, I think that the announcement of the bill and the Minister's announcement that legal measures are not excluded were in fact already a de facto right of veto of politics. At that time, ING acted on it.The remuneration proposal has been withdrawn, but you can see good examples in the financial sector as well. Recently, ASR came up with the proposal to just completely stop bonuses and variable rewards. I believe that the way in which we have conducted the debate and the legislative proposals that we have tabled have indeed contributed to the broad coalition and through the Minister for Coalition, and have contributed to a more careful remuneration policy in our financial sector. But I do think that we should take action. We cannot say: we expressed a great deal of indignation then, we announced legislative proposals then, we saw it moving in the right direction and now we are going to sit back. I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u29	Nevertheless, in the excesses, the increase at ING, we see that one corrects oneself by the social indignation. However, your bill will focus on increases of 1%, 2%, 5% or 10%. How do you avoid randomness? So what is the assessment framework that a minister must adhere to? It's almost impossible to do that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u30	Once again, I repeat myself a little bit: that will be different for every bank and every institution. Because no bank or financial institution is comparable to any other bank or financial institution. So within these banks, there is Mr Ronnes and I on the same side of the line, as the minister always says, the supervisory boards with their own employees, their own shareholders and their own stakeholders will have to come together to decide on how remuneration proposals fit within the organisation and also meet public support. That is, of course, a discussion that must be conducted internally within that organisation. That is why it always starts exactly with that process at first. But you still cannot prevent, certainly not because we do not lay down the rules of the game in detail, that you still have very stubborn presidents of supervisory councils who can still ultimately take responsibility for themselves and say: it will all be with the remuneration relationships within the company, it will all find what the works council or what the critical shareholders think; I simply go to the shareholders' meeting with an excessive remuneration proposal. I think we should have a kind of emergency brake on that as a political one, a sword from Damocles to ensure that they do not just do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u31	One more point I am concerned about on this subject is possible game behaviour, so that banks think: let's propose that salary increase this year, because next year Minister Snels will be in the helm and it won't get through. How do the proposers assess the likelihood of game behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u32	It is, of course, a legitimate question from Mr Bruins, but it is already there. Even now, supervisory boards can use strategic behavior to circumvent legislation or company statutes, for example. As it is now regulated, changes in remuneration policies must be submitted to the shareholders' meeting. I cannot fully see ING's statutes now, but if the chairman of the Supervisory Board had not given the largest part of last year's salary increase in shares but simply in a fixed part of the salary, it would not even have had to be presented to the shareholders' meeting. Then it would have just continued. Even now it is, and that is the annoying thing, that is why we are annoyed by the culture in the financial sector, that there are indeed still people in this case, and I repeat it, it was really a stubborn chairman of the supervisory board with a very limited social antenna showing that behaviour that we do not find acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u33	I've been waiting for the interruptions of the spokesmen of the coalition. They make it a big point that it's hard to objectify how you're going to fill it out. I wanted to make a suggestion to the initiators. You're just looking at the benchmark of salary development in listed companies. It was 10% last year; almost seven times, by the way, the increase in collective bargaining wages, so that is already very substantial. If you come up with a proposal that comes out of that benchmark, you really have some explaining to do. That is quite objective. Wouldn't that be one of the methods by which a finance minister could complete that test?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you for this question. In any case, that is the way in which supervisory boards themselves should come up with a proposal. Last year, what bothered me so much about ING's supervisory board proposal was that there was a comparison with Ahold or with large car manufacturers, while it was a system bank. I believe, given the importance they have in our society, the risks they can pose to our society, that we cannot compare them with other large multinational companies, not even in terms of rewards that can be given to the top people of our large system banks. In that case, it is true that the individual company has to decide for itself which benchmark it would like to use. Then I refer again to the good example of ASR recently. However, ASR has made a national benchmark for truly comparable financial companies and looked at what is a reasonable salary there, apart from all bonuses and variable remunerations. Then you automatically come to a reasonable proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u35	I totally agree with that, but it's not about the level of salary. This is the percentage of growth in the following year. That doesn't mean anything about how high it is. If growth is greater than the benchmark in all listed companies, you have some explanation as to why that growth is justified or not. That would be an objective element in a test in case it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u36	Sure. I think that's true, too. At the same time, I do not think that this should be recorded as a legislative act. Perhaps it can be further defined in practice in the case of a general administrative measure. But in practice we will see how reward proposals are made within the various organisations. Then these kinds of arguments do indeed play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u37	Are you still in Block 1, Mr. Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's slow, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'm abstaining from a value judgment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'm almost done with block one. A question that has just been raised is whether we have not considered putting that requirement of consent with De Nederlandsche Bank or the ECB rather than with the Minister. I have indeed seriously considered that, and I have thought about it. There's something to be said about that. I see that all the debates we are having today are about this: there is, of course, a political sensitivity to the fact that we, as politicians, however we formulate it, should have an opinion on increases in bankers' salaries. It is precisely because it is an open standard that I shall come back to my argument and because, ultimately, there must be a substantive assessment, I say in response to Mr Sneller's question, that we cannot put it to De Nederlandsche Bank or the ECB. I think we should be very careful with our independent supervisors. We should not try to push them into such a political role. That is why we have simply maintained our proposal to lay down the requirement of consent with the Minister of Finance. Mr Van der Linde, and I also thought Mr Bruins, asked, with a reference to the Council of State, whether this would not interfere with the ECB's supervisory powers. Then I would nevertheless like to say that there are no questions asked about this, and refer to Mario Draghi's letter of 23 October last year. The Council of State was also very critical of this and, in my mind, formulated it as: this goes beyond the ECB's supervisory powers. We have tried, in our response to the Council of State, to disprove this with the argument that it is an intermediate step, but that it does not ultimately undermine the powers and responsibilities of the ECB. I myself am very pleased that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we have asked the ECB for an opinion on this bill precisely on this issue. The ECB agrees with us that this can be done in the way that we have now laid down this in the legislative proposal. However, I would like to say that it is remarkable that the ECB is actually correcting the Council of State here. In the ECB's view, the criticism expressed by the Council of State is too harsh and not justified. There's one warning for the minister. If the Minister ultimately wants to make further rules by general measure of governance, it is also necessary to look carefully at whether they do not interfere with the ECB's powers. Should this bill be adopted and if this minister, or a new Minister of Finance, really want to define further rules at a later stage by general measure of governance, advice will have to be sought again from the ECB. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second block, tightening up the definition of "the fixed salary." I shall begin with Mr Stoffer's general question. Mr Stoffer is not here right now, but he asked if there is any research on the basis of which one can say that there are wrong incentives in using and applying shares in the fixed part of the salary. That is almost a kind of entrapment, because there really is a mountain of scientific research. For about 15 years now, research has been carried out into the level of salaries and the performance orientation of salaries, i.e. bonuses and the way in which salaries have been shaped, including financial instruments such as equity packages. In fact, all this research undermines all the "truths" that are told about it, whether they are about the better performance of drivers, about whether the design is more focused on the long term or about the risks to the labour market position of top drivers, who would go abroad. In our own explanatory statement we referred to Manuel Lokin's dissertation, but there is also a decent research group around Bebchuk at Harvard. These Harvard economists do this research for large companies, but also for financial institutions themselves. I was just talking passionately about the first part of the bill, the consent requirement for the minister. Actually, I'm a lot more passionate about this. In fact, we shouldn't want the fixed part of the salary to still have variable parts of pay, because no matter how you turn it or turn it, that leads to wrong incentives. It still leads to short-term thinking and to the main consideration being given to the company's shareholder interests and shareholders. It also creates frictions within the company: who gets stock packages and who doesn't? It also leads to fraud and hassle and does not ultimately ensure that top executives perform in the interests of the company. In fact, there really is a whole, very, very big mountain of research that says: stop with variable rewards in the fixed part of the salary. That is why we have defined this limit so hard and that is why we say: there is a 20% bonus and in that 20% bonus you can work with financial products. It might also be good to remind the spokesmen that the vast majority of last year's salary proposal for ING's top executive was a stock package. That was almost a million. So it wasn't just about the maximum salary, because the most-- all-- most of it was paid out in shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u41	Then I would like to ask why we are only doing this for banks and not for insurers and not for other companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr Ronnes misunderstood that. The consent requirement in a part of the law only goes... Did I say "Mr. Ronnes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yes. You meant Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr Van der Linde misunderstood that. The approval part of this bill is only seen on the system banks. As far as the definition of what is a fixed salary is concerned, we are in agreement with the legislation that already exists, i.e. the 20% bonus legislation. This applies to the entire financial sector, including insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u46	I think I've dealt with most of the questions. Mr Ronnes has also asked questions here, but I think I have answered them now. I really think we should not give false financial incentives in the fixed part of the salary. Scientific research shows that. I'm referring to ASR again. I believe that, in practice, companies and supervisory boards also come to the conclusion that this is not good enough to defend, nor in what that means for the final level of pay, nor for the financial incentives, nor for the remuneration relationships within the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u47	Perhaps I have a supplementary question to Mr Snels after all. For example, if you commit to the obligation that shares should be held longer, do you not actually counteract the short-term effects? Doesn't that effect actually fall away from that flexible reward?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u48	No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u49	The fixed reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u50	I get the question. Of course, it works to impose additional requirements on the period when you have to hold stock packages before you can sell them and cash them. The longer you make that period, the more you can limit the negative incentives of short-term focus. Of course it is. But even so, I'm gonna remind you of this. The Minister is now thinking of a period of five years. That was exactly the proposal made last year at ING. It was agreed in the Supervisory Board's remuneration proposal for their top executive that those shares were to be held for about 1 million; the majority of the remuneration was to be held for five years. That is why my question is: what is the Minister going to propose to avoid issues such as ING?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u51	ING again. This is about the extreme height of 1 million, but this is more about the principle. If shares are part of the fixed-income structure, does that really create false incentives in life that make people make decisions that you wouldn't want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u52	I think you can mitigate the disincentives. That's how I'd like to look at it. You can moderate them, but I don't think you can prevent them. And then you have to ask the fundamental question: do you want to maintain these kinds of negative incentives in the fixed part of the salary? Or is it not preferable to say that "fixed" is actually "fixed" and that only in the bonus part of the salary can financial instruments be used? I am glad that part of the financial sector will find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u53	In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the authors wrote: "Giving remuneration in terms of financial instruments has an impact on directors' policies. This can be a combination of positive and negative incentives." Thanks to today's oral response, it seems that there are only negative incentives; you can then reduce them a little. But I also read here that there are positive incentives. I would like a response from the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u54	No, sure, when it shapes you like that and when you make demands on the duration. You would prefer that all employees in the company should be entitled to a share package. If you set all these requirements and if you fulfilled all those conditions, it would indeed not necessarily have to work out negatively. Then perhaps there would be an incentive to look at the long term. At the same time, I am very sceptical about this. In it, I am supported by all the scientific research that has been done and by the experience in practice, which is becoming more and more common. Shouldn't we get rid of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u55	But Mr Snels is sceptical about the way it is applied, not about the theoretical side, namely whether it can be shaped in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u56	I think you can theoretically think a lot about the question of exactly how to propose rewards, but still it is... Maybe I can refer to this beautiful book by Deborah Hargreaves "Are chief executives overpaid?" Last year it was declared by the Financial Times to be one of the best books in the financial and economic field. This is precisely the kind of argument that will eventually be undermined. One of the things you see is that rewards from top drivers are designed in all kinds of ways very complex. This is done in a variety of ways, from the way pensions are shaped to the way bonuses are designed and the way in which we define performance. We are going to make things so complicated, and that is also a kind of game theoretic goal of all those consultancy firms that give advice on reward proposals that we can no longer see exactly what the effects are, how high the salary is and what the difference is. And so I think Mr Sneller might theoretically be right, namely that in theory you could make a reward proposal that is complex, that meets all kinds of requirements and conditions, which could theoretically say that it could work out well in the long term and have positive incentives in it, while in practice it will not work out that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u57	Finally, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thanks for the book review. I think it's about, if you can keep those positive incentives, going to the extreme by completely banning them and getting them out of that fixed part, and, as it were, just letting it fall back on a cash basis. And that, while Mr Snels in his approach to proportionality actually outlines a lot of measures that we could take, which may go beyond what the Minister wants but go less far than what Mr Snels proposes, which ultimately emphasise the positive side. We can just put it in the law, can't we? Then it doesn't have to be a theory, but it can become a practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think I'll get back to what ASR is proposing. I don't shoot; ASR itself goes a lot further than we do as initiators. At least we still allow financial instruments in the bonus part for the rewards; ASR even abolishes the whole bonus part. In this sense, we, as initiators, are even lagging behind what is already happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u60	It is very good that Mr Snels has found a black swan. I'm glad you did, too. And I've expressed that appreciation with him. Only, we are making a law here that would apply not only to the large, so the real system banks, but to all financial institutions. Then, if I follow his reasoning, we are going to have to ban it altogether, while there are all kinds of positive incentives that we could retain in that fixed part of the salaries, rather than just giving cash rewards, after which it doesn't really matter what happens to that company in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr President, I object a little bit. That is why I mentioned that example of ASR again. I object to the claim that we are going through. In my view, a number of years ago, we voted in favour, I believe, of the House, to limit the bonus ceiling in the financial sector to 20%. That's what we were Chamberwide before. In my view, there was also the motivation for us to believe that financial incentives should be limited in the financial sector. We are now concerned as initiators because we have defined 20% in our legislation, that a way out is found by supervisory councils, so that we can work more with financial products as equity packages in the fixed part. I think we should avoid that. And I think that's also in the spirit of the law that we're doing what was it? Adopted in 2015, the law of Mr Dijsselbloem. So we are proposing a legislative proposal that is in the spirit of the earlier laws that I think we, as a Chamber, almost Chamberwide, have supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you. Maybe you can continue with block three, the effectiveness. Oh, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have also put a very specific question and tabled an amendment. Perhaps the proposers will come to that, but it is now really coming up: that the law would go through. Well, I don't think the law goes far enough. It is a step in the right direction. But I wonder why the proposers have chosen to apply that second part, namely the definition of what is 'variable' and what is 'fixed', to the whole sector, but to focus the Minister's agreement with the rewards only on the system banks. Why should that not apply to the whole sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'll get to the scope in a minute. Then I'll answer that question, too. First of all, I would like to say something very briefly about the effectiveness of the legislative proposal. Mr Ronnes asked how this bill will contribute to the prevention of the new financial crisis and how this bill will reduce risky action by financial institutions. In my view, several groups have indicated, even in the first period, that we have, of course, taken much more action in recent years. Whether it is about bank buffers, banking union or supervision and how we organised it, there is, of course, a lot more legislation on the reliability of the financial sector and making it safer and on improving the culture within the financial sector than just legislation on remuneration. In Europe, but also in Anglo-Saxon countries, the aftermath of the financial crisis has also led to the conclusion that rewards and the wrong incentives that rewards may have had have played a role in the emergence of that financial crisis and the banking crisis, and there is certainly reason for the legislator, the government to propose and regulate national or European measures. The groups of GroenLinks and the Labour Party asked if this bill helps to prevent excesses. That's a very general statement. I think this bill is going to make a big contribution, either because of the emergency brake or because of the sword of Damocles that we leave hanging over the market. If we are not satisfied politically and socially with the way in which payment proposals are made in the system banks, then the way in which we have now formulated it will really mean something for the culture within banks and the way in which remuneration proposals are made. But is this going to prevent all excesses? I'm afraid to say that. I sometimes frown my eyebrows when I read again examples of how pension provision for top drivers is handled. I really think that there are still some of those blocks in top executives' rewards that we might want or should be laying down more detailed rules for, but I do think that this law is an important law. Mr Bruins and Mr Sneller asked us about the Minister's own proposals. Of course, we still have to wait and see. The bill has yet to come to the Chamber. In general, you could say that we share the Minister's proposals to lay down the rules of the game, in which the Minister, like us, is in line with the discussion that is taking place in the sector itself, also in connection with the Banking Code. The difference is whether, if the rules of the game have been followed, there is eventually another referee who will see if that happened properly. You could say we're turning the same buttons. We were just having a debate about the fixed part and the stock packages in the fixed salary. Here, too, we see a problem, in which we must avoid taking or encouraging risks in the fixed part that we do not want in the end, with the Minister proposing to lay down detailed rules. He is thinking of a five-year period on which stock packages must be held. We think this is insufficient, but we are turning the same button again; we do not want wrong risks to be stimulated in the fixed part of the salary. As far as the other proposals are concerned, we will have to wait and see. About the clawback we get an explanation from the Council of State. The Council of State, as always, was critical of the right of ownership when intervention in the way in which remuneration is obtained by private organisations. This is true in the financial sector, but also in the bill that we have just dealt with in relation to all large companies. There is always the question of whether it relates to ownership. I think that the clawback scheme proposed by the coalition is even more a violation of property rights. So I am very curious to hear the opinion of the Council of State on this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the scope of the proposal. Mr Alkaya already asked why we are restricting ourselves to the five systemically relevant banks; why not all banks? It does start with the observation that the systemically relevant banks are too big to fail. We agree on that. They play such a big, important role in our economy and society that we do not want wrong risks to be introduced there in the salaries of top executives. For us, that has really been the point of reference for this bill. This includes the system responsibility of the Minister of Finance. There is, of course, a legitimate discussion about whether you should not extend the legislative proposal. We did not choose to do so as proposers. Nor will we, as proposers, give an opinion on the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Alkaya. Let's leave that to the Chamber. But this is the choice we have made, from the point of view of the Minister's system responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u65	Does the applicant not agree with me that it is remarkable that a bank such as NIBC could also count on State guarantees in times of crisis and that such a bank is therefore in a curious sector? When I asked the Minister the other day, he said he couldn't rule out that he wouldn't do that in the future. In other words, all banks in the sector now know that they are implicitly covered by state guarantees. Isn't it a little unfair to say to these small banks that they are allowed to make unlimited bonuses, while they can count on the government and taxpayers as well? Isn't it one or the other? Isn't it public or private? Even in a semi-public or semi-private sector, something in between, as you might say from the banks, should you expect some restrictions on those smaller banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u66	Of course, Mr Alkaya is right that it is a sliding-scale discussion. Why five system banks and other financial banks or other financial institutions? That was not a question from Mr Van der Linde? Of course you have all the little ones and those in between; that's not to cut with a pair of scissors. What have we done as initiators? We do not determine in our legislative proposal what the systemically relevant banks are; for that we simply adhere to international laws and regulations. Internationally, Europeanly, we have identified the systemically relevant banks. These are also the banks that have the greatest risk to society if things go wrong. This is an additional responsibility for us as a national legislator, but also for the European legislator: we need to lay down additional rules for this. Even now, we already have different rules for, for example, the way in which we monitor these different institutions, whether systemically relevant or not. Even now, we are already making a distinction in the legislation and regulations. We have joined the European definition of systemically relevant banks. At these banks, we as legislators have an extra responsibility, we believe, to ensure that there are no excesses in the rewards of their top people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u67	For the sake of clarity, therefore, system relevance is less important to me in this discussion. More importantly, these banks are semi-public institutions. They can count on the taxpayer when it goes wrong, so it is also reasonable to have certain expectations of them, for example in terms of remuneration. But I agree it's symptom control. I find it extremely remarkable that certain parties, especially the coalition parties, said in the first term that they also think they are semi-public institutions, but now when they answer it, they are acting as if they were entirely private institutions and as if the initiators were intervening in a purely private sector. I find that striking. Does the petitioner agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u68	I believe that Mr Alkaya is having a legitimate discussion. It was also our own Prime Minister who said that the big banks are semi-public institutions. That alone indicated that we are looking at our financial institutions with different glasses than a car manufacturer or a detergent manufacturer. This means that there is indeed a legitimate discussion on how far to go with the rules and regulation of remuneration in the financial sector. But all I have said is that with this bill we have joined the international definition of what system banks are, and that there really is another responsibility, and what is bigger, also from a social responsibility, than with the smaller financial institutions. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done. Very briefly about the pay gap in the broad sense. Mr Ronnes pointed out that his group was at all concerned about the pay gap between top executives of large companies and the rest of the staff. A few weeks ago, we passed a bill in the Chamber on this subject, which followed from a European directive. I have already referred to that. In doing so, we in the Chamber have adopted a number of amendments aimed at reducing the pay gap rather than widening it. There was, among other things, an amendment by Mr Sneller aimed at giving the works council an advisory right. There was an amendment from me and others to define the public support. There was an amendment by the VVD and me to put shareholders more in a position to counter excessive wage increases among top executives. I think that, as a Chamber, we should think about what proposals are best to ensure that the relationships between top salaries and modal salaries are reduced rather than increased in all companies. The Minister has also made a number of statements about this. I think we all share that and we are looking here for the best proposals to achieve that in the end. It is true, and then I shall come back to the discussion I had with Mr Alkaya that the political responsibility, the responsibility of us as legislators, for the financial sector is really different from that of car and laundry manufacturers. Then there are a few other questions. Mr Ronnes asked: what happens if a head office is moved abroad? Does this mean that the Minister's consent requirement can be avoided? Yeah, that's right, just like a head office can go abroad and then avoid the 20% maximum bonus limit. I haven't seen it in practice yet. Mr Van der Linde asked us to look into the implementation costs of banks. He referred to the implementation costs of this bill and asked: what does this mean for the costs that banks have to incur? I asked Luc to ask again explicitly at the Dutch Association of Banks. The Dutch Association of Banks has indicated that there will be some implementation costs, but that this is always the case with new regulations. It's hard to tell if that's gonna cost a lot. In our opinion, that is really very limited. The point is that a remuneration proposal from the Supervisory Board at the system banks should first be passed on to the Minister. That will, in our opinion, be very limited. The NVB confirms that these implementation costs have also played no part in its views on this bill. Mr Ronnes and Mr Van der Linde asked whether it would be better if people could easily switch benches so that they could also vote with their feet. I think we have had debates on this before as a Chamber. I think we share this Chamberwide. I also believe that a motion has been passed which the Minister has instructed to lobby in Europe for this. 'Cause that turns out to be complicated. But I agree that voting with your feet in the end can also be a way to discipline boards of directors and directors of banks. Finally, spokesmen from various political groups asked Mr Alkaya and Mr Van der Lee about our views on the recent WRR report on the financial sector. I cannot, of course, give an opinion on this opinion on behalf of all the authors of this law, including the proposals contained in it. I can, of course, say that we are all together, including the WRR and we as initiators, and I think that everyone in this Chamber is still looking to make our financial sector even safer. In its report, the WRR also continued this search: how can we ensure that the financial sector is safe, that people's savings are safe, that SMEs can take credit and that people can just take a mortgage? Mr Van der Linde says it, I believe, always so beautiful: banks must be a bit boring and be a bit solid. I think we're all making that search. Finally, Mr President. I am still proud that we have made this bill with this very broad coalition, with seven parties. From Mr Van Rooijen to Mr Azarkan, from the Labour Party to the SP, this is a bill that can be based on broad support in this Chamber. We don't have a majority. For that majority, we also depend on the coalition parties. But it does say something that such a large and broad coalition has been able to make this bill. I believe that this is something about the importance that we all attach to a secure financial sector, the importance that we all attach to the fact that the financial sector must work towards trust in society, including in terms of directors' remuneration. I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to the co-subscribers, to the officials of the Ministry of Finance who helped us in this task, to my own supporter and to the contributions of the various groups. I think we're all still looking, Chamberwide, for an even safer financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you. I thank Mr Snels for answering the questions. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr President, thank you. Today, we are discussing the initiative proposal of all those I know about. And some of the co-authors of this bill are with us in mind, too. Let me make a few introductory remarks. Then I will try to answer the questions from the Chamber. My first point is that in a previous role, I have often realised what an initiative legislative proposal requires, namely initiative - the word - it already says it. It calls for initiative and a lot of hard work. I would like to thank all those involved for that. I am well aware that this is always "on top of" the normal work and that it takes a lot of time, effort and attention. It is always special when Members of Parliament wish to take these steps themselves on an issue that they consider so important that it deserves an initiative law. I think it would be a good idea to mark that one more time on behalf of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. My second introductory remark is that I have the honour and pleasure of standing here in a special and also atypical role. I'm an advisor to the Chamber now. In that capacity, I will answer the questions. It was a pleasure to listen to Mr Snels' reply. I have also listened with great pleasure to all the jokes that have been made about his next job. I must add, however, that I speak from my own experience. I saw Mr. Snels gloat. It's been fun for a while, and slowly but surely it's getting in the way more and more. But I think that phase is still coming. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the initiative proposal, secondly, about the measures which the cabinet has in mind and which the cabinet is still presenting, thirdly, about the sector, fourthly, about number portability, and fifthly, and finally, about the WRR report. Mr. Chairman. This debate, also broader, is taking place because we recognise that there is a lot going on in the financial sector, but that there are also concerns. One of the issues that the debate often deals with is reward. We have often had an exchange of views about the importance of this sector in the cabinet's view that it has a particular social role and that it must act accordingly. Moreover, all kinds of stakeholders appeal to the sector, not least politics. It is also good to note that in the case of the cabinet, a sensible, well-balanced and controlled remuneration policy really lies primarily with the sector itself. It is the supervisory board of an institution and, of course, the shareholders' meeting, which is responsible for that. I agree with the initiators that banks are not ordinary companies and that certain core values must be protected by legislation. That is exactly what we have done in recent years. In doing so, it is politics, the government that also sets legal frameworks, although supervision is deliberately invested with the two, perhaps even three supervisors, if I include the ECB. It is also important to highlight the context of this debate that we have the strictest pay rules in Europe. For the unsuspecting spectator, it is good to realize this, because in this context we are having this debate and, in my opinion, also on the basis that a healthy culture, and wider when it comes to corporate governance, has to come from the sector itself and not from the government. It is really the sector itself with the restrictions and the legal supervisory qualifications I have just given. I shall begin with the initiative proposal. Mr Van der Lee asked me in the first term what I think of the ECB's last responsibility. I think he put it this way. Perhaps it is also good to mention that the appreciation of the cabinet of the document with which the ECB came, compared with that of the Council of State, is different from that of the initiators. From that point of view, perhaps too little was said: yes, the ECB is much more nuanced, the ECB actually sees it differently. I think these things can be reconciled. The ECB has only wished to highlight the fact that the problem is likely to occur mainly in the case of an AMvB. I thought that was a little short. I would also point out to Mr Van der Lee that the ECB's monitoring of remuneration policies and practices is ongoing, especially for those banks that are supervised by the ECB. With this bill, there is a risk of discrepancies between, on the one hand, the opinion of the Minister of Finance and, on the other hand, that of the ECB. As a cabinet, we do not think this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. Appreciations can be discussed endlessly, but the fact remains that, through Mr Draghi himself, the ECB indicates that the ECB does not find this proposal conflicting with its responsibilities in the last instance. Isn't that what the Secretary of State recognizes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u72	I have read in the press a somewhat roaring statement by one of the initiators: the ECB is allowed to do so. I think the ECB has tried to save the cabbage and the goat. Maybe I can put it that way. But if you read what it says and then read what is said about the AMvB, you will see that the same objections do come out of it as the objections raised by the Council of State, which, by the way, the Cabinet shares. I wanted to nuance it. It is true: they are two different pieces, of two different institutions, but the ease with which it is said "the ECB agrees with us"... I don't think you can qualify that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u73	We can all read creatively in politics, but I think the fact remains that the Minister must acknowledge that the ECB sees room for an initiative law in this form. Can I ask the question in a different way? Suppose the reason, the whole riot and the indignation about the remuneration package at ING had occurred just before the formation of this cabinet and that these four coalition parties had agreed in the coalition agreement: we are going to do what is now contained in this initiative law. Does the Minister say: that would have been impossible to implement, given the ECB's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u74	I always learn from the Prime Minister that I should not answer hypothetical questions. I've learned in a previous capacity that you shouldn't do "if-history" at all. In my view, we stand where we stand and we have written down a sensible but not subtle opinion from the Council of State, which states: this is unwise and not proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u75	I think we have a difference of opinion on this too, but that is not really an answer to my question. Then I try to formulate it in a third way. If I look at this, but that is perhaps an assessment of the package that the Minister himself is now presenting, that would not have been an adequate way to prevent the 50% increase in the remuneration package. Does the Minister recognize that? Does he see that there are other ways that might be more effective to stop such a reward?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u76	I understand what Mr van der Lee is doing. He cooks an increasingly richer dish and tries to serve pieces of it. He also tried to mess with the formation of two years ago. For all kinds of reasons it is good that I was not involved, but I think we should just look at cards like those on the table. That's this particular bill. That is why I wanted to outline this context so explicitly. We have also seen from the discussion of the past period that having a political and public conversation does have an impact. The accusation that I was initially given the side of the Chamber was: what good is that going to do? I think we have seen in this case that being in conversation with each other can indeed help. For the rest, I have to refer to my previous reply. I do not want to take anything away from Mr Van der Lee's encouragement. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee (PPE), rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van der Lee on his excellent report. The cabinet shares the concerns of the Council of State and considers that they are not sufficiently addressed in the legislative proposal. Mr Van der Linde and Mr Sneller said that as far as I am concerned, it is just as well to say that the Minister of Finance, myself or my successor or one of my successors, I am committed to saying that this successor is ideally coming after this cabinet period, but that is where the Chamber itself is going to sit in the seat of the Commissioners and the shareholders, to assess how to act in individual cases. That is a very far-reaching intervention in the rule of law and has the real danger of political arbitrariness. Mr Van der Linde is quite right about that. We sincerely believe that, with all the appreciation for the effort and for at least some of the issues as outlined, this is not appropriate and really not in line with the right of ownership. I would like to stress once again how much ownership is one of the great achievements of the last hundreds of years, especially in Dutch history. I hear some messing around here on my right in box K, but that will be exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u77	I do have a need to be honest with each other. Now it is as if the cabinet says: we have difficulty with it, because it can lead to arbitrariness and that depends on the Minister's having to assess whether a certain salary increase is too high or too low. But would the Minister be in favour of a fixed standard, as laid down by the Law on top incomes for health insurers and for all kinds of other semi-public institutions? Suppose the initiators had said: we put it at a maximum of half a million. Is the Minister in favour of this, or is he simply against any political intervention in the financial sector? Then just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u78	I always have the need to be honest, especially when it comes to Mr Alkaya, and the answer is no, I think that is unwise. We are having a discussion about the Wet norming top incomes in the public domain. Then we have another discussion.... and rightly so also in the case of state participations. The WNT doesn't apply to that for nothing. Then you also have a discussion with companies, and within them banks are, for all kinds of reasons, a specific category, but neither do I feel for this bill, I feel for the SP concept and then for normalising it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u79	So I note that it has nothing to do with what the initiators are proposing, namely that the Minister should do a check and that this may lead to arbitrariness, but that it simply has to do with the fact that the cabinet, like many other parties here, still sees the banks as a private sector, even though they state that it is not. Because the Law standards top incomes apply equally well to the semi-public institutions. In words, many parties and the minister can say: the banks are also a kind of semi-public institutions, but in deed this does not appear to be the case at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr President, may I put it nicely? Mr Alkaya does not do quite justice to the nuance of what I have just tried to display. Banks with shareholders are of course according to the nature of the business.......................................................................................................................................................................................... They then have an important utility function. See also the discussion we had earlier and which also came to us hard-handed in the past when banks had to be nationalized. But that is the context we are talking about. In my view, I also wanted to point out where we agree with the initiators on the context and wider issues. So I think the schism is just a little smaller than Mr Alkaya suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u81	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u82	In my view, the difference between the cabinet and at least the Socialist Party is huge, because I am trying to have a fundamental discussion here about the public and private characteristics of a sector which has indeed been privatised more and more, but which is now running against a border of what is still seen as civil justice. It's not a private sector. We pretend it is, but then we make all kinds of laws to intervene in all kinds of incidents. If the cabinet would admit that, if the cabinet were to say: we do not want to intervene at all, rather than to fall into technology and say: it can lead to arbitrariness, because the minister would then have to sit in the chair of the Commissioners... That's not the point at all. The cabinet doesn't want to intervene in the financial sector, and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u83	No, Mr President, that really does not do justice to reality. That is why I have just repeated what this cabinet and previous Cabinets have done, in what context we operate, how many laws and regulations have already been issued, what bonuses have been obtained and what the cabinet is still studying. So to take that off with one big move if it would stand for nothing, I don't think it's reasonable. Furthermore, I would not dwell too much on the differences between the cabinet and the Socialist Party, also for peace of mind among the four coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u84	I understand now where the minister is politically and actually stood. But merely pointing to the right of ownership and not wanting to intervene in that right of ownership does not really do justice to the history that lies behind us. There was the biggest financial crisis we've ever known. In doing so, the government has indeed intervened, and the government has also intervened in individual cases in the remuneration. And what's the situation we're in now? We're not in a time of business as usual. There are still major moral hazards at our system banks. Is the Minister not of the opinion that there can be a reason to intervene on property rights? I am not even saying how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u85	I want to be very precise again. Precisely because of what Mr Van der Lee refers to, of course, the previous cabinet, the previous cabinet and this cabinet have done a lot of things, for example in the area of legislation and regulation, but also in the area of seeking dialogue and making public statements, here and elsewhere. I therefore believe that we should not pretend that nothing has happened and that we are now faced with a problem. On the contrary, I would like to say that a great deal has happened. The question before us is: is this an effective and proportionate contribution to the solution? The cabinet has serious doubts about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u86	I didn't say nothing happened, but at the same time we see big money laundering scandals and problems surrounding the reward. We are coming up with packages that are unacceptable, and I think we agree on that. I now hear some nuance in the Minister's reply. He says it's the question of how to shape it. So he's in favour of the principle? Given the fact that there are and remain great moral hazards, despite all these additional measures, you could look for a way in which the government acts in a normal way, from the point of view of social interest. Is the Minister in favour of this principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u87	As much as I appreciate the fact that Mr Van der Lee is doing close listening, it is complicated that he then parks it in his own basket and draws a conclusion which is just different from the conclusion I made on behalf of the cabinet. I wanted to state how fundamental ownership is. That is one of the most fundamental rights we have. But we all know that in all cases there is virtually no right, virtually no right at all, 100% absolute. This is also apparent from the investigations conducted by the cabinet on three building blocks. One of them is the clawback. We'll talk about that later. So nothing's absolute, but I'd like to point out how important ownership is. So you have to come from a very good house, if you want to do something about ownership. That's one. And two: this proposal then goes a lot further, apart from the other fundamental objection, namely that you really find yourself in a situation of political arbitrariness. 'Cause imagine this cabinet should take that test, or the previous one, or the previous one, or the next. It has not been said that it would come out the same way. So the debate is going to take place here. As far as I am concerned, that would be a curious figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u88	Finally, Mr. Van der Lee. Then I will go to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u89	It is a pity that, after some rapprochement, the Minister is now taking so much distance again. He once again raises these fundamental objections very much, and I believe that this is a matter of gradual differences. The clawback touches on ownership. You cannot say at one moment that something is absolutely fundamental and that you must stay away from it, and at the other moment you can come up with a proposal that potentially infringes it. So that's not consistent. I would nevertheless like to call on the Minister to think about this and come back to it in the second term, to see how far we can find each other on this crucial issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u90	I refer to my previous reply. I think Mr Van der Lee has taken that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u91	Still, I feel like we're pretty close. That is why I am making an attempt. It could have been different a year ago. Then there was a strong dialogue. I know that the minister behind the scenes did the same with ING and ING said: good cup of coffee, good talk, we'll do it anyway. There's no way that's gonna happen. We're looking for the next thing. The Minister, Minister Leijten, Minister Van der Linde or Minister Mulder, does not matter to me very much. We should be able to approach each other that a finance minister should be able to say in extreme situations: and now it is enough, now I intervene. Where are we gonna find each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u92	We stand as a cabinet for the policy we inherited from the previous cabinet, to which many parties have actively contributed. Look, I don't need to explain and peel all those pieces now, but that is a very broad, very deep and very fundamental package. We put a shovel on top of that ourselves. By the way, we also have a little bit of work to do, which we will undoubtedly talk about. On one of these three points, we also have a very complex and exciting legal question to answer. The Council of State will also help us there. I have already indicated from the outset that in the situation of a clawback you will also have to look very closely at how that is tolerant of ownership. But we're gonna have that conversation. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the PvdA Group is actually using the opposite tactics: we're actually pretty close together, we can't do any kind of handshake here. But then I have to refer back to the much more fundamental objections which the Council of State rightly raises with regard to the cabinet. As an advisor, including Mr Van Dijk, I would like to give him that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u94	Oh, yeah. That is a firm opinion from the Council of State. The debate on property rights is also partly legal. But we also give the bank back: The Netherlands is a beautiful country, with a beautiful infrastructure, with a very good business and location climate. That is the final trade-out we make with each other, also towards the banks. That is more of a social responsibility these banks have than a regular entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u95	I am very much in favour of reciprocity, but this goes much wider and deeper. In my view, I really must stick to what I have just said to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u97	I had just had two and a half questions from Mr Van der Lee in the first block. I'm gonna go see if I can make more speed. Mr Sneller asked how I looked at the AMvB, especially in the light of social support and the risk of arbitrariness. I just said something about that. Of course, the Council of State does not in vain point out that social views are not always unambiguous and well-known and that this can also lead to arbitrariness, apart from the political debate. Mr Van der Linde asked whether a different definition of fixed remuneration in the banking sector than in other sectors does not cause problems and what I think of them. The Financial Supervision Act already contains specific definitions of variable and fixed for financial companies. Legally, it could be considered whether it could be adapted along the lines of the initiative proposal. But that is just as technical, and I do not think that is sensible in terms of content. That may be clear after the recent exchange of views. Mr Ronnes asked whether the bill would help to prevent a new crisis. I have great hesitation in that regard. I honestly believe that this bill is not a step in the right direction. I think that the legislative proposal really leads to arbitrary and very large and justified intrusive questions about property law. I don't think we're doing ourselves any favors here. I don't think we should want this with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm on the block of own measures. I think we can do that a little faster. Several speakers have asked about the measures announced. I aim to start the consultation of the bill for the summer and to inform your Chamber more about it. As you know, but I am still saying it briefly, it consists of three parts: the clawback, accountability, also given the social function of this type of company, and the legal obligation to hold shares in fixed remuneration, precisely because that type of remuneration could bring the interests of the driver into line with those of the company itself. That is what our own measures are about. Then there's the sector, and you can do that a little faster. Mr Van der Lee asked for a specific disciplinary complaint. It is true that a disciplinary investigation has been initiated by the Disciplinary Courts Foundation. That investigation is currently under way. Such an investigation takes time, so I can't tell you when it's done. Depending on the results, the foundation will decide whether to start a disciplinary case, but that is there and not with me. In general, I think that the cabinet should be extremely reluctant to interfere in legal proceedings, and so should disciplinary proceedings. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu asked when there would be a new version of the Banking Code. As of 2015, the future-oriented banking sector package will apply. With this, banks already indicate how they stand together in subjects such as service and sustainability. Part of this is the code of conduct for bank employees in the workplace. The link with the previous answer is obvious, of course, because it is subject to disciplinary law. The NVB has announced a new adjustment. It will be there at some point, I say through you, Mr President, to Mr Kuzu. Then, chairman, I'm at number portability. It is a word in the postcode rose category, but that is another very different discussion. Mr Van der Linde asked for this, because I understand that he sees better solutions, such as making it easier for customers not to include the name of the bank in the IBAN number. I immediately had a déjà vu, because I think Mr Sneller has also asked about this subject. I understand the argument of both very well. I also agree with the House that moving to another bank should be easier. There is, however, a complicated matter that I have already exchanged with the Chamber: we have just agreed that IBAN numbers should be regulated at EU level. So you can change it, but then you need to change European rules. What am I gonna do? I can see Mr Van der Linde getting up. Nothing stands in his way to question me, but before he asks me a sharp question, it might be good to name what I'm going to do. This year, the European Commission will review the payment account directive. It examines the costs and benefits of number portability at EU level. I will stress once again the importance of providing this opportunity. I will also look into the extent to which this can be taken into account in the investigation. I will also ask De Nederlandsche Bank to investigate further the possibilities of aliasing, as it is so beautifully called, precisely to make switching easier. An example may be linking an IBAN number to a phone number. Finally. The third part is that I'm also going to talk to the banks about how to make the so-called switching service more effective. That is not the classic number portability, but in the end the thought is that you should be able to switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr Van der Linde has a question or not!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u99	I can't wait, Mr. Chairman. It is true that the VVD and D66 have been able to find each other very well on this subject for the past ten years. The only thing that bothers me is that we've been talking about this for over 20 years. I happened to check it out: I see that the first pieces on number portability from 2001 are. I appreciate all the efforts made by the Minister, but I would like to have it arranged so that we can simply say to people in the Netherlands: you can simply change and take your number with you. You can do that with an alias and so on, but I'm just looking for a deadline so badly. When did we get it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u100	This sounds as if Mr Van der Linde thinks it is too little. I am thinking out loud about what else you could do, because we all know that changing European regulations has not happened in a curse and a sigh. I can check again where the investigation is and I would like to inform the Chamber. I would also like to look again at whether we can do more, both administratively and politically, to push this discussion and research in the right direction, but the Chamber is also aware that the basket of tasks that I collect and then try to distribute in Brussels is quite richly filled. I would like to take another look at it and report back on it, but I also do not want to raise expectations that I may not live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u101	I attach high capacities to the Minister on this point, so that will not be the case. But we can really do something within the Netherlands. To give you an example: if you just set up the payments in such a way that it doesn't matter which bank name you enter, it will be fine. Working with aliases could be fine within the Netherlands. You don't need anything European for that. I'm just looking for those kind of practical solutions to get it done right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u102	Here's what I'm gonna do. I have said it to Mr Sneller before. I really understand the logic behind this question. I think we all understand them, because we are consumers too. Let me write down once more about each of those three slopes, as the Belgians would say, which I just described, for the Chamber where we stand, what would still be possible and what would then solve it. Then Mr Van der Linde will at least have the overview. To this I would add what actions I think I can and should take in each of these three areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u103	And then the answer to all those people in the Netherlands: when do you think we have something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u104	That letter can, of course, be relatively quick, but I do not want to make the promise about Europe here now. It can of course be faster on a number of other parts, where it is a conversation between the sector and the ministry. But then there is another implementation time attached to that. I see Mr Van der Linde eagerly impatiently. I would like to try to put it a little more precisely in the second term, but we should not fool each other either. We didn't settle this in three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd come to the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u107	I thought you'd have to go into the WRR report. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u108	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. There was one more question from Mr Bruins and one from Mr Kuzu. Excuse me. For a moment I had overlooked it in my attempt to keep Mr Van der Linde away from me. Mr Bruins' question was how the cabinet looks at the WRR report from the pay perspective. I've been to the presentation of the report. The report stressed the importance of social anchoring of banks. That is the thread of this discussion. It is not the only element, but it is an important element in the discussion on rewards. Then I will return to what I have previously exchanged on what we are already doing and what we intend to do in the area of legislation. I also come up with a separate cabinet response to the entire WRR report, because there is, of course, much more to be said about it. Mr Kuzu asked a question that I would also like to mention from others, and I will not mention them all, which is what should happen to the Volksbank and ABN. I keep repeating the answer I gave earlier. In general, the government is committed to strengthening diversity in the financial sector. I keep the agreement in the government agreement that the banks can go back to the market when justified, given what they have to do. For ABN AMRO, the privatisation process has, of course, already started. I cannot comment on that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u109	Did you come to the end of the reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u110	That is what I thought, Mr President, but Mr Van der Lee and I may be taking up something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u111	I also have a question with regard to the second term. It is mainly about the arbitrariness and the fear that the Minister has for that. In a previous life, I was chairman of a supervisory board and of a committee of renations. For a long time there have been benchmark surveys, but also point systems that allow you to weigh the weight of a position on a board of directors. You can objectify from which a reward should consist and which facets you weigh. You can also compare this with similar organisations and the rewards they give to their members of the board of directors. Does the Minister recognise that a degree of objectification of a reward is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u112	In my view, one of the debate tricks in Mr Van der Lee's standard repertoire is to ask if I accept something and then mess with something else. This sounded a bit like what he just said in the direction of Mr Snels. Then it was the category "I'm making a suggestion to you." That sounded like a death threat, but Mr Snels, of course, immediately embraced it. Look, there are all kinds of things to say about rewards. There are all kinds of different pay systems and there are all kinds of discussions about whether you should make that public and whether that helps or not. Mr Van der Lee has been on a Committee on Reumeration. So he knows better than anyone that this is a mer à boire. There is a lot to say about it, but for the record: even if Mr Van der Lee's question had to be answered positively, that would be a framework of the bill, while the cabinet had fundamental objections to the bill. I cannot undo that, not even with the good experiences that Mr Van der Lee has had in the Committee on Reumeration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u113	I'd like it if I could just get a clear answer. Is it now the main objection that a button is being introduced to which a ruler can play? Is that the objection? Or is it simply denied that it is possible to establish a reward based on objectivable building blocks? That's two different things. I am simply not clear what is the main argument of the cabinet and therefore of the advice given by the minister to us as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr Van der Lee is doing the Cabinet a little short, because I have repeatedly pointed out, even in this debate, the fundamental fundamental objections to this proposal on property rights, the arbitrariness and the role that you give myself or my successor in a way that does not really contribute to improving the financial sector. We just honestly don't think it helps. Are rewards objectivable? Perhaps in part, but let us also be very honest: see how the discussion about rewards has developed. Those criteria have only partly changed. You can see that some companies, in the banking sector or beyond, offer much more or much less fees than in an earlier phase. So objectivation "only brings you so much." Unfortunately, the final answer cannot be found in that too. You have to take that into account in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first deadline for dealing with this bill. I want to go straight to the second term. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks and my heartfelt compliments to the initiators for this great bill and for the very eloquence of its defence by my colleague Snels. Really very good and very convincingly done. During the debate I had to think more and more of my mother, who told me from a young age: "can't" lies in the cemetery and "will not" lies next to it. I would like to say something on both points. I have also tried to make that clear in the debate on the interruption. I think it is possible, as a matter of principle, that we should come to the conclusion of society, society and politics that we are standardising perverse incentives when it comes to the system banks and the moral hazards associated with them. It's possible. Then the question is, do you want to? In this debate it has become clear that the coalition, including the minister who rules on its behalf, does not really have the political will to use this instrument. It seems that there is a political will to take other measures to intervene in property law; that is what we are going to talk about. That is precisely what we need to see in the clawback scheme, but in principle you are taking action. So there's no difference in the substance. What is even more problematic is that the instruments proposed would not have provided an adequate response to the package that ING presented at some point. So that policy does not seem to be really effective in advance. Won't? Someone who sits on a renation committee already looks at it in the most objective way possible: how can I arrive at a judgment on the assessment of members of the board of directors? This is an almost daily practice in business. That can also be done by a ruler. It can also record this and build up a practice that can guide regime leaders who come afterwards: how are you going to put that assessment into practice? So there too it can be, and there too it is more of a taste or a matter of "do you have the political will to do so?'. My group has that political will. Many groups in this House have this political will. Hence also this initiative legislative proposal. I therefore call once again on the coalition and the Minister of Finance to support the political will to settle this properly once and for all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the initiators and the adviser, the minister, for the first-term response. I have to start with the observation that the debate on remuneration policy is not just going on here. The banking sector, the financial sector itself, is also working on this. We see that ASR has recently decided to ban the bonus policy and go more to regular, fixed rewards. I am not saying that I am in favour of this, that this is the ultimate solution and that this should be the direction for all financial institutions, but I think it is very good that the aspects of remuneration policy are looked at in this way. Perhaps it offers prospects for some authorities. The initiators did say something about it earlier, but I am curious how they see this movement. And I am also very curious whether the Minister can say in his second term whether such initiatives are also the subject of discussion in the talks he is having with the financial sector. Then I'll get to the Initiative Act. Two important cases were the consent requirement and the part of shares in the fixed remuneration part. These are two aspects which have been discussed very extensively. We are not convinced that a right of veto for the Minister is the solution to the objective we want to achieve. The same is true of the other part: if you were to introduce a ban on shares in fixed remuneration, you would not only counter the negative aspects, but would actually put the positive aspects aside. We think it can be more responsible by taking a good look at the suggestion made earlier by the Minister in his letter. We are therefore awaiting further consideration of the clawback, the accountability and also the holding of shares here in the Chamber. We shall then undoubtedly discuss this issue. And I am very pleased with a minister who says he is also working on simplifying the transition from bank to bank. It is clear that it would be nice if we could now really take steps, even after what Mr Van der Linde said a moment ago about how long this has been the subject of discussion in the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u119	Thank you, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the initiators for the answer and to the minister for the advice. I liked how Mr Snels named it: we already have Europe's strictest rules on bonus policy, but we want to think together about a safer financial sector and also about working to restore confidence. I think we all, all the groups in this house, have our own search, and we are not there yet. That is why I was a little disappointed by what Mr Van der Lee said, namely that some parties do not want to standardize. That is also wrong against the background of the strictest bonus law and the sounds I have heard in this period of time about how to deal with it. I didn't mean to provoke you, Mr. Van der Lee, so I'm gonna keep talking. Let us at least ensure that the discussion continues and continues. And I think we still have that discussion. Mr President, before I get to the bill...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u121	Yes. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Normally, I would have stayed in my seat, but if you're quoting me, you have to do it right. I don't think there's any reproach that you wouldn't want to standardize. The reproach is that you do not want to standards effectively. That's a small nuance, but it's pretty crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u123	That's pretty crucial. I'll read the Acts. In any case, it is a good thing that it has been corrected, so what Mr Van der Lee really meant. I'll come to the review and the referee. That referee is appointed by the initiators without telling him where the line is when the ball is inside or outside the field. I think it is a bit too easy to pass on that hot potato with 'otherwise you can arrange in an AMvB exactly what it should look like'. I believe that the risk of legal certainty and feasibility is too great. The initiator emphasizes this for me by saying: we cannot put this at De Nederlandsche Bank or the ECB, because it must remain independent. And then it's not about explaining something when you reject certain benchmarks. No, it's not a choice, it's a right of veto for the minister. And I also think it would be a good idea for the initiator to reflect on the difference between "should be able to count on social support" and "take social support into account." In his reply he dealt with this loosely, while he changed this in the actual legislative proposal following the opinion of the Council of State. Then the second part. I think we agree that we would like to further clause the current design of these fixed remunerations and how easy it is to deploy stock packages without any retention period, so how long you should keep such a package. I think I have already indicated in the case of interruption that I am not convinced that a ban is now the best thing. I think you should see how to make it more in line with the company's long-term interests. Finally, it is not only the shareholders and the supervisory board, as happened in the implementation law on the long-term involvement of shareholders, that you must give more control, but above all consumers, so that they can show what they think. That is why I wholeheartedly agreed with what Mr Van der Linde said about this and I wholeheartedly supported the motion he is likely to table in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the initiators for this initiative law and for explaining and answering our questions. Mr. Chairman. Too high rewards are just a symptom of a sick banking system. I have already indicated this in my first term and also in the interrupting debates we have had about it. We are talking about a sector in which public interests and private interests run right through each other. That is a situation that we should actually address, because this means that we need to keep private banks that make a lot of profits in times of prosperity, pay dividends to shareholders and pay out high bonuses and rewards to themselves, with taxpayers' money in times of crisis. Instead of dealing with that, we're working on plasters. Anyway, if we have a stinking wound, then a Band-Aid is better than nothing. That is why I think this is a step in the right direction and we are also under this proposal, but it is clearly a compromise. There are seven parties underneath, which is very special. That is why I find it special that the other parties, especially the coalition parties, do not see that this is a reasonable proposal, that this is a compromise of seven parties, in which almost the complete opposition indicates: we need to do something more with this, we need to standardize the banks more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u126	You are talking about a reasonable proposal. Flavors are different, of course. I do have another question. I hear Mr Alkaya now pleading for the WNT as a standard for bankers. That seems to me to be something that is not in the bill at all. How does this relate to each other? Because I don't see Mrs Leijten anymore either. It may be a very strange question, but do you still support this bill or would you prefer to implement the WNT and simply go three steps further?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u127	The fact that Mrs Leijten is not in trade-k has nothing to do with that. Nor do I believe that this law does not prevent us from going on and thinking further about how we can deal with the sector even more. I even tabled an amendment to an initiative law under which we ourselves stand. That is why I would like to point out that this is a compromise text. We support this. It is a step in the right direction, but we would like to go much further ourselves. Firstly, with an amendment saying that this law should apply to the whole sector rather than just those five system banks when it comes to the Minister's agreement with the remuneration. If we then have this through, we must continue to think about the nature of this sector. If that is the semi-public sector, I think it is only natural to include this sector under the Top Income Standards Act, as health insurers also fall under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u128	Finally, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u129	So the SP says: go along with this perfectly reasonable bill in our view, because we only see it as a first step and then push it all the way to the WNT. Well, I'll pass for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u130	That's bullshit, of course. We often talk about compromises here, and Mr Van der Linde knows all about them. If he were to support this bill, it would not prevent him from not supporting next steps. I will continue with my speech. This also shows that the coalition parties are diving into the technique and are looking for excuses not to support it, while the Minister has also indicated that, even if all these technical questions were answered, he would not support it; then the coalition parties and the cabinet would not support any further intervention in the banking sector, in the financial sector. Then just be honest and say: we want to let the banks go and we want them to make profits again, pay dividends to the shareholders, pay bonuses and raise rewards for the top executives; at the moment when things go wrong, the cabinet is ready with tax money again. That's what it admits. I'll pass for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u131	Now we are making a complete caricature of what we see as a common problem. There is a solution here that my party and I may not be wearing, but everyone is looking for solutions. Surely the tone of the debate can't be 'if you don't go along with this bill, you'll think it's all right'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u132	I have yet to see an alternative proposal from Mr Van der Linde which he would like to address to the banks. At the moment when the banks fail, whether it is a settlement or a pay increase, Mr Van der Linde is on TV again or is here in the Chamber screaming murder and fire again, but I haven't seen any proposals with which he really tackles the bonuses. I dare him to do that. If he does not approve of this proposal, then tomorrow or next week or after the recess, I would like to see an alternative proposal from Mr Van der Linde on how to deal with bonuses and rewards in the banking sector, but I fear the worst. Mr. Chairman. In anticipation of inevitable fundamental intervention in this sector, this proposal is a step in the right direction. That is why it can count on our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the initiators, including the defense on this day. It's a good story, so it won't surprise you that we wholeheartedly support the bill. It is ultimately about restoring confidence, as has been said several times. Without trust, there is no financial sector. When you look at the financial sector and the lessons learned, you see that people are very hard learners and always look for loopholes in the law. It must therefore be the policy that sets the limits of what can and cannot be done for a sound financial sector. Then we actually put the ball on the spot for the Minister today. We have taken the step today to give him a position that is much firmer. The goal's empty, it's only 10 feet, and he's really gonna shoot it high. Maybe we won't get out today, but how is the Minister going to hit that ball really hard? He says: I am also going to make a number of proposals and I am also prepared to intervene in part if necessary. We are very curious about that, because that must be very firm. Because we now know from this financial sector that if we are not able to take firm action as a political one, it will be the right conversation. Then it remains that dialogue, the cup of coffee and the moment they drive away in their big car, they think: nice, we go back to our own course and maintain our own work and our own culture. So, Minister, kick him in the ass! If not today, do it as soon as possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr. Chairman. We wrestle in this Chamber with rewards at the top of big companies. The idea that directors can do and let go of what they want is all about solidarity in our society. No one begrudges talented people a good salary. This applies both to bankers and to footballers as well as to anyone; that is not the point. But the random grab in the big pot, Dutch people just don't take that anymore. These are the same Dutch people who have to work hard themselves, who simply pay taxes and then have enough left for a two-week holiday in France with the children. I am talking about the ordinary people in the Netherlands who see this happen. Well, the question is, how are we gonna fix that? With all due appreciation, I have this for the initiators: this bill of GroenLinks, co-signed by other opposition parties, places a far-reaching power on the Minister of Finance. And then it's not framed. Then you're just gonna keep the situation where you can fill that out politically at random. The defenders will now understand that we are having difficulty with this and that we are not going to support this bill for that reason. In the Netherlands, you have to be able to rely on laws and regulations, and they should also apply to the government. So we'd rather look for agreements where banks just do the right thing themselves. For that, you need a good board of directors with a social antenna and a critical shareholder meeting. A few weeks ago, this Chamber approved a VVD amendment to give shareholders more control over remuneration policy. Yeah, you've been a part of that. I see it, Mr. Quick. Shareholders take that role, too. What we saw yesterday at ING was just really good. And it could be even better; we've seen that at ASR. There is a new remuneration policy for the summit, with prior consultation of all stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and also MPs. This has resulted in a package that is perfectly understandable. They still make a hell of a lot of money there, but it's understandable. People understand what steps are being taken and on what basis. Now to the final step: to make customers more resilient. Nothing works as well as customers who quit when they're angry. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas excesses in the banking sector can be effectively avoided if customers can easily move to another bank;]] [[Whereas the fact that a customer cannot take his own account number and that adding the bank name to the IBAN has further made it difficult to discuss number portability difficult;]] [[having noted that the Court has adopted several motions on this subject over the past ten years, which have been widely supported;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that by 1 January 2021 at the latest the number portability is regulated in such a way that any customer can switch bank with the retention of account number, for example by automatic redirection or by making the bank name irrelevant in the case of a domestic transfer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde and Mr Sneller. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34906-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u137	I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u138	Then I give the floor to Mr. Alkaya for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u139	I would ask the following to be quite clear, because Mr Van der Linde starts his speech again with the remark that he thinks the bonuses and the rewards are too high, and then he puts forward a motion on something quite different. So the actions are still lacking. I really wonder: what is preventing the VVD from tabling an amendment to this proposal and saying, for example, that we believe that the Minister is given too much power; that can lead to arbitrariness and we want to frame it? Why do you use that as an argument to vote against? At least, I suspect it would come down to that. Then why doesn't the VVD just come up with an amendment to frame it further, if the bonuses and rewards are apparently too high, whatever the VVD wants to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u140	Because we don't want that at all. We want the banks to do the right thing. This is not about bonuses, because we have long reduced them. In the Netherlands, we have the strictest bonus legislation in Europe. It's a maximum of 20%. So these bonuses are not at all on the table here. This is about the usual reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u141	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u142	That's really clear. Then just say, "We don't want it." I've been looking for that all day. Mr Van der Linde is always looking for technical problems. He says it's too far gone. He says it leads to randomness. Then just say, "I don't want to." Well, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u143	Finally, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u144	There is not a word of Spanish in what the VVD has brought into this debate. It's in the banks. They just have to do their job. We are not going to sit here with 150 MPs about what the Minister thinks of a reward package. That's not what we're here for. Of course, from a political point of view, that is a completely different approach; I understand that. But don't tell me I didn't tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u145	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm looking at the initiator to see if he wants to speak right away. From his physical point of view, I make that he wants and can. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. If I'm incomplete or inaccurate, I'll probably get a whisper on the right that I might need to clarify an answer. In the end, much of this debate focused mainly on the Minister's assent requirement. This is seen as a fundamental measure by the cabinet and by some parties of the coalition. Pretty big words have been used. I think Mr Van der Lee was right when he said: is this about: can't, or do we not want to? Perhaps it would be a good idea to quote exactly what the ECB has written to us. It is a public opinion, but I think it is important for the Acts and also for further and future discussions on competences that can or cannot be and how fundamental they are or are not. The ECB writes: "The ECB understands that, in the exercise of his/her competence under the proposal, the Minister would assess the appropriateness of a proposed fixed remuneration for new or existing directors on an individual basis with a view to a prudent, controlled and sustainable remuneration policy, taking into account the public support base. As long as the Minister does not assess whether the credit institutions fulfil their obligation to have sound governance arrangements, which falls within the competence of the ECB, this approach does not appear to be contrary to supervisory powers under the ECB Regulation." The ECB therefore says that this is not contrary to the ECB's powers. The governance arrangements are a matter for the ECB itself. Then the ECB then says that you should be careful, because: "I said this in the first term too "In this spirit, it should be avoided that any general measures of governance that further detail the rules on the appropriateness of remuneration could lead to a conflict with the ECB's supervisory powers." We have to be very precise here, and that was also my first-term answer. We have really done our best, also in our response to the opinion of the Council of State, to define very precisely that the Minister's consent requirement does not conflict with the ECB's powers and that we should pay attention to this when we go back to laying down detailed rules. That means, in view of Mr Van der Lee's question, whether it is not possible: I think it is possible. Legally, I can do it. It can also be done within the framework of European legislation. It may also take place in the context of the ECB's supervisory function and powers. Then there is the next question, and it is ultimately justified. I get that, too. If you look at how the Minister's approval requirement works in practice, then you can keep a story and have an idea, like Mr Van der Linde and Mr Ronnes, that every year in the pay season we have a political discussion on individual remunerations of bank directors on the basis of the Minister's consent requirement. If that is the case, then I agree with the coalition parties. This would be a fundamental measure leading to a fundamental change in the relationship between politics and banking. But I think that is based on an assumption as to how this proposal would work in practice. The aim of the proposal is precisely to prevent us from getting into that situation. I think there is much more political judgment there. And that is right, because that judgment must be given by all the political groups that are going to have to vote on the legislative proposal. Then you have to make a political judgment on: will you give this power to the minister? Then you make your own assessment of how you think it works in practice. But the idea of the proposers is that it will work differently than Mr Van der Linde is going to tell me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u147	I've been looking at the last ten years. I wouldn't know a year where we didn't discuss this subject. So why would a new bill change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u148	The strange thing about this debate is that I do not think we are very different on this issue. Mr Van der Linde does not want to introduce a standard either. The law already states that remuneration policy must be controlled. We have again tightened that in our legislative proposal on the basis of the new Banking Code. The Minister himself will work out in his legislative proposal how to account for the social function of the institution. This is just as open a standard as taking social support into account. So we all want that open standard in a certain way, because we want to give room for debate, discussion, within the enterprise and in the wider context of society. Then it is so that Mr Van der Linde is right in saying that this can also change over time. I think that 15 years ago we had a different debate on bank rewards than after the financial crisis, since we had to save them with a lot of taxpayers' money. This social practice thus also plays a role in the political and social assessment of acceptable remuneration relationships within the financial sector. So short and powerful: it is possible. The ECB points out that it can, but the question of how it will work in practice is, of course, the political judgement of the political groups as to how fundamental they consider it to be. We, as proposers, believe that we can defend this proposal in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u149	Let me make it clear that, according to the proposers in the European supervisory relations, it is possible to do so. But that does not mean that it can also be done within the Dutch legal order in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u150	I wouldn't know where exactly the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u151	There are among other things the objections that have been mentioned several times, about being aware of the law for people in the Netherlands, including companies. It contains a certain degree of legal certainty. Those are all legal arguments that "can it be done this way?" Get in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u152	One should never end up in hypothetical situations, but let us assume that in the future a finance minister would be completely arbitrary in dealing with this competence and sending back any future chairman of a supervisory board with a proposal that in all respects is a proposal that can be defended within the company and within society. I wonder whether this chairman of the Supervisory Board will then go to court and, if so, what the outcome will be. I understand the concerns, also from constitutional considerations, but honestly do not think that we will be dealing with legal proceedings very quickly on this point. Mr Ronnes asked: is ASR a good example? I think I already indicated that in my first term. ASR actually goes a lot further than we go in the initiative proposal. That is only to be praised, and I hope that will lead by example. I have already given a little answer to Mr Sneller. He also had these questions about the referee role, which I think is still needed as a sword of Damocles. Otherwise, we will not change that culture within the banks in the end. I really think that we cannot leave it alone with moral indignation and that we should also lay down rules as a policy and actually have an emergency brake. After all, it is not an imaginary fact that once again a very stubborn chairman of the Supervisory Board says, later on with the Minister's bill: I have looked carefully at the social function of our company and I believe that a salary increase of 50%, 100% or 200% can be justified. And where are we? Mr. Chairman. In my view, Mr Alkaya was particularly appealing to the coalition parties. I think it might be a good example for the coalition that there was dualism within the opposition and that he has also been able to table his own amendment. Cooperation can also be done this way. I think that's a good example. Mr Van Dijck also called in particular for the Minister and the coalition. I have already answered Mr Van der Linde, because his main criticism was also what the Minister's approval requirement was. I think that at least the proposers and the VVD continue to disagree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u153	It is always dangerous to see at the last minute whether the differences can still be bridged, but still a question to the initiators. I was triggered by what Mr Snels said about the assumption. Is this gonna work preventively or not? The question is whether we could or should take the time to see whether it works preventively or not. Would that be another way to persuade the opponents who are not ready at the moment to try to make sure it works preventively? Would that be a route to explore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u154	It is an interesting entrapment by Mr Van der Lee. We could of course say as proposers: for the time being we do not want to put the bill to the vote, but we leave the bill as such as Damocles' sword hanging over the market. In my view, however, it is difficult to prove whether it works in this way. At the same time, I argued, even in my first term, that the announcement of this bill a year ago, including the loud words that the Minister chose in his rejection of the remuneration proposal, was indeed very soon influenced by ING itself, but also by other financial institutions. That is still a very important argument for me that we politicians should not only be morally indignant and show this in the public debate, but that, if we are, we should take responsibility for laying down further rules ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you, then I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. No, Mr. Snels has another afterburner, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u156	Very briefly. In my first term, I thanked a lot of people, but I forgot the Bureau of Legislation. But Bureau Legislation is for us as an institution within the Chamber a very important device of a few employees who help us with own-initiative legislation. So here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u157	You said that now. Thank you. The Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mr President, thank you. I think there is one final question and one comment I would like to make, and then to the motions for resolutions. Perhaps I should say something in response to Mr Van Dijk's football comparison. He left, I see, but I'm gonna tell him anyway. It is, of course, an attractive comparison, but I would like to stress that, in this debate too, or perhaps I should say 'even in this debate', we should not make a caricature of the sector either. It is true that in the Dutch banking sector, especially when compared to abroad, there is a lot going well and that there are a lot of Dutch people who are working very hard there every day. What is being summoned at times is nothing but sorrow and torment, and that simply does not do justice to reality. I would have liked to have said that, despite the discussion we are also having about the remuneration. In my view, I have said many times how the cabinet is in there, but I do think that we should do so in balance and reasonable terms, to the institutions and to all the people who work there. Mr President, I am still impressed by the self-hidden Easter egg that Mr Van der Lee tried to get the proposers to unpack, but that is not up to me. Mr Ronnes asked: do these talks stop and do you talk about the initiatives? Yes, of course. The Prime Minister and I, as is well known in the Chamber, have recently been talking very widely to the sector about what we can expect from the sector. What are the things that go well in the eyes of the cabinet, but also: what are the concerns that the cabinet has? It is also a time to listen to what is happening in the sector itself. We discussed many different issues there. But of course, not only there, but also more often, and often in a smaller context, the social context in which banks operate is explicitly the subject of discussion. And so the discussion about salary is the subject of discussion. I have two more motions to respond to. And I would like to make another comment to Mr Van der Linde, but I will combine it with the reaction to the motion. No, Mr. Chairman, I'm saying it wrong. I only have one motion here, but she's been printed out three times for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u159	Perhaps you mean that you have something to say about Mr Alkaya's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u160	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat amendement heb ik dan hier weer niet voor me liggen.]] And I've tried to take off a semi-unseen amendment from one of the people around me. But that has cost me dearly, so perhaps I should take the text of Mr Alkaya's amendment as a whole. I simply do not have that amendment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u161	I'd like you to begin with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u162	I'll start with the motion. I always appreciate very much, including in the debate on number portability, content, reasonableness and, moreover, Mr Van der Linde's impatience. This motion is just a little complicated. It calls for action to be taken by 1 January 2021 at the latest. If you're listening to this, you think: that's pretty far away, because then we're two Christmas holidays away, so it should be possible. At the same time, Mr Van der Linde, like me, knows how difficult it is to achieve this. What I would like to say to him is that, when it comes to the new European Commission, I will once again draw attention to how important this is to us. I would also like to promise that I will come up with a non-paper on this particular subject. I can see whether other countries have been ported for this, because I honestly believe that this is not only an important subject, but also a rather agile subject. I do not know exactly how strong it is in other countries, but others might see the added value of this as well. The final commitment I would like to make is to give substance to my first term. We can, of course, ensure in the Netherlands that before the end of this year, so before the next Christmas holidays, we develop a number of variants for that alias use. I'll inform the Chamber about that. We can do that, in addition to having conversations with the sector. So if I could replace his motion with these commitments, we could then get closer together, my question is to Mr Van der Linde. I don't know if it's a rhetorical question; it might just be a question of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u163	I see that Mr Van der Linde is also looking at Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yeah, I'm looking at Mr. Faster, my partner in crime here. Then why don't we hold that motion? I see Mr Faster nodding. The alternative is that I'm going to water down the motion, and I don't feel anything like that at all, because then we'll get another research motion like that. So we are simply holding on to the motion and we are waiting in great suspense for what the Minister is probably going to come up with this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u165	Yes. I do feel that the level of tension and expectation is almost unreasonable. But I will also try to make it, at least in part, on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u166	It's really helping. If that motion hangs in the air, you can also use it to shield towards the benches. Then you can say: do you know that..., et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u167	I'll give you the rest of my appreciation. How do you say that again? Keep behind the wall mine's teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u168	At the request of Mr Van der Linde, I propose his motion (34906, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr. Chairman. I can see that the mood around me is rising even further. I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Alkaya. For the sake of precision: that is not so much up to me, but to the initiators. They must react a priori. But as an advisor, the essence of my opinion would be that what applies to the legislative proposal also applies to the amendment, namely that it does not solve the problems. My opinion on this is therefore not positive. Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the completeness and precision and once again thanks to the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u170	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-3.u171	The vote on the bill, the amendment and the motion will take place next Tuesday 14 May. Oh, no. The motion has been held. Sorry, Tuesday May 14th is after our recess. You don't have to come back from the recess to vote. I can reassure you. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:45 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work. Thank you.
