ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with a debate on the supervision of medical implants. I welcome the Minister for Medical Care and give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. For months of research worldwide at the initiative of Dutch journalists has revealed how in the world of medical implants sometimes irresponsiblely large risks are taken, at the expense of people rather than in the interest of people. The publications were unheard of. That so much was wrong was a big shock to a lot of people. Does this mean that everything goes wrong and not good things happen with and thanks to implants? Of course not. In many cases, implants also contribute to the health and quality of life of many people. But that does not alter the fact that there is a lot of work to be done to tackle abuses. Let me begin with a compliment to this Minister, because he shows with his letter of 21 December that this is an urgent subject for him too. Among other things, he is committed to better information, more research and better information, and this is important and right to do so. However, more needs to be done. I would like to put forward four proposals to the Minister, starting with a proposal on breast implants. 60% of all reports that are now coming into the Netherlands at the hotline are about breast implants. From pain to tiredness to reduced memory, the suspected side effects are really worrying. We have also been able to see and hear people in the broadcast of Radar with even more extreme miserable consequences. In France, the increased risk of a rare form of lymph node cancer due to breast implants was reason for their minister to advise against using textured implants. Our Minister rightly points out in his letter that smooth breast implants also pose risks, that we do not yet have enough of them and that he will therefore organise an international conference and also launch more research. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Minister advises women who want a breast implant for cosmetic reasons to postpone this procedure until research has given more insight into the risks of this treatment. I'd like a response. Mr President, second. We have been able to hear, among other things, from the technical briefing that the mandatory re-examination of authorised implants causes the notified bodies, the notified bodies, to have a capacity problem. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister is examining the possibility of setting up his own public notified body and thus avoiding the expected congestion. It is no secret that as far as GroenLinks is concerned, all notified bodies should be non-commercial. Unfortunately, this cannot be achieved in the short term. At least one additional public body would be a step in the right direction for that reason. I'd like a response. Mr President, third. The difference between a calamity and an incident is sometimes not great in implants. Incidents with implants can also have a very large impact on the quality of life of people. That is why it is important that this information is also known at the inspection. Now the Minister doesn't want to burden the caregivers with any more regulatory pressure. I understand that, but the good news is that it is not necessary at all and will not be necessary at all. As caregivers are obliged to report incidents to manufacturers, they only need to add the inspection as an address to their notification. Now let's really monitor as closely as possible. Incidents should be reported directly by the healthcare provider at the inspection and not via a detour through the manufacturer. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. More clinical studies should be carried out on the functioning and possible side effects of an implant before it can be admitted to the market and rightly so, the Minister agrees. In addition, it is important that we properly name what we want to know. Do you need dozens of extra trial patients? Do we want an international comparison group? There are hundreds of forms of clinical research and the MDR does not say what that more research now means. This required clinical trial must be genuinely substantial. Let the Netherlands now take the lead in developing and tightening these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u3	I found the point of the notified bodies mentioned by Mrs Ellemeet very interesting. She said, "Can't you have a public notified body?" I wonder if there are other countries in Europe where they might have that. What about European law? If we were to do so, would that be within European law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u4	I think that's a fair question. I'm also asking the Minister to investigate this. It must, of course, be legally possible and fit within European legislation. If there is such a possibility, it would indeed be a very interesting solution to an acute problem, namely that all implants admitted to the market should be re-examined because of stricter regulation. Frankly, I have the same questions as Mr Raemakers. I hope that, if there is such a possibility, the Minister will work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u5	If it were possible, then my question would be how the supervision of such a public notified body would be arranged. Currently, a notified body is under the control of VWS, the IGJ and the European Commission, which also supervises. Does Mrs Ellemeet want to have the same kind of supervision of those publicly notified bodies, or does she see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u6	The good news of the new regulation is that supervision of those notified bodies is being strengthened. To be honest, I am still not sufficiently reassured that this strengthened regulation will be sufficient for these commercial bodies, which, by definition, have a different interest than the public interest alone. How exactly that will relate to a public body, we must indeed investigate carefully. It can't be that the butcher approves his own flesh. I understand your point, so I would also like to pass on this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. There is a very big difference between this government's actions on the one hand, the Stint and on the other hand, the stent. The Stint is a means of transport that caused an intensely sad fatal accident in Oss. The Minister responsible immediately removed the means of transport from the Dutch roads. The soluble stent is an implant placed between 2012 and 2017 in thousands of dotted patients to prevent narrowing of the coronary artery. But it increases the risk of thrombosis and can lead to a heart attack with fatal outcome. Patients served as guinea pigs without being aware of this themselves. This was revealed by research by Argos and Follow the Money. Many patients don't even know if they have a metal or a soluble stent. Exactly how many patients have a soluble stent is not even possible, while all these patients should be evaluated by the cardiologist. What should be done here, I ask the Minister. So far, I haven't heard anything. In fact, he is taking measures to further subtract his hands from the trade in medical devices. For example, it does not want to establish that notified bodies responsible for granting a CE marking to medical devices are covered by the Framework Law on self-employed administrative bodies. As a result, the Minister has no control over the policies pursued by the appointed authorities and does not have to answer to the Chamber for this, while the aid industry has the typical characteristics of the consequences of a regressing government. The interests of the manufacturers of the tools are on the rise. They push doctors for their cart by offering their pockets with money when they advertise their product. The Minister stands by and looks at it, while this is about human lives. Patients are exposed to fatal health risks. They rely on the quality of healthcare delivered in our country, but meanwhile devices are placed in their bodies that can cause life-long nuisance or even cause death, because safety and quality are not sufficiently tested. And the government should assume the role of granting market access and not leave it to commercial notified bodies. Then there's the legal ban on favors. The Code of Conduct for Medical Devices Foundation is committed to improving clarity. But isn't this mopping with the crane open, while the exceptions continue to exist? The Minister acknowledges that other than health interests can also play a role in the choice of implants. But why doesn't he take action by abolishing exceptions to the ban on grace? Why not? The shameless promotion of implants shows that self-regulation does not work. Then there's another question. How can patients demonstrate that the complaint they are experiencing is actually caused by that implant? Do patients no longer need to be protected here by reversing the burden of proof and placing it with the manufacturer? Allow the manufacturer to demonstrate that the complaints are not caused by the implant and make doctors and institutions jointly liable, so that they think twice before going into business with a supplier if the safety and efficacy of a product has not yet been sufficiently demonstrated. I'd also like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. Why doesn't the Minister choose to ban silicone breast implants? We have seen that France has taken a much stronger position there. The Minister for Health was very clear about that. I also ask the Minister to proceed with a ban as a precaution, because there are also safe alternatives. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. It was a short night, I think for many of us. But now we're back here to talk about a very important topic, about implants, medical devices in your body. When I read the documents for this debate, I noticed a very big difference. When you read the pieces, it's about notified bodies, about CE labels, about all kinds of abbreviations, such as the Lroi, the LIR, MDR and bar coding. I thought it was all very technical and official. I was thinking, what is it about? When you watch that broadcast of RADAR, you can see that this is really about people. It's about human lives that have changed forever. An implant is a device that is brought into a body with the intention that it always stays in that body. If something doesn't go well with that hip prosthetic, that pacemaker or that breast implant, people can suffer for a lifetime. So that's very far-reaching. What I missed a little bit in that broadcast of RADAR, Mrs Ellemeet mentioned, even though this is the following. Those tools, of course, are meant to help people. The great innovation we have seen in the field of implants is, of course, very positive in principle, because we want to be able to help more and more people. Only, I think we have to see that we are a little out of touch with each other. There are over 500,000 implants now. If you introduce an implant at some point, you can also easily market similar models. It is no longer clear whether such an implant will work. The fraction of D66 is very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Raemakers, like everyone else, has been very shocked by the broadcast of RADAR. Of course, we are not talking about medical implants for the first time. Ergo, we've been talking about this a few years ago, during legal treatment. My group then tabled an amendment on uniform barcoding. D66 voted in favour. But suddenly, at the end of last year, the Minister's novelle came: go, that amendment had to go. How does Mr. Raemakers view that now, with the knowledge of today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u12	That's a good question. Mrs Agema indeed tabled an amendment at that time. That amendment also came through the support of D66, because we very much share the aim of the amendment. We really say: there must be stricter rules to protect people, because this is about people. We have only received back from the government that this is contrary to European law. That has also been looked at very closely in legal terms. There is now a European regulation and there will also be a new law from this minister which will solve the problem of people not being adequately protected by the world's many implants. I would also very much like to hear from the Minister how that will be resolved. I agree with Mrs Agema that it is very unfortunate that this amendment could not be because of European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u13	Well, that wasn't because of European law, you know. It was a disturbance of the market order. It was about money. It was about big polish from the manufacturers. It's about billions of manufacturers. D66 has helped to ensure that the importance of patients carrying medical implants in their bodies has been set aside for the Brussels lobby, for the market disruption the Minister mentioned at the time. Big money. That's what's going on, and that's what you're partly responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u14	I also saw, of course, that the Radar broadcast talks about lobbying in the European Union. I don't know how that all goes behind the scenes. What I can see is that I, as a Member of Parliament and the D66 Group, very much want stricter rules in this area. The government states that this cannot be done because of European law. We regret that. We would also very much like to hear from the Minister how he can better protect vulnerable people who can suffer from such an implant for a lifetime. So I think we share the goal. I am also very disappointed that European law stood in the way here, and that is why I want to hear from the Minister how he is going to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u15	Due to the change in the amendment, patients with medical implants are not even traceable. All D66 concerns are worth nothing at all because you have supported that the Minister with a novelle has thwarted and reversed the amendment to uniform barcoding, which allows patients to be traced at all. I was just asking D66, will you return at your feet? Do you now regret that you took the decision at the time to reverse that amendment for a uniform barcode?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think we're repeating ourselves. Mrs. Agema and I share the goal of better protecting patients. We are also very pleased that the Minister mentions many measures in his letter. I should like to take this up with you in a moment. We share the frustration and feeling that it is a pity that European law in this area stands in the way of greater protection. European law sets minimum standards, and it must be in line with them. But I think we share the frustration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr President, I shall continue my speech. I really want to know two things from this minister today. The first one is about the notified bodies. That sounds a little spooky. Notified bodies are notified bodies, but let's face it: there are technically trained staff who have to look very closely at whether or not implants are safe for people. So that is a very important task. We've got a hell of a cut on the labour market. We see a lot of implants being reported. It is said in the field: there are so many implants that we have too few people to be able to control all these implants properly. So my question to the Minister would be: is the Minister sure that those notified bodies are sufficiently equipped? Is he sure there's enough staff? What can VWS do to ensure that there is sufficient staff? I would also like to mention the influence of the Brexit. We know the Brexit doesn't come in too long. It may well affect health care and the system of notified bodies. Can the Minister state what's going on? Mr. Chairman. Then I go to another important point: side effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen first. No? Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u20	There is a classification of calamities, incidents and side effects. D66 feels that sometimes things don't need to be reported too easily. We read in the Minister's letter that the Minister is going to launch a campaign on the hotline and the centre of expertise. It's about side effects. We would like to ask the Minister whether this campaign has already started. Because in the letter of 5 February 2019, the Minister says: "My intention to increase the awareness of the centre through a campaign will only have an effect if reports about an implant are adequately explained." It is striking that the Minister says: a campaign is effective, but only if I take additional steps. D66 would very much like to see this willingness to report from healthcare professionals examined. Can the Minister investigate the readiness to report? And, finally, if this willingness to report is not high enough, does the Minister intend to require the reporting of side effects in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u21	I can tell Mr Raemakers that there is a need for greater transparency and more information. I'll share it with him. One of my concerns is that there are relationships between doctors, sometimes also in medical-university centres, and industry. Follow the Money exposed those relationships. Many of them are not registered in the Transparency Register. The Labour Party would like a mandatory transparency register. Would Mr Raemakers support that? 'Cause I feel this need for him to explain the, let's say, sneakyness to the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u22	I think it is a very good point from Mrs Ploumen. Mrs Ellemeet said in the interrupting debate that we do not want a situation in which the butcher approves his own meat. We don't want that here either. So we don't want that kind of mixture. Firstly, as regards transparency, I am pleased that the Minister also said to my questions on this in November: we are going to ensure that all those incidents, which are internationally known, can be found everywhere in the Netherlands. That's very important. From 1 January there will be a National Implant Register, so I can see that the government, this minister, is really working on increasing transparency. On this point, I would also like to say that there must be sufficient independence between the person who makes an implant and the person who eventually puts it in. I agree with Mrs Ploumen that we should look very closely at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u23	I thank Mr Raemakers. The Labour Party is preparing an initiative proposal to make that register compulsory. If you have nothing to hide, you don't have to get nervous about it. When I hear Mr Raemakers like that, I do feel some willingness to look with us at the possibilities. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If there is a problem with a medical implant, the patients must be able to be traced so that a solution can be provided. I wish it were that simple. Because there is no uniform bar encoding now, it is not possible to determine who has which implant that is wrong with. To stress its importance again, I quote the Chief Inspector of Medical Technology in the inspection: "Once you have an implant, it takes a lifetime of monitoring. If you don't have any side effects right now, you might get them in ten years." It is a pity that this omission is an active policy. Our adopted amendment on uniform barcoding from April 2017, which would ensure this, was actively reversed by this minister through a novelle, due to possible market disruption. So that's what it's all about: money. And you, ladies and gentlemen, have all voted in favour of this. You're all stunned, all of you. Earlier in the process, there are the supervisors. It's their job to make sure there's a report if there's anything wrong with a medical implant so patients can know about it. And that supervision fails. My question to the Minister is what he has done to restore this monitoring since the release of the research on which the television programme RADAR broadcasted and which we are discussing today? I find the numbers rather shocking. In ten years time, 1.7 million people worldwide suffered injuries from implants, and 83.000 deaths were to be regretted. Imagine that. For 83.000 people worldwide, a medical solution became fatal. That's weird. In doing so, researchers believe that hospitals report only 14% of all events. They also note that the supervision of medical devices is not as weak in the Western world as in the European Union, thanks to the lobbyists in Brussels. And what does our minister do? Nothing. I'll mention some of the problems. Doctors and hospitals, for example, are not obliged to report defects, as this is left to manufacturers. But, of course, they have no interest in that. Manufacturers enter into contracts with top doctors stating that all findings must be kept secret. These contracts are missing from the Transparency Register. Apparently, the Code of Conduct on Medical Devices is not working, as only one complaint has been dealt with since 2012. What a mockery! And how is that possible? There are very large financial interests. The fact that the largest medical device manufacturer lost 3.2 billion euros in ten years to court cases and settlements involving 20,000 patients around the world highlights how big these interests are. This company therefore concludes contracts with doctors, of which more and more are being concluded in the Netherlands. What is the Minister going to do about this? Surely it is not possible for manufacturers to influence doctors to sell as many tools as possible and to link incidents back to the manufacturer instead of the inspection, and have them sign confidentiality clauses? We don't live in a banana republic, do we? Forbid these kind of sneaky contracts, I say to the Minister. In addition, there should be a reporting obligation for all side effects, defects and incidents surrounding implants and devices, not to the manufacturer of course, but to the inspection. I made this proposal on 27 November last year. Did the Minister get to work on this? Finally, I received an e-mail about pelvic floor mats, which were frequently debated in this house a few years ago. A lady pointed out to me the following recommendations from the 2013 IGZ report. Research had to be carried out into the best possible treatment of complications after surgery with plastic mats, and attention should be paid to recognising these complications. Patient complaints had to be taken seriously, and women with serious complications should be referred to a centre of expertise. I ask the Minister: what happened to these recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mrs Agema is right to talk about the enormous interests of manufacturers. They're profit-making. They have other interests in mind than just the importance of the patient's health. Now the Minister wants to organise it in such a way that incidents by the healthcare provider must be reported to the manufacturer, and that the manufacturer then has to report the incidents to the inspection. That's a detour anyway. Does Mrs Agema agree with me that the health care provider should report incidents directly to the inspection, because these manufacturers have a different interest and we still have to see whether they would actually report incidents to the inspection in all cases, even if they are required to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u28	Yes. I have just said that in my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u29	You went a little fast. So I didn't know if you were saying this. But then we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u30	It must always be reported directly to the inspection rather than to the manufacturer, and it should not be agreed in secret contracts anyway, which is happening now. I also said in a previous debate: make an institute like Lareb, the institute for the side effects of medicines; do the same here. But I think that in this case the inspection might just be the most appropriate platform. So I made the same proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When choosing to use an implant, patients should be able to assess whether the effect of this procedure outweighs the risks and possible side effects. We are pleased that the Minister has taken various steps to improve information at least. But what is the Minister going to do for patients who already have an implant? How is follow-up care organised for these patients? The investigation of Trouw and Radar shows that controls on medical implants are very flawed and that this puts lives at risk. How is it possible that a German health organisation did warn against defects, but that our own inspection did not issue a warning? In addition, this weekend Argos came up with the news that Dutch doctors have placed soluble stents on thousands of heart patients without pointing out the risks. Those risks, which caused at least one person to die, were already known at the inspection in 2014. What happens to these doctors? What is the impact of the contracts they have with the medical industry? The worst part is, these patients can't be traced at the push of a button. While a pack of milk at the push of a button can be traced in which supermarket it is sold, that is not the case for these patients. Some implants do know such registers, such as orthopedics and cardiology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u33	I am very happy to be quoted here in this Chamber, because of course those were my words during oral Question Time that we had a few months ago: a pack of milk is traceable in four hours and a medical implant is not. Now the case is that this uniform barcode has been reversed in the amendment we tabled, which makes that medical implant traceable. The CDA has supported its reversal. So why these crocodile tears?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u34	I do not think we supported the amendment because there was a legal issue. Mr Raemakers has just explained this. I believe that Mrs Agema's aim is also supported by the CDA. On the other hand, it is also worth noting that both orthopedics and cardiology without that uniform barcoding are able to trace to each patient what implant was used when.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u35	It seems as if the CDA and D66 have agreed to bring forward the legal impossibility of the amendment here, but of course it was not at all on the agenda. It was a market disturbance. It was and it's a lot of money. It is about billions and billions and the interests defended in Brussels by all those manufacturers. That is the responsibility that the CDA should take here instead of crying crocodile tears in the sense of: hey, that pack of milk is traceable in four hours and that medical implant is not. The CDA is absolutely responsible for that not being the case in the Netherlands, firstly by not supporting the amendment and secondly by supporting the reversal of the amendment. Therefore there is no uniform barcoding, therefore implants are not traceable and therefore patients cannot be found if something is wrong with an implant. That is a direct responsibility of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u36	As I just said, the Minister explained the legal complications of that amendment. Again, the goal is wholeheartedly supported. As an example, I mentioned orthopedics and cardiology, which are therefore well regulated. One of our questions to the Minister is whether, in fact, all the implants that are now listed on the inclusion list should not go to such a register.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u37	It was a market disturbance. It was about money. The CDA has stumbled into it. I hope that Mrs van den Berg of the CDA, instead of crying crocodile tears, realizes that it is her responsibility that there is currently no uniform barcoding and that medical implants that are wrong with it are not traceable to the CDA, that these people cannot be summoned and that no solution can be offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u38	Again, those legal complications have just been explained. I would also like to reiterate that there are two registers, namely orthopedics and cardiology, which demonstrate excellently that even without that barcoding being uniform, it would make it even easier for each patient to trace when which implant is placed in the body and how it develops. So one can literally trace which patient has which implant at the press of a button.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mrs Van den Berg rightly raised the issue of soluble stents. The broadcast of Argos last Saturday was truly shocking. I have a few questions. One. What does the CDA think of the role of inspection in this matter? Two. Does the CDA not agree with the SP that all patients should be tracked and evaluated by the cardiologists who placed the stents?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr President, finally, if I may. Three. It has been suggested by the patient association that the Safety Research Council should conduct a study on implants in a somewhat larger context, including the soluble stents. What does the CDA think of that idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u42	That's three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u43	Yeah, it looks like it's a written round of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u44	The first concerns the role of inspection. One of my questions to the Minister will also be about that. The minister says he's going to extend the inspection to 11.5 people. We find that rather little in itself. Then how does the Minister intend to supervise all these risks? There are thousands of implants. With Mr. Van Gerven, we are concerned that the inspection has sufficient capacity to do so. The second is whether everyone should be tracked down. At least I understood from the broadcast that what we were just talking about is not necessarily traceable at the push of a button. That, of course, worries us. That is why we are in favour of all the implants that are now on the inclusion list, which must therefore be reported in the national implant register, having such a register with which one can be traced per person. With regard to the question about the Security Research Council, I would like to await the Minister's response in the first place, before I respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u45	It's a good thing the minister reflects on this case. Finally. Should it not at least be the case that the inspection should ensure that the dome of cardiologists in the Netherlands requires all patients to be tracked down? Because of course that dome can trace which stents have been used by the cardiologists. They were there themselves, so they know which material was used. Patients should also be adequately supervised, because it's a big deal when you have an implant with such high risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u46	Here too, I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks are the facts and what the inspection can impose in order to achieve this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u48	Now I need to see where I was. I was there: people can't be found at the push of a button. Some implants do know such registers, such as orthopedics and cardiology. Is the Minister prepared to work towards a single mandatory standard standard quality register for implants in which patient data is kept? And does he think that this system should also be linked to the side effects reporting point? The investigation shows that on the website of the inspection there is only information on emergencies up to a year ago. Can the Minister ensure that previously reported security notifications come online and can be easily found? We tried that ourselves and thought that was quite a challenge. In this way, both the patient and the doctor have the right information. Mr. Chairman. Due to limited tests with pre-implants, it is important to know whether a device is safe, so sometimes serious side effects only come to light when the implant is already in the patient. This so-called post-market surveillance, then supervision, leaves much to be desired. Thus, in response to my questions, the Minister writes that the inspection may call on healthcare institutions to approach their patients. Why not oblige that, with unambiguous information? Is it true that each care facility is now determined whether and how the patient is approached? The ICIJ, the International Consortium of Research Journalists, indicates that the notified bodies issue safety certificates on often unclear grounds. The adoption of new medical devices remains in the hands of these commercial parties in the new regulation. Can the Minister guarantee that the control and authorisation of new medical devices is carried out in a clear and transparent manner, and that there is much better supervision of notified bodies? The Minister indicated that the medical technology inspection team would be expanded, but that would still cover only 11.5 people in total. How will the inspection organise its monitoring? There are thousands of medical devices and implants. Finally, Mr President. The importance of good supervision is reflected in the report on fillers injected without authority. I have asked questions about this before and again now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The TV program Radar and daily Trouw published shocking reports about the practice of medical implants in November, not the first time. It wasn't about an incident here or there, which in itself would be bad enough. No, an international collective of investigative journalists has done long-term deep and thorough research. We were shocked by the findings. That is why we are now holding this debate together. Of course, the people with implants were rightly concerned. Some of them have been asking for recognition of their complaints for some time. They fight tirelessly for that and deserve our respect. I know that many of them are following this debate. Many of them wrote and called me, too. I want to thank them for sharing their experiences. It is an expensive duty for us to jointly ensure that supervision, control and notification of implants are improved. The Minister has put forward proposals for this, but they do not go far enough as far as the PvdA Group is concerned. So I have some questions. The authorisation and control are actually in the hands of manufacturers and notified bodies. Notified bodies are companies for profit. Manufacturers pay them to do checks. A manufacturer may choose which company he selects for this purpose. In our view, the supervision of notified bodies is far too limited, especially since all these bodies have to take improvement measures after a check. I have three questions for the Minister. One. Can the Minister guarantee that all information is available to doctors and patients at all times, including unpleasant information that has emerged at admission and control? Two. Why does the Minister not follow the advice of the Health Council to place the evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of implants and the evaluation of complaints in the hands of the Medicines Evaluation Board? Three. The Minister does not want a statutory transparency register. In what way will he guarantee that all information that we and the patient need to know and which should be known to the government is also reported and registered? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the incident reports. The government is legally responsible for the admission, quality and safety requirements of high-risk medical devices. But in the end, the government shifts that responsibility to doctors. They need to inform patients, but these are health risks and sometimes serious consequences for patients. The inspection should be able to identify and inform all patients immediately in case of a calamity or suspicion of a serious adverse reaction. Why is there no overall overview of which patient has an implant and what side effects have occurred? Setting up a system like that doesn't have to be complicated. The Federation of Medical Specialists has made good and sensible suggestions for this. I'd like a response from the Minister to those suggestions. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to go into the Allergan breast implants specifically. The manufacturer brought it back. How many women in the Netherlands have these Allergan-textured implants? Why hasn't the CE marking been extended? Is the missing information in the files of other manufacturers? In Quebec, Canada, all women who have received breast implants since 1995 are actively informed by the government. Why doesn't this minister do that? Compensation for the removal of this type of prostheses and other types of prostheses that have affected women is, of course, a medical necessity. Women worry, have complaints and are afraid of the problems with their implants. I would like the Minister's promise that these operations will be reimbursed in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u51	The PvdA also wants a system of uniform bar encoding. Then why did the PvdA vote in favour of the Minister's novelle a few months ago, in which the uniform barcode was removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u52	I can only say that on the basis of the results of the studies of Radar and Trouw, the conversations I had with patients and my own research, I now see that with what I now know, the PvdA Group would cast a different vote and support Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u53	What a sincere, honest and sympathetic conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u54	Look. Thank you. Finally, Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Raemakers said, this is a rather separate day to have this debate, but that does not make the issue any less important. I can see this in the involvement of my colleagues here. It is impressive what medical implants mean to improve the quality of life of many patients. Think of the people who, despite suffering from severe cardiac arrhythmias, can still lead a normal life thanks to an implanted pacemaker or an ICD. Personally, I was thinking of someone familiar with Parkinson's disease. He actually had to withdraw completely from public life because of that nasty disease while he was very active in it. Normal functioning was no longer possible despite heavy drug use, but after an operation where two electrodes were placed in his brain for the so-called deep brain stimulation, he almost completely got his life back. That's impressive. But, as many colleagues have pointed out, there are really not just nice stories to tell around these implants. There are concerns. There are scandals. Think of the scandals with the PIP breast implants from France, where completely different silicones were found than what was agreed. Think of the misery that arose with metal joint implants, the misery with pelvic floor mats and the serious problems that some women experience after implanting silicone breast implants. Despite existing regulations, side effects and abuses are still far from always in sight. And that's undesirable. Precisely because implants are so important, it is crucial that they are also safe. The VVD is therefore pleased that since this year all used medical implants have been registered in the Implant Register, which now also has a legal basis, and that it is now also linked to the digital patient file and the patient is also informed. It is good that the Netherlands has anticipated the obligation in the upcoming European Regulation for medical devices that obliges manufacturers to provide a so-called implant card with the implant. The VVD supports the Minister in his decision to support research at the RIVM with additional resources, which investigates the long-term effects of medical implants. Precisely because it is impossible to test all the effects and side effects of a medical implant in advance, it is crucial that these effects are closely monitored in practice. That has not always happened well in the past, and it really needs to be done better. Another improvement is that since mid-2017 there has been a hotline at the RIVM, the hotline and expertise centre for medical implants. Like Mr Raemakers, I am curious about the situation. In his letter, the Minister stated that he did not consider the hotline to be sufficiently well known and that he was going to start an information campaign. I wonder whether it has already started and whether we can see anything of a result. For safety reasons, it may sound a bit uncomfortable, but it is true that there is a connection between medics and the supplier of a medical implant. You need to know how to use it, people need to be trained. These are all logical things, but they must be properly recorded in the Transparency Register. It is absolutely not desirable that these connections remain unknown. That would suggest that the wrong interests prevail. Can the Minister confirm that the situation described, for example, by Follow-the-Money cannot or should not be present at the moment because of the increased requirements surrounding the Transparency Register? How can he act when the manufacturer, supplier and doctor fail to comply with the rules? Does the Minister himself think that the current agreements are sufficient, or should they be better and sharper? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you to Mr Arno Rutte for his words, which, of course, I fully agree with. I also asked Mr Raemakers. After all, we are proposing a compulsory Transparency Register, because we see that, sometimes out of inability or ignorance and sometimes out of unwillingness, it does not end up in the register that we now have. I really understand that Mr Rutte is not going to say here that it is a great idea, but would he still like to reflect on the advantages that such an obligation could offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u57	I believe that Mrs Ploumen and I are pursuing the same objective, which is clear what connections there are and that they comply with the rules we have agreed with each other. We do not want shadowy constructions, I do not want doctors to have other interests than the patient's interest at the time they are working on an implant. There is already a voluntary Transparency Register, but the question is how voluntary that actually is. There is indeed a connection between the Medical Devices Act and the Transparency Register. There is already a ban on grace, on wrong grace; that is already in the law. Those two cases are linked. But exactly my question is also to what extent you could already see that as a legal obligation. Is it in practice yet? There are parties who have approached me and say that in practice there is already a legal obligation by the link between the Medical Devices Act and the voluntary register. If so, we must be able to act. If it is not, perhaps we should consider other steps. So I am not against Mrs Ploumen's proposal, but I would like to know exactly what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u58	It is an important point, the potential influence of doctors by industry. Some of those contracts have been revealed by Follow the Money. One of these contracts concerned a specialist, a contract of up to €50,000, in which he had to provide services to the manufacturer Atricure. Travel times could also be declared up to €1,500. What is the VVD's opinion on this example? Is this permissible or does the VVD think that this should not be possible with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u59	The example given by Mr Van Gerven, found by Follow the Money, is pre-January 1, 2018. I have a serious suspicion that it is no longer allowed under current laws and regulations. It's important to report that divorce. If I'm wrong, the Minister could report it. But I think that is the case. So we are talking about situations from the past that the VVD also believes were very generously paid. I have just said that it is not unreasonable for doctors to be paid if they have to train or provide guidance, including to colleagues, how to deal with a particular tool, but if this is no longer justified and is no longer proportionate to that task, it is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u60	We will also hear from the Minister what he thinks of this case and your remark that this is probably not the right time to do so anymore. I wonder if that's true. But then, on the one hand, the amount of the sums paid remains, but, on the other hand, whether a specialist should provide such services at all. Because if you provide such a service to a manufacturer, isn't it conceivable that he's going to lose that product he's involved in? Wouldn't it be better if we set a very clear rule: a specialist doesn't do that in principle, we separate those interests very strictly? We also do this, for example, in the case of medicines, where we also keep this much more strictly separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr. Van Gerven is just right when he points out that you don't want to have any wrong intentions around money that you get from a device manufacturer. So that's undesirable, we just agree. But I do hope that Mr Van Gerven will also understand, and I think he will understand, that these kinds of tools, some of which I have just mentioned and some of which are extremely complex, require knowledge to be able to use them. It's not plug-and-play. You have to understand how to implant them, what the effect and the side effect is and how to deal with them. For that kind of thing you need medical knowledge and it is not surprising that on that ground there is a connection between the person who makes the implant and doctors who gain knowledge and experience with it and who train other colleagues with it. So it is not as black and white as Mr Van Gerven says, but we must have clear and good rules. Mr. Chairman. In order to improve the safety of medical implants, it is very important that the new legislation on medical devices implementing the new European directive in this area should be dealt with quickly by the Court. It's ready, too, so I think we can do that in a couple of weeks. This new law provides new safeguards for the safe admission of implants to the Dutch market. Perhaps even more important is the fact that the operation and update will be much better registered at European level, all of which the VVD is strongly in favour of for the sake of patient safety. As far as the VVD is concerned, therefore, we will be working on this law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Rutte said earlier that he was concerned about a possible congestion that would result in the admission of implants to registered bodies, because of course so much is now coming towards these bodies. Now I have suggested in my speech, or actually asked the Minister: consider whether it would be possible, also in the light of this great task, whether a public notified body could be added to it. What does Mr Rutte think of this request to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u63	I understand the request. I don't know if it's gonna make a lot of sense. There is just an acute shortage of capacity around those notified bodies, notified bodies, partly caused by concerns surrounding Brexit. Many of these bodies are in the United Kingdom and it is only a question of whether certificates issued there are still valid in the Netherlands in a week and a half. So there's a lot of pressure on the existing agencies. In that sense, I do not think that we can achieve more capacity, but I do not think that you stomp such an instance out of the ground, not if it is an audience and not if it is a private one. The schism between them is a debate and we do not need to talk about that. So if there are opportunities to quickly realize additional capacity, I find that interesting, but I doubt it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u64	The Brexit is indeed one of the reasons. We also know, of course, that the stricter regulations also apply to the implants already authorised. We have a little longer time for that, until 2024 I say out of my mind. So it's not like a new notified body has to be ready in a month's time, so to speak. At the same time, both Mr Rutte and I know that we do have a problem and that there is limited capacity. All right, I interpret Mr Rutte's words so that we are both curious about the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u65	That's right. Let's just get to this point. That is what I really want to involve in the legislation that we are about to deal with. I also wonder whether, in some cases, we should not be able to give priority to certain tools in notified bodies. There's a really big pipeline, and it seems to be closed. A lot of companies have already filled that pipeline. Perhaps we should approach this in a different way, but certainly in the next debate we still have a chance to get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you, Mr. Arno Rutte. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Actually, I'd like to have a short suspension until 11:55. Minister, you're looking at me in the eye. Then why don't we suspend for ten minutes until noon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr President, a few very factual questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u68	But I don't think they're new. Anyway, I'll suspend until noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u69	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about implants today. We do that here in the Chamber, but I know that the country is watching this debate, as some of you have already said. Mrs Ploumen referred to the women who are interested in this issue. I have been in regular contact with Mrs Roes during the last period. You know her from the broadcast of RADAR. She has incredibly many horrible side effects of implants, from different generations of implants. I find it incredibly brave that, for example in the broadcast, but also in the conversations and in the mail exchange I have had with her and in the book that she has given me, she always focuses her attention on the subject, while to this day she suffers from these implants. It's a huge influence on her quality of life. On the one hand, we are talking about policy measures here. That's the way it is; that's our role. On the other hand, I believe that we are also doing it for Mrs Roes and the women who have united in the foundation for women with silicone implants, SVS, who are probably listening and watching. Mr. Chairman. Patients should be able to rely on good care. Implants are an integral part of this good care. There are implants that save lives. Think of pacemakers. There are also cosmetic implants, which can mean a lot to people. Think of the dental implants that make people laugh again. But there are also concerns about the safety of implants. I take those concerns seriously. I believe that extra attention is needed to improve the patient safety of implants. I am committed to reducing the risks of implants and at the same time I want to ensure that implants remain available for patients who need them. Mr. Chairman. European legislation becomes stricter when it comes to medical devices, whose implants are a subset. As you know, the new regulation is on its way. This regulation has been prepared in recent years and will enter into force next year. That means: stricter requirements for those notified bodies. This means: stricter requirements on the clinical evidence to be provided, especially for high-risk devices. Manufacturers need to better substantiate that the tool is safe and that it does what it promises. It also states that there will be stricter controls for high-risk devices before such a device is on the market. There will be an extra check by panel experts or by laboratories. If the product is on the market, there will also be stricter rules. Manufacturers should not only process complaints or notifications, but also actively request data from users. The European Commission's medical device database EUDAMED is on its way. I really expect a lot of that. I expect that the information on the tools, the manufacturers, the notified bodies will be available at one point. I expect that database to be available to supervisory authorities on the one hand and, on the other hand, to a large extent, patients, healthcare institutions, manufacturers and notified bodies on the other. These are a number of measures that have been agreed in Europe in recent years. The Chamber has always been kept informed. This is one step, but I believe that more can be done and that this must be done at Dutch level. Where there is room for European regulation, there must and can be more. I wrote about this in the letter I sent to the Chamber earlier. I would like to take a few points out before I come to the answer to the questions. Mr. Chairman. The Meldpunt en Expertisecentrum Side effects Implants does not exist for very long, but it is completely unknown. I think we need to work very hard on that. The parties behind that hotline are also interested in the fact that RIVM, the Federation of Medical Specialists, Lareb and other parties are also well-known and easily found by patients. We're gonna start that campaign this spring. The preparations have been made. We haven't got any results yet, but we're gonna use it to get the publicity. I'm getting the help of Mrs. Helweg. It will increase the awareness of the hotline; I do not think that advertising is the right expression in this respect. That's one action. Mr. Chairman. There is already a Stichting SVS Meldpunt Complaints Silicone. I find two hotlines confusing. We've contacted this foundation to see if there's any way to get the information from both hotlines. That also helps to raise awareness. That's one. Two. In last year's broad agreement, we agreed on the three important questions relating to 'decisions together'. What are the possibilities for a treatment for me? What are the pros and cons and what does that mean in my situation? I want to strengthen that campaign, specifically for implants. This leads to the elaboration of these three good questions, specifically for deciding on implants together. We do not want a situation where here is the doctor's level of information and there is the patient's level of information. They both need that clarity. That's what we're gonna work on. It should also be something of a campaign. It should not only be established in conversations and documents, it should also be organised online, in waiting rooms and in cooperation with patient associations and professional groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u71	Does the Minister agree with me that you can only make a good decision together if you have all but all the information available with a specific implant and the side effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u72	Yes, the practical collection of useful and useful information, I would like to say. It could be different for everyone. There was a question from Mrs Van den Berg. She said: at the inspection you can find some information about 2018; information from November 2018 towards now. I took a look, too. There's more information. It's just hard to access. I therefore believe that both the search for practical information on the one hand and the practical accessibility on the other should be strengthened. I know what Mrs Ploumen is referring to. She says: should we build a legal basis under the Transparency Register or under favor? I can answer the question later, but I can answer it now. That Transparency Register does not belong to the government. We have exchanged this with each other before, I believe, in the budgetary procedure. The fact that an evaluation is to be carried out gives us arguments, I think, to see whether progress in what has now been made transparent in favour, go far enough or whether additional work needs to be done. That review of the Transparency Register Take care of tools that lag behind those for medicinal products that come around the summer. I suggest we talk about that then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u73	Actually, I was referring to something else. It turns out in practice that it is almost impossible to see which implants have exactly which side effects and what the findings of the notified bodies are. So a lot of information is simply not made available because manufacturers prefer to keep it to themselves. I would like to ask the Minister how he intends to solve that problem now. Again, deciding together can only be done if you really have information about all the relevant parts that lead to a good decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u74	Mr President, this requires a bit of technique, but it will only have to be for a moment. We have quality records that contain information on implants. A number of occupational groups called cardio, gynecology, orthopedics, plastic surgeons; Mrs Van den Berg also mentioned them earlier. I find that incredibly valuable. I believe that the information that such a professional group has on the implants on the one hand and on the patients carrying implants on the other hand is good and useful information, which can also be shared with those patients in case of emergency, and you yourself spoke about it. That's one thing. In addition, we have since a few years the Meldpunt and Expertise Center Side Effects Implants. I also think that this is a very good centre, which I would like to use for that. So I think it is important that that hotline is strong and well-known. It is of parties other than the scientific associations; it stands in addition. That's the second part. Thirdly, we have that National Implant Register, which is ahead of European regulation and EUDAMED, and where the inspection is the administrator of, one might say. So you've got those three. I would like to add two things. One: there are a number of scientific associations that do not yet have a quality register of which the implant part is a part or a large part. I would like to talk to them about fifteen or sixteen scientific associations: would you not do what your colleagues in cardio and so on have done? I think we can have that conversation. Then we'll find out if there's a good reason to do that or not. That's one. The other is that I think that we should link the information between quality registers on the one hand and National Implants Register on the other hand and quality registers on the other. That's what I'm looking for. Between dream and deed there will be a few practical objections, but I think it is important that this information is made practically accessible along these lines as much as possible. That's what my energy's focused on. I need the scientific associations, the manager of that hotline and the inspection. I'm going to have those conversations and I'm going to inform you about the progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u75	I would like to continue with that. The quality records are from the orthopedics and the cardiologists. So they can trace very well where the patient is and what implant he has, but then something has already gone wrong. The national implant register only records, I mention, model and type of a particular implant, but there is no further information. And at the side effects reporting point, people can report something. I would like to add a few words to what Mrs Ploumen has said. If I buy a cure, even if it's just paracetamol, there's a package leaflet. It says, for example, that one in ten thousand people can get headaches. At that moment I can still think: I'm already in so much pain, I'm trying anyway. But it's about that information that's available. At that level, I would like to hear the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u76	I find such a quality register very important, because a doctor can use that information in the direction of a patient. Based on the information that the doctor knows from the quality register, he can have a good conversation with the patient, not when something has already gone wrong, but before that time. That is why I place so much emphasis on the quality registers. I think it provides useful information for the doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u77	But the question is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u78	I'm glad to hear this, because that's what I asked for in my contribution. At least I'm glad to hear this. But you also like it as a patient if you already have some information with the doctor yourself in advance. I'm still trying to figure out how the Minister thinks he's gonna organize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u79	I look for this by making the information from the adverse reaction reporting point transparent so that the patient can use that information before undergoing treatment. I'm looking for a practical way to use that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u80	But Mrs van den Berg's question is why there is a manual for medicines, but not for implants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u81	Because in the case of medicines, this whole development towards transparency has taken place a number of years ago. We are now specifically working on medical devices. That information's coming up right now. A method has been devised and is already working for medicines, but this has not yet been regulated for medical devices. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u82	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mr. Chairman. I will not list all the initiatives that I consider important to be taken. I mentioned the visibility of the hotline, linking the files and the campaign together deciding for implants. I would like to mention three others, and then I will go to the answer to the questions. I think it is important that research into the risks of implants, wider than breast implants, is done more firmly and more. I asked RIVM, NIVEL, Maastricht University and a few other parties to make a joint research proposal for the use of implants, the risks and their prevention. I am getting that proposal this spring and I will submit it to you. That's four. Five. Since the discussion on breast implants in particular has also been held with my French colleague in the past period, I have agreed with my French colleague to organise a kind of international one-day conference, a good conversation with scientists, doctors and policy makers, including patients' experiences in one way or another in the programme. We'll do that before the summer break. I'll keep you informed of the results. Finally. The Radar television programme has made a checklist for patients who receive implants. I've been looking at it. I think that's a very practical checklist. I'd like to broaden the profile of that checklist. That's why it's now on a government site. On government.nl you can find this checklist. So much for a number of action points that you can expect from me in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to answer questions that have been asked. I shall begin with Mrs Ellemeet's questions. She asked to advise women who want a breast implant for cosmetic reasons to postpone it until there is more clarity about the risks. I wanted to turn it around. Women considering breast implants are already receiving information from their doctor on the risks, including the risk of ALCL. That is the particular disease that was mentioned in the French example. It is therefore a consideration between the patient in consultation with the doctor or the risk outweighs the benefit. If I have more information from France, I will make it available immediately, but I do not have that information at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u84	I am afraid that the Minister is now presenting a slightly too rosy picture, namely that all risks are already known and that women who want a breast implant can already make the choice on the basis of all known risks. However, as the Minister also states in his letter, the problem is that a lot of risks still need to be investigated. That's what my point was about. I think it is right for the Minister to note this and to note that this applies not only to the textured implants, but also to the smooth breast implants, so that we should look at them more broadly. The Minister also states that he wants to intensify that investigation. Very good. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u85	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u86	My question is: is it not wise, precisely because all these risks are not yet sufficiently known, to advise these women to wait for research to clarify those risks if there is no medical need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u87	No, I want to leave this responsibility between doctor and patient. If there's a reason for a woman to choose a certain type of breast implant and not to wait, then I think that should be part of that conversation. As soon as I get information about research, I want to share it with the scientific associations so that they can use it when talking to the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u88	I find it quite a lot to lay the responsibility of doctors and patients if some risks are not yet well known and investigated. If some risks are likely but have not yet been properly investigated, then it is up to the government to give that information to those women, and I do not advocate an obligation, but advice seems very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u89	The difficulty is that there are always risks associated with implants. There are all-time risks associated with implants. My French colleague said: I am giving an opinion. I thought that was a very special situation, so I called her and asked her on the basis of what considerations she gave that advice. She said she's awaiting further information from research. That is why I put it the same way: if I get that additional information, I will share it without delay. But I cannot comment on the probability of the risk at the moment. That is why I think it is important to have a good conversation between the physician and the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u90	Finally, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr President, concluding. This is the trivialization of these risks. Of course there are always risks, but we know that the risks surrounding breast implants are high. That is why the Minister himself quite rightly calls for additional research. Then I think it is appropriate for us, as a government, that this minister as a government should give the advice: these risks are substantial, and we are now doing more research into them, if there is no medical need, Madam President, I would advise you to wait for that intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u92	As I have just said, I have spoken with the Dutch Society for Plastic Surgery. They informed me that they very strongly involved this point of risk weighting in the discussion. This applies to cosmetic, which applies to medical, which applies to textured, which applies to smooth. I don't want to trivialize it, quite the contrary. This is perhaps the heart of the conversation between doctor and patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u93	On this point, some percentages of women with breast prostheses are particularly affected by silicone breast prostheses.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then it's not just that rare form of lymph node complaints, it's also about other complaints. There are alternatives. You can also take other breast prostheses than the silicone breast prostheses. The manufacturer, Allergan, has withdrawn a preparation from the market. Would it not be wise, under the precautionary principle, to say: we are doing silicone prostheses for the time being but not, there are alternatives? Why does the Minister not follow the French example of saying: let us take it off the market for now or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u94	Why I do not follow the French example, I have just said: because there is no further investigation underneath it. If it is, I'll get it, I'll meet with Mrs. Buzyn. Whether a silicone implant or another implant is chosen should be discussed in the conversation between doctors and patients. I think that is important, that is a very important conversation, that must be emphasised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u95	If the one preparation has more side effects and can have even very dangerous side effects compared to other preparations, is it not the responsibility of the government, if the professional group clearly chooses to maintain the silicone option "we have seen the correspondence about this and if the side effects spectrum shows above all that it is silicone prostheses when it comes to those side effects, to take corrective action and yet take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u96	Correct, in the sense of ensuring that these side effects are better reported, yes, the emphasis should be on this. But when it comes to treatment, whether it's cosmetic or medical, that conversation between doctor and patient is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u97	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u98	In conclusion, there are also major financial interests here. It cannot be ruled out that doctors who use prostheses can also have a particular interest in this. That can't be ruled out. Does the Minister also want to take this aspect into account in his deliberations? Isn't it, then, all eyesighted, wise to make a pass on the spot with those silicone prostheses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u99	I have now said seven times that I think that this should be the balance between the doctor and the patient. On the basis of the studies currently available, I see no reason for a pass on the spot. Perhaps the conference I planned in June will provide further information together with the French colleague. If so, it can play a role again. I think I should be open to that. But not right now. I find it too easy to say that we are not doing one implant now, because there is information about side effects. What are the alternatives? Are the alternatives without risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mr. Chairman. Another question from Mrs Ellemeet was about the capacity issue of notified bodies. Mrs Ellemeet's question was: can the Netherlands as a government set up its own body? No, you can't. This is contrary to European rules. I believe that Mr Raemakers has already given the second argument. Imagine if it were allowed, then we haven't collected the expertise yet. We have three notified bodies in the Netherlands and the fourth one is on its way. At the moment, they all have big problems in recruiting and finding sufficient experts and additional expertise. There is a lot of work going on there, but this is not a solution to the problem of capacity. I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Then report incidents. In fact, almost everyone here has talked about that. Incidents shall be reported at the health care provider's inspection and not through the manufacturer. The manufacturer shall report immediately to the inspection in the event of an implant incident in order to allow action to be taken. If the health care provider also reports this at the inspection, then that's fine. That might mean changing the law, but that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u102	A brief question, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u103	Well, a comment. I think this is very good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u104	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u105	This can also be checked whether these manufacturers always report. So this is good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Ellemeet about the clinical trial. That needs to be better and more structured. Can we play a leading role in this as the Netherlands? Yeah, I think we can. I gave a start-up grant to the Health Innovation Initiative Holland, Hii Holland. This is a collaboration between university medical centres and a number of other parties. They can play a role in standardising and structuring good clinical comparative research. So I'm okay with doing that. Hii Holland can do something else. Some smaller parties are currently struggling to get their files in order with a view to the procedure with the notified bodies. Hii Holland can help to organize and streamline that information. I therefore answer Mrs Ellemeet's question in the affirmative. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions from Mr Van Gerven of the SP. His first point was about the soluble stent. The inspection started immediately after the first reports from 2014. The reports showed that there were relatively more thromboses with the use of this stent than with the use of other metal stents. The IGJ then discussed it with the cardiologist's association. They've brought that back into their investigation. In addition, the inspection contacted the manufacturer, who modified the instructions for inserting the stent. Following the exchange of information with other European supervisors, it appeared that there was no need for further intervention because there was still research and because adjustments had been made by the manufacturer. Eventually, the manufacturer withdrew those stents for commercial reasons. That's about the facts. Mr Van Gerven said: now what? Suppose you're a patient with a soluble stent. Shouldn't there be contact, even if you don't have complaints as a patient? I will discuss this point with the scientific association to see if any contact can be made with those patients and whether precautionary action can be taken for those in whom this soluble stent has been placed. That's one. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next question by Mr Van Gerven, about private notified bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr. Van Gerven, I see you want to interrupt. I actually want the Minister to deal with all your questions first. Then you will have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u108	We have chosen private notified bodies in the European model. That has been a deliberate choice. You will see that this regulation, which will enter into force next year, only strengthens those requirements for notified bodies. So that is also the route I want to continue to use. In the last five years, you have also been involved in the development of the European regulation. We are not going to make a turn to another method, by placing the notified bodies, for example, under a ZBO framework law. Then there is the question of whether there is any question of mopping with the crane open with regard to the favour. No, I don't believe that. In the Code of Conduct on Medical Devices, both doctors and medical device suppliers have agreed on the financial relationships they make public in the Transparency Register. Agreements on the disclosure of financial relationships for the whole medical device sector have not been in place for so long. For the first time in the summer of 2018, financial relations over the previous year, 2017, of the entire medical equipment sector were made public in the register. I have informed you that I want to evaluate the Healthcare Transparency Register, and I would like to start by including those experiences on medical devices. Mr. Chairman. On the point of reversing the burden of proof, I would like to say that manufacturers already have a duty to demonstrate that their implant is safe. Under the new European regulation, which I have just mentioned, the requirements for clinical evidence become much stricter for the manufacturer. In addition, the manufacturer must also participate when the device is on the market. That's the post-market surveillance. This includes that manufacturers keep track of the complaints patients have with their implants. So I am not in favour of reversing the burden of proof. At the point of silicone breast implants, I went into it. Mr President, so much for the questions that I had noted from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mr President, I hope you will allow me to deal with a number of points separately. First of all, the soluble stents. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to engage in discussions with the profession in order to identify all patients and to see if additional action is needed. I think that's very important. There was another element. Is the Minister also prepared to call on Abbott, the manufacturer, to make all post-market surveillance data available on the stent? Because that may be relevant to the treatment of patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u111	I'm gonna have to dive in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u112	Maybe you'll come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u113	I will try to get back to that in the second term. That's a good idea. I'm gonna have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u114	And what does the Minister think of the patient association's suggestion to ask the Safety Research Council to take a broad look at this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u115	That's not what I'm here for. I wanted the scientific association to take the lead. It should be given the initiative to keep in touch with the patients concerned. We'll see what that gets us and we'll see from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u116	That is what we differ on. The second point I would like to address is the reversal of the burden of proof. The manufacturer is responsible for the quality, safety and reliability of products. That is not the point of discussion; it is already the point. But it is also about the co-responsibility, or liability, of the doctor. Now it is legally arranged that if a carpenter uses a defective product that leads to damage, that carpenter is responsible. My question to the Minister is: how can we have arranged that the doctor is not responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u117	I understood Mr Van Gerven's question in such a way that it was about the safety of the implant. I think it makes sense that the manufacturer is the appropriate party for that. But if something goes wrong with the doctor's treatment, for example by placing an implant, then of course it is also the doctor's responsibility. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I have told you before, however, that I would like to repeat that calamities must be reported by the caregivers. I believe that the concept of calamity, a legal concept from the Wkkgz, needs to be interpreted in a broad sense, so that it can be reported in an easily accessible way and learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u118	A doctor can act wrong, do a wrong procedure and so on, but it's about whether he's responsible when he's using defective material. The legislation is now such that we have exempted the doctor from liability for this, whereas it does exist, for example, with a carpenter who is employed by a private individual. That's a weird difference, isn't it? That's what I'd like to tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u119	I think that the distinction between the safety of the implant and everything that goes with it and the additional research and the additional responsibilities that the manufacturer will have under the new European regulation is very important. So I don't really want to take that away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u120	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u121	One final point. I had mentioned an example of a doctor who had a contract with AtriCure of up to €50,000. My question to the Minister was whether he thinks that is appropriate in the current legislation and regulations, or whether he does not think that is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u122	This too is such a case position. In the ten minutes you gave me, I didn't have time to find out. I'd like to take that up in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u123	That's good. Then the Minister comes back to that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions raised by the D66 Group. Mr. Raemakers asked: how do you know the implant is safe when introduced? I think I said a lot about that in my introduction. There are rules now. There's a whole bunch of rules that tighten that situation. To be honest, I expect a lot of that. Then the point of the NoBo and the Brexit. It is an exciting situation, in the sense that we are working very hard to transfer aid certificates from the United Kingdom to the Netherlands, but I have also understood from the notified bodies that this will not be possible for all certificates before the end of March. They're coming a long way, but they can't do it for all of them. We have a conversation four times a year with the Dutch notified bodies. It's next week. Then I will ask again about the state of play. That's one. We have a letter to the notified bodies in preparation after this debate so that I can take any further comments which suggest that priority should be given to the high-risk tools if possible. That does not solve the problem as such either, because they have a capacity issue, but it may help to mitigate the risks. Then there was the question of whether I could examine the readiness to report to doctors. Yeah, I want to do that. I think that's a good idea. I don't think it's a good idea to make that an obligation right now. Here too: first, one step and then, based on the results, look at how to proceed. I think I have answered Mr Raemakers' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u125	Thank you for the commitments. I have a question about the notified bodies. It is indeed a capacity problem. Now the situation of the Brexit is getting over it. The Minister has already mentioned that he also wants to spend a lot of time with his French colleague, but can the Minister not examine with France and perhaps with Germany and Belgium whether staff can be more exchanged between notified bodies and between different European countries and better co-operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u126	I do not believe that that will help, because the Brexit issue, if I may put it that way, is true for the whole of the EU. That doesn't help us. What does help us is that one of the great notified bodies, BSI, has now come from England to the Netherlands. That helps, and we have a second big one coming. It is not yet ready with its registration procedure. That will happen during the course of this year. That's Lloyd's. Well, that's the good news. After that, all four of them will have to comply with the stricter obligations in accordance with the new EU directive. So it's really going to be quite a puzzle how they bring that capacity up, but removing expertise from other notified bodies as such doesn't help the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u127	But for my understanding: can people working at a notified body in the Netherlands, via the same notified body, for example, not also work in France or Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u128	Whether they can't, I should check, but I don't think they do. It is currently all hands on deck at the notified bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u129	Then there is a follow-up question about the willingness to report. The Minister says he doesn't want to state yet that an obligation may be possible in the future, but if you tell doctors and healthcare professionals right now that they really need to report that side effect in the interests of patient safety and in the interests of good care and that if they don't, we have to oblige them to do so in the future, tell your healthcare providers how important this is. Then you can always consider whether you're going to do that. So why won't the Minister consider sending that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u130	Because I think that the commitment of healthcare professionals is actually very large here, because they are really intrinsically motivated to do the right thing here and because an obligation would be just the wrong way of working and just the wrong signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u131	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u132	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions asked by Mrs Agema. Mrs Agema's first question was: what did you do to restore supervision after Radar's broadcast? I have just mentioned in my introduction a number of six different measures which I have already taken in addition to European legislation. That is not all in 2020 and 2022, but also here and now. These are practical measures. I think it is important that I report to you on its progress. So I will make a progress report by the summer, and I will tell you what progress has been made. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema's point is that many people have died worldwide as a result of implants and what can be done about them. The most important step I think is the step taken next year with the stricter EU regulation and the launch of EUDAMED, that database at European level. I think both instruments will help. At the same time, of course, it is not the case that all this will work perfectly from day one, but I really expect a lot from that European database. But it is also about those other measures, in particular the stricter supervision of notified bodies and the additional safeguards requested from manufacturers of devices. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema also mentioned the obligation to report adverse reactions to the inspection. I have already dealt with this in Mrs Ellemeet's reply. Then more attention is needed for the pelvic floor mat. What was done with the recommendations at the time? Six centres of expertise have been set up. They treat the complications. I would like to say that pelvic floor mats are still used with restraint and only by highly specialised gynecologists, urogynaecologists. The 2013 recommendations have therefore not gone unnoticed. Then the point of reporting to the health care provider at the inspection. Here too, I have just given the answer to Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u133	Have you dealt with all of Mrs Agema's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u134	I hope so, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u135	Okay. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u136	"Not gone unnoticed" and "basin bottom mats are used reluctantly" I do not think the answer to my question was very concrete. There were three concrete recommendations, namely to investigate the complications, to pay attention to recognising the complications and to refer women with serious complications to a centre of expertise. What has been done specifically with these three recommendations is my question to the Minister. Then I have one more question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u137	Actually, I thought I answered this question. Centres of expertise have been set up. That's more than one. They are located in hospitals in the Netherlands. Women with complications can be treated by specialised urogynaecologists there. In addition, pelvic floor mats are only used with restraint. I would like to ask the professional association whether there is anything to report on the use of pelvic floor mats and the treatment of complications by these specialised doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u138	And you'll inform the Chamber about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u139	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I understand the investigation is already under way. RIVM is doing that research on mats. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u140	I had also asked a question about the contracts the manufacturers conclude with the doctors. I asked you to ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u141	Before anything is forbidden, I think it's important that the facts come on the table. I thought I said the same thing earlier. I would first like to await the evaluation of the Healthcare Transparency Register. On this basis, I will assess how well this transparency register works and what additional measures are needed. I expect to be able to offer that evaluation to your room by the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u142	I think that's really weird. We are debating here on the occasion of a major international investigation and now the Minister says: yes, but I have to look into all this. That investigation was done months ago. That is what we are debating here. The conclusions are really shocking. Manufacturers want doctors to report calamities to the manufacturer first and keep them out of sight. There really is a big veil around the consequences and vulnerabilities of those medical results. I actually want to know from the Minister whether, with the knowledge we already have on the basis of the current information and the research we are discussing here today, he is prepared to ban this kind of sneaky, filthy contracts that seriously violate transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u143	I really need the facts on the table here. The legal ban on patronage, Ms. Agema, knows that..... has entered into force in January 2018. I've promised your chamber that I'll evaluate it after a year. The same applies to the Transparency Register for Healthcare. We already know a little more about one thing than the other. I have to have the facts before I can say that we should ban sister, and that is how we should do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u144	That "no sister" is quite a thing: secret contracts for which doctors get a lot of money and which require problems or incidents with medical implants to be reported to the manufacturer first and not to, for example, an independent institute or inspection. I think that the Minister should have given up all his thoughts on this, because we are having this debate today on the basis of a report that has become public months ago. So I find it really shocking. The Minister's just out of order again. I ask him to get it in order sometime in the future, because this kind of thing puts patients at serious risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u145	I say it to Mrs Ploumen in particular: sneaking around is not the right thing to do. For this reason, there is a lot of attention to the theme of favour. Because the Transparency Register Care is an initiative of the sector itself and we are carrying out the evaluation, I think that the operation of the Transparency Register and the evaluation should be combined. So we can see what the facts are. Sneaky shouldn't be. That is why we create the Transparency Register and evaluate it. I think that's the right route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u146	Just in case. I've just been dived into the law on the prohibition of grace. Sneaky constructions, which Mrs Agema is talking about, are already forbidden by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u147	Of course. The question is again what to define as "sneaky," but first I would like to have the review of the Transparency Register Care to look at what is admissible and what is not admissible. The fact that the world of manufacturers requires knowledge of the world of doctors is as ready for me as a cube. But it shouldn't be sneaky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u148	The Minister agrees with Mrs Agema, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u149	I would like to clarify it, because otherwise the image could continue to exist that all kinds of very rugged constructions would still be allowed today. They're not allowed. The question is what role the Transparency Register plays in this. I understand that the Minister is evaluating this very well, but I have looked at the rules, which contain a few exceptions to the ban on favour, provided that it complies with rules and that it is transparent. Do I understand that you meet the transparency requirement when something is properly registered in the Transparency Register, and that you don't meet it if you don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u150	No, it's not just making it transparent; there's also a legal ban on grace. Sneaky things aren't allowed. We have already laid down that obligation by law since 2018. So secret constructions can't be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u151	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u152	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions raised by the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u153	By Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u154	Yes, by Mrs Van den Berg. Her first question was what the minister will do for patients who already have an implant. I think I've answered that question by now. The scientific associations must lead the way. They must have actual information on the use of implants in their quality registers. That they haven't all, I've argued. Then there is the issue of the German health organisation, which warned against defects while the Dutch inspection did not give a warning. That shouldn't be possible anymore. The inspection has modified its working methods. The clarity on the website of the inspection on safety warnings has improved, so I expect this will no longer occur. Then the question about working towards one central standard quality register. That's not what I'm here for. I would prefer all scientific associations to ask themselves whether they can make such a quality register possible for implants. I think working towards one mandatory standard quality register is just one step too far. Then there is the point that research shows that on the website of the inspection only information is available on emergencies from November 2018. Can the Minister ensure that previously reported security notifications come online and are easier to find? Mr President, I understand that there is information on the website from 2015. The problem is that Mrs van den Berg has a point that is so difficult to access. So accessibility is being worked on, for example by classifying public information in such a way that you can distinguish tools into categories. Then there is the question of why I do not require healthcare institutions to approach patients with unambiguous information if the inspection so requires. Is it true that care institutions now decide for themselves whether and how they approach the patients? Caregivers are required to approach patients if there is anything wrong with the implant. This is part of the obligation to provide good care. Healthcare providers have received unambiguous information from the manufacturer for this purpose. The inspection shall place a safety warning online following the manufacturer. Then there is the point that the international consortium of investigative journalists indicates that the notified bodies can issue safety certificates on unclear grounds. Can the Minister guarantee that the control and authorisation of new medical devices is now being carried out on clear and transparent grounds? Yes, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the new European regulation has really taken an important step, particularly in terms of clarity and transparency. Finally, the question about the medical technology inspection team. Ms Van den Berg stated that capacity was 11.5 FTE. I thought the growth, so the extra, 11.5 FTE would be. Although we would increase capacity tenfold, the inspection always makes a selection of work. That selection starts with risk-driven supervision. For this reason, I think that there is more focus on high-risk tools, and that seems to me to be a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u155	The Minister has just indicated that he thinks it is a step too far to make such a quality register compulsory. We are only talking about the implants that are required to be reported in the National Implant Register. Can the Minister explain this a little further? Just look at the orthopedics. People are traceable, but it also means that one can see very well which implants have a better lifespan. So it can also greatly improve the quality of care. In my view, we have also asked whether the National Implant Register can be linked to the quality registers and the updating point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u156	Mr. Chairman. I thought I had answered that last question in detail in my introduction because I think it is very important that this information is not held up, or in one or the other. So I'm gonna look at those links. Easy to say, difficult to do, Mrs Van den Berg knows that. But that seems to me to be a good step forward. Mrs van den Berg's question was about a standard, a uniform, uniform quality register. I think it would be quite a step forward if scientific associations all asked themselves the question: is such a quality register of implants helpful to our profession? I think it is more important that they ask that question than that I am now asking for the uniform requirement of such a register, because that would perhaps be a bridge too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u157	The reason why I used the word 'uniform', 'undefined' or'standard' is because I know that, on the other hand, hospitals, if there are different systems each time, have huge administrative burdens. That is why I call for this to be dealt with in the same way. In any event, the CDA does not agree with the Minister that it would be non-binding to establish such a register in the context of patient interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u158	I can well imagine Mrs van den Berg's last comment, but I have an example of a professional group, I believe the profession of diabetes doctors, which say: if we have to set up a register for a very single implant, there might be a much more practical method than to create an extensive register. I am in favour of such reasonings by professional groups. That is why I am actually making two steps, where Mrs Van den Berg says: make a uniform quality register right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u159	Yes, because even if there were only one implant for a particular situation, it is also extremely important to see how the development of that implant is going. That also gives new information. And that you can find all patients in distress at the push of a button. If I were to continue, I'd be repeating myself, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u160	I very much agree with the latter, not that you are repeating yourself, but looking for the point of practical solutions, so that you get that information out at the push of a button for a particular profession. Is the quality register the best way to do this? Then it's fine. Is there another way? I am open to this and therefore do not advocate a uniform approach across all professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u161	Brief question, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u162	As far as GroenLinks is concerned, different quality registers are also good if they work well. The Minister wants to get to work on this. He wants to talk about it. Now it is true that we had a technical briefing on this too. Then it appeared that the good example has been one of the few good examples for years. So it takes some extra pressure to really move this. Is the Minister also considering a deadline to state: 'I want to see results within a certain period of time'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u163	I do not think there is one good example, but at least there are four. That helps. But you hear me being a little cautious, because I need the information from those other professions that use implants: why haven't you done that yet, such a quality register, or are you working on it? So I was going to present you with a progress report on the basis of this debate. Then I'm going to tell you about the progress of the summer. So that's a bit different from a deadline, but there's an active attitude coming from me towards the scientific associations to promote this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u164	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u165	Finally, I wanted to come back to the issue of the number of extra FTE, because it says literally: The capacity of the Medical Technology team of the inspection will increase to more than 11.5 FTE. So either it's misspelled in the letter, or the Minister isn't telling us exactly now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u166	Exactly. That's why I was just a little careful, but I thought it was expanding the team by 11.5 fte. So that's a correction to what's in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u167	Then I suggest you move on. I think you have arrived at Mrs Ploumen's question. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u168	Mr. Chairman. The authorisation and control in the hands of manufacturers and notified bodies. The supervision of the notified bodies is too limited. What does the Minister think? I say it a little in my own words. I believe that with the strengthened European regulation, the work of the notified bodies is much more and much more closely monitored. That's one. We mean, as I have just argued, the Ministry has four meetings a year with the inspection and the notified bodies. I think that's very important too. Then I can address the issues we are struggling with, as here in the debate, with the notified bodies, and vice versa. I think it is very important that good contact exists, where everyone has their own responsibilities. That's two. I therefore do not believe that the supervision of notified bodies is too limited. Why does the Minister not follow the advice of the Health Council to place the assessment of the effectiveness and safety of implants and the evaluation of complaints in the hands of the CBG? That's almost a system question. I have chosen to strengthen it from within the European system, and not to make a Dutch exception, if that is possible. Mr. Chairman. In what way can the Minister guarantee that all information that patients need to know is also reported and registered? It is a bit the same point that was asked for just in the event of interruption. Reporting and registering all information seems difficult to me, but on the one hand I try to get the correct information, the practical information for a wide audience, for the patient and the non-patient, on the other hand with an active call to load that Reportpoint Adverse Reactions Implants. Mr. Chairman. Why is there no overall overview of which implant has which patient and what side effect which patient has? I think that EUDAMED is going to give quite a complete picture. EUDAMED has not yet arrived. The National Implant Register anticipates this. That's a voluntary matter. It started loading the LIR with the high-risk implants. I think that's a good choice. Whether it will ever be complete, that can be seen, but I think that with EUDAMED and LIR LIR we will have to come to EUDAMED, to put it in jargon, a whole end. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Ploumen's question on Allergan. How many women have these implants? Why hasn't the CE marking been extended? We don't know exactly how many women we're talking about. I cannot give you an actual answer to that. The CE marking was not renewed because the notified body considered that the information needed to assess the compliance of the implants was missing from the file. That's for the manufacturer to fix first. Those were the questions of Mrs Ploumen that I had noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u169	I have a number of supplementary questions. First of all, I would like to refer to the ban on grace. The Minister spoke of this earlier. Follow the Money has uncovered a rather long list of relationships between manufacturers and specialists. Is the Minister prepared to check, per case mentioned, whether or not the law has been complied with? It is only then that supervision, and also the annoyance of the Minister, gets teeth. He's in a position to do that. Does he want to inform the Chamber of what measures he's taking? Maybe he can even file a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u170	I would also like to get the facts straight; I have said this before. We've announced an evaluation. That evaluation will come around the summer. I think that is the right time to see where the law has been observed and where it has not been. Where one does not comply with the law, action is taken by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u171	Can I have a deadline for that? Summer's a long time sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u172	Before the end of the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u173	What summer, what year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u174	This summer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u175	Summer 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u176	Summer 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u177	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll sign up for the arrangement of that moment... Then those notified bodies and the capacity shortage. Look, I think it's a wrong decision to put everything in the hands of those notified bodies. We are giving democratic control to a profit-making company which also has a capacity shortage. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that all checks that need to be carried out are carried out and that we get a report on them? It all needs to be insightful for patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u178	We are not going to solve the capacity issue of the notified bodies here, but we are talking to those notified bodies four times a year. That means I think I have them pretty close. And that's important to me. Next week there will be another conversation, where I will also sit at the table myself. I want them to know that we think it is important that products are placed on the market safely and that we stick to the tightening of rules. In addition, I have indicated that we want to help smaller parties on the market through that Holland Innovative (HI) to ensure that the files end up with those notified bodies in a good and practical way. Smaller manufacturers should not have to wait too long for the application for certification. That helps a little bit, too. The notified bodies are also under supervision. In the past, clues have been given. That space is also there for the future. If one of the notified bodies receives new staff or attracts new customers, he must first report to us. Some notified bodies cannot issue certificates for all tools. Those categories are known. That is something that must be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u179	The picture is that this minister is contracting out the duty of care for patients with implants. There are the notified bodies. We've got these medical associations that can do or leave anything. Doesn't the Minister feel like... No, let me rephrase. It makes me very uncomfortable, especially to all those patients. Wouldn't the Minister, after all he's heard now and looking at everything, consider taking control much tighter? We can do that with a few simple interventions and we can do that before the end of this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u180	Mr. Chairman. That system of notified bodies is not a Dutch system, it is a European system. A series of Cabinets have been working on this over the past five, six, seven years, including by the PvdA Group. We have chosen this method. What I am committed to is that we are increasingly assessing those notified bodies and manufacturers in a better, stronger and stricter manner on the basis of the strengthened European regulation. I think that's the route we should go. At the beginning of my speech, I said in detail what extra will be added and what additional requirements we are going to impose on those notified bodies and on the manufacturers. I think that's the right way to go. In addition, I am looking for Dutch measures. They are mainly on the side of the Meldpunt Undesirable effects Implants and the National Implant Register.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u181	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u182	Look, we have had to observe, looking at the whole of Europe, that the lobby of manufacturers has finally been on the winning side. That is a bitter conclusion, I think, because it could have been better. In the Netherlands, the Minister can give an indication to associations of doctors to set up a register according to a format, as Mrs Van den Berg asked. Wouldn't he consider that? We are insisting on this quite collectively and massively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u183	I have already said that I would like to enter into the discussion with the scientific associations in order to ask why they have not done so and whether they do not yet have a quality register of implants. That's really on the side of the scientific associations. That's Dutch. We can do that ourselves, and I will. The other is about the notified bodies. That is a European system that we have built together in Europe. I think those rules should be more precise. Those rules were sharper. They're starting next year. So it's two separate topics. We've been working on the one thing in the last few years. For the rest, as the Netherlands, we can still take measures ourselves. I believe that these measures should be taken, and I will take them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u184	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u185	Mr President, so much for Mrs Ploumen's questions. That leaves me with the questions of the VVD Group, Mr Rutte. As far as the information campaign is concerned, which increases the awareness of the Adverse Reactions Communication Point, I have gone into it. The results are not yet available. Then there is the issue of the Transparency Register and Follow the Money. Can you confirm that situations as described by Follow the Money should no longer occur because of the increased requirements of the Transparency Register? Yes, I believe that such situations should not be allowed to happen anymore. Do you expect the current agreements to be sufficient? This is where I build in the caution that I have just built in. I want to assess, on the basis of the evaluation that we get by the summer, by the end of the summer, whether there are sufficient agreements or whether more needs to be done. Mr. Chairman. How can I act when a manufacturer, supplier or doctor fails to comply with the rules? That was still about the favor. To the extent that the offences are covered by the legal prohibition of favour, the inspection shall have the power to act against them. The inspection may impose a fine. The inspection may take place both against the supplier of the medical device and against the doctor who has infringed the ban on grace. The contracts are subject to the prohibition of grace in the Medical Devices Act only if they relate to services provided after 1 January 2018, the effective date of that legal prohibition. But we can act practically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u186	Have you answered all of Mr Rutte's questions? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u187	One more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u188	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u189	There is a case that Mr Van Gerven has also spoken about. Now I have the answer. This is a case of a contract from a specialist and a manufacturer of €50,000. Manufacturer's influence on doctors should not take effect as from 1 January 2018. Can the Minister confirm this? Yes, I can. For this reason, there is a legal ban on grace that has been applicable to all medical devices since 1 January 2018. The inspection shall ensure that this is done. The choice of a medical device should be based on health interests and not on commercial interests of a medical device supplier. In addition, there is a code of conduct on medical devices, which lays down rules on financial relations between doctors and suppliers of medical devices. They're gonna be in that Transparency Register. I've told you that you're getting an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u190	The fact that we look closely at the ban on favour and the interaction with the transparency register is considered important by many parties here. In my view, the underlying issue is also whether or not to register something in the transparency register in connection with the ban on favour is actually already a legal obligation or not. Is that a voluntary register where you may or may not register something when it suits you? Or is it different? There's a ban on grace. Is it not in some cases a reason to say: wait a minute, that is contrary to that law? It does not need to be answered immediately, but I would very much like that to be answered in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u191	I will add that to the promise I will make before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u192	The progress report. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u193	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u194	Yes. Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Many people benefit from medical implants, but unfortunately it still happens enough that people experience a lot of misery from implants. That's what we've been able to see in the Radaruit shipment. Those terrible situations are then marked or notified as "incident," because that would not be so bad. I am very pleased that the Minister has promised that caregivers should also report incidents to the inspection. That is essential to ensure proper supervision of medical implants, so thank you very much for that. Mr President, I have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many tens of thousands of complaints from women worldwide about side effects in breast implants;]] [[noting that there are still many risks with regard to textured and smooth breast implants requiring further examination;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Medical Care is holding a conference in the first half of this year on the side effects of breast implants and on the promotion of risk research;]] [[calls on the Government to give advice to women who wish to undergo breast implants for cosmetic reasons in order to postpone this procedure until research has given a better understanding of the risks of breast implants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more stringent requirements are laid down for clinical trials for the admission of implants to the market;]] [[Whereas the MDR does not specify this requirement of enhanced clinical trials;]] [[Calls on the Government to take the lead in further developing guidelines for appropriate clinical trials in the Netherlands for the type of implants to be determined further with the field;]] [[and invites the government to inform the Chamber about this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22805-68]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22805-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u196	Mr. Chairman. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas manufacturer Allergan has discontinued sales of textured breast implants throughout the EU market due to the increased risk of BIA-ALCL;]] [[Whereas the US Food and Drug Administration is also calling for increased risk of cancer (ALCL) with smooth implants;]] [[calls on the Minister to ban all silicone breast implants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32805-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u197	My second motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that within the current system, profit-making bodies are responsible for granting market access to medical implants and that influence on these notified bodies cannot be excluded by manufacturers;]] [[Whereas, within the current procedure, notified bodies should ensure that manufacturers have a sufficiently substantiated plan for post-market surveillance;]] [[Notes that the formation of an independent and non-commercial College Review Implants similar to the College Review Medicines should be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32805-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u198	And the last one: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a legal ban on favours to prevent undue influence by industry, but that exceptions undermine the ban because doctors are allowed to promote products;]] [[whereas relationships between healthcare providers and manufacturers should be included in the Transparency Register for Care, but some doctors should sign a confidentiality clause;]] [[Whereas the "cost allowance" received by some doctors for their consultancy activities is sometimes well above the maximum allowed;]] [[noting that the industry's self-regulation has failed through the Code of Conduct on Medical Devices as doctors are not aware of the Code of Conduct and ignore the rules;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the exceptions to the ban on courtesy in order to minimise the links between medical professionals and industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32805-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u199	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the notified bodies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that notified bodies are given a greater role in the market authorisation of medical devices in the Medical Devices Act and in the supervision of those devices after they have been admitted to the market;]] [[Whereas in the combination of the greater role of notified bodies in the Medical Devices Act and the shortage of technically skilled people in a tight labour market, there is a risk that notified bodies will face capacity problems;]] [[noting that the IGJ conducts quarterly interviews with the Dutch notified bodies and that these talks address all the topics relevant to the proper performance of the task of the notified bodies;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor closely the capacity of notified bodies in the Netherlands and to encourage European cooperation between notified bodies wherever possible, so that it is certain that notified bodies will continue to be adequately equipped to monitor medical devices;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the Chamber twice a year, or more often if appropriate, of the results of the IGJ's discussions with notified bodies on the performance of their tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32805-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u200	Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion on the side effects, because I was very satisfied with the Minister's reply that caregivers are intrinsically motivated. We are therefore happy to await developments on that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u201	Thank you. I have the impression that we are not only filing too many motions, but that they are also getting longer and longer. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u202	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas orthopedics and cardiology have a quality record linking patient information and information on implants so that it is directly traceable which patient has which implant and when and by whom it has been inserted, and the LROI is willing not to make its system available to other associations;]] [[Whereas these registrations have led to fewer revisions, savings in healthcare costs and better quality of care;]] [[Whereas the national reporting point for adverse reactions is not yet linked to these quality records;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a link between registrations of the adverse reaction reporting point and quality records;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with health insurers and scientific associations in order to establish quality registers for all implants in the inclusion list, if possible in accordance with one standard for 2020;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inspection did not list on its website all risks and possible side effects of medical devices and implants prior to November 2018;]] [[Whereas this does not give patients and doctors the right information;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the inspection places on the website, as soon as possible, all known reports of risks and any adverse reactions on the website in an accessible manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr van den Berg, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32805-74]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32805-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u203	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and two questions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that after eight to ten years, 14% to 27% of breast reconstruction patients have a ruptured prosthesis;]] [[Whereas neither women nor their doctors know exactly which implant has been used and what the risks are;]] [[Whereas this may cause great anxiety and uncertainty for women with breast implants;]] [[Considers that there is a medical need for these women to remove breast implants;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate for the removal of breast implants for women who wish to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32805-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u204	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask a brief question about the evaluation of the Transparency Register. Would the Minister like to send us that evaluation before the summer recess? 'Cause if it's gonna be after that, it's gonna be Christmas before you know it before we can do anything and we're really running out of time. Then there's my second question. I would like all the data we talked about to be made available at the press of a button. It is good that the Minister talks with the scientific association, but that is not enough. It would be nice if he could make a commitment as to my wish and mention a moment when all information is available to all doctors and all patients at the push of a button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u205	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u206	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u207	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to walk past the various motions that have been tabled. The motion in part No. 68 calls on the Government to give advice to women who wish to undergo breast implants for cosmetic reasons to postpone this procedure until research has given a better understanding of the risks of such implants. I advise against this motion. I argued in the first place that I think it is important to have that conversation between doctor and patient. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 69 calls on the government to take the lead in the Netherlands in further developing guidelines for appropriate clinical research for types of implants to be determined further with the field, and to inform the Chamber thereof before the summer. This motion will be judged by Chamber. I'm fine with that. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 70 calls for a ban on all silicone breast implants. I'm not for that. I advise against this motion. There are also reasons why women still want to have such breast implants placed. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 71, I advise. It states that the formation of an independent and non-commercial college assessment implants, similar to the CBG, should be achieved. That does not fit in with the European system, and that is the route we have taken. The motion in part No. 72 calls on the government to remove the exceptions to the ban on courtesy in order to minimise the links between medical professionals and industry. I advise against this motion. The issue of favour is always about preventing improper influence. At the same time, it is also necessary that there are contacts between suppliers and doctors for the development and use of new medical devices. If the exception to the ban were lifted, any contact between suppliers and doctors would become impossible. I think that's an undesirable situation. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 73 calls on the Government to monitor closely the capacity of notified bodies in the Netherlands, and so on, and invites the Government to inform the Chamber twice a year, or more frequently, of the results of the IGJ's discussions with notified bodies on the performance of their tasks. I think that's fine. These talks are well in line with the discussions we have four times a year. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 74 calls on the Government to ensure that there is a link between registrations of the adverse reaction reporting point and quality registrations. That is easy, because I have just promised it in the debate. I found the second part of the operative part more complicated. The motion calls on the government to engage with health insurers and scientific associations to set up quality registers for all implants in the inclusion list, if possible in accordance with one standard and by 2020. This is whether it should apply to all scientific associations that have a relationship with the inclusion list. That's hard for me. I would prefer you to allow me to speak to those scientific associations first, to inform you about this and to continue this motion until then. That would be my proposal to hold the motion. Then the motion to part No. 75. The Chamber, considering that patients and doctors do not have the right information, asks the Government to ensure that the inspection is made as soon as possible to place all known reports of risks and adverse reactions on the website in an accessible manner. I think all the reports are a bit much. It is not just about reporting reports of risks and side effects; what is always needed is an explanation from experts. Reporting all information is unfeasible according to the inspection. It's about getting the right risks out. The reporting of risks is too little if no explanation can be added. That's not in this motion. That's why I'm betraying her. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motion in part No. 76, before I get to two more questions from Mrs Ploumen. This motion calls on the government to compensate for the removal of breast implants for women who wish to do so. Only medically necessary care will be reimbursed. If there is a medical need, the removal of the implants will in principle be chosen. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Then two more questions have been asked to me. One question concerns the evaluation of the transparency register: can it do so before the summer recess? The evaluation has been contracted out with a duration of four months. That term shall start in April. That is April, May, June and July. So that's gonna be in the summer. As far as I'm concerned, it'll be in the summer recess. That's what I'm gonna make myself strong for. And then the "one push the button" principle. In my first term, I have argued in detail that, if I give you my word, I do not see that happening very quickly at this time. I have a lot of conversations to do that. I would also like to make that information transparent and accessible, but I do not think I can really answer the question of 'one push of a button' and put a date on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u208	A brief response or question from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u209	Yeah, about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u210	The motion in part No. 76.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u211	Yes. A quarter of the women appear to have a ruptured prosthesis after eight or ten years. That's a really amazing number. The leaking of an implant should in itself bring with it a medical necessity? Because then silicone leaks into your body. The Minister has spoken to the women and has been able to read the data. Wouldn't he have to share that notion of "medical necessity"? What other medicine would it be acceptable that after eight years a quarter of people get complaints and that this medicine does something that it shouldn't? Then we'd be standing here rightfully enraged. So why doesn't that happen now for these women?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u212	The criterion is "medical necessity." I'd like to stick to that, too. The operative part of the motion is different, namely compensation for women who wish to do so. I want to stick to that criterion of "medical necessity." That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u213	Good. Then the motion will just be put to the vote, I guess. Thank you. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-5.u214	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs. After the suspension, we'll vote first. Then there will be the order of business and then there will be another debate.
