ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the attacks in Sri Lanka. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I would also like to welcome the Ambassador of Sri Lanka, Mr Adam Sadiq. He's in the President's Lodge. You're very welcome. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand, if possible. First Easter Day, the day when Christians celebrate the resurrection, celebrate that life is stronger than death, and that love lasts longer than hate. The day when the Pope traditionally blesses the city and the world. The day when thousands of Christians attend Easter Mass in Sri Lanka, or tourists in their hotel enjoy the Easter Buffet. And just on this day, an Islamic terrorist group has sown death and destruction. Around 6.30 p.m., the first reports of a wave of attacks in Sri Lanka came in the Netherlands. Three churches and three hotels were targeted by suicide bombs. The perpetrators deliberately chose Christian targets and places where Western tourists come together. This cowardly act of terror demanded the lives of at least 321 people, including three Dutch: two women and a 12-year-old girl. Over 500 people were injured. Whole families are torn apart. Just out of nowhere, celebrating the new life, or enjoying a holiday in beautiful Sri Lanka. We saw the havoc in St. Sebastian's Church and a statue of Jesus, spattered with blood; the jumped windows at the Shangri-La Hotel. Large groups of people, outside the hospitals, waiting, between hope and despair, for news about their relatives and loved ones. The people in Sri Lanka are still anxious, insecure and angry. For many inhabitants, the attacks bring up old, painful memories, of violence against ethnic and religious groups. "After thirty years of civil war, our people now live in harmony and peace," said the Bishop of Colombo. "They have worked very hard to rebuild their lives." Now they are once again immersed in mourning. The pain is immense. We wish the people of Sri Lanka to find the resilience to rise again; to show once again that mutual solidarity is stronger than terror and violence. In our minds and hearts we are among the victims, wounded and next of kin; the people of Sri Lanka, but also the tourists who have been affected. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. While people all over the world celebrated the Easter feast, the feast of new life and the victory over death, Sri Lanka was shocked by a series of repulsive attacks. Hundreds of innocent people died, hundreds more were injured, many of whom are still fighting for their lives. The images and eyewitness accounts are so penetrating that they are hard to comprehend. And the scale of these attacks, plus the tight and planned organization of these crimes, only add to our horror. It was a horror scenario performed with great precision. Your heart and your mind stand still when you let that thought work on you. So much hatred against people who merely confess their faith in peace; so much hatred against people who simply celebrated vacation with their loved ones. For an act of so much hatred, no justification is conceivable. It is deeply sad that among the victims, as far as we know, are three people of Dutch nationality, a 54-year-old woman who was with her family in Sri Lanka, and a 48-year-old mother and her daughter, a 12-year-old child. It is heartbreaking that they have suddenly been ripped away from life; away from their loved ones and away from a future that will never be for them again. We must hope that the perpetrators and organisations behind these attacks do not escape their punishment. After the attacks, powerful signals have been sent out from all parts of the world which, at the core, mean that violence can never gain from peacefulness, extremism never from freedom and hatred of humanity. The Netherlands stands side by side with everyone who carries that out. We are ready to help if necessary, and we are grieving with everyone involved in these horrible attacks. Our hearts and minds are with the victims, the wounded and their families.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you. Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
