ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	We have had a number of very interesting and relevant debates this morning. We've been running out of time, too. I am going to speak to anyone who wants to speak in this debate, provided that everyone is limited in length. The debate concerns the report of the General Consultation on Integration and Integration held on 20 February. I should first like to give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. We requested this VAO because we're almost at the Brexit. If it becomes a no deal, all Brits who come here after March 29th are third-country nationals and are therefore obliged to settle if they move to the Netherlands. It is important to know quickly what regime these British are under and whether we will immediately enforce the obligation of integration for all the British who come here for an indefinite period of time. The Netherlands is one of the few countries in the world that imposes an obligation of integration not only on people who want to acquire Dutch nationality but also on people who come here only to work for a longer period of time. This may put us at a disadvantage if British companies consider moving to the Netherlands and bringing employees with us. It would be foolish to shoot ourselves in the brexitchaos foot. The minister would find out which regime is in place. It's March already. So I hope he'll be able to clarify things by now. Another group are British family migrants who come to a no deal and maybe even flee and people who want to settle down in the Netherlands immediately. If they are immediately subject to integration, that is our question. For here too we depart from some other countries. Will the Minister undertake, after 29 March, to monitor for this group at least what role the obligation of integration plays in decisions taken by companies about their country of establishment after the Brexit? Finally, the AO also mentioned parents of EU citizens who, in accordance with the Chavez-Vilchez judgment, should have a right of residence in the Netherlands because parents of children who are legally resident here cannot be expelled. The Minister is currently examining, on the basis of the D66 proposal and the CDA's proposal for Turkish newcomers, whether the new integration system makes it possible to assess individually whether an obligation of integration can be imposed. We think it would be a good idea if Chavez-Vilchez were to do the same and the Minister took this into account in that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Annual Report on Integration published by the CBS and SCP focuses on education, work, income, health and crime;]] [[whereas most Dutch people with a migration background have been part of our country for many generations;]] [[Whereas education, employment, income, health and crime are important issues for all Dutch people;]] [[believes that integration is primarily about root shooting, citizenship, mixing and embracing Dutch citizenship;]] [[calls on the Government to publish the Annual Report on Integration under the heading "Year Report on the Social State of the Netherlands with a Migration Background,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-247]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	You have a minute and 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas citizens undergoing MBO-1 level training must successfully complete the career and citizenship component;]] [[noting that the part of career and citizenship is identical in substance to the mandatory part of the integration course Knowledge Dutch Society;]] [[noting that citizens undergoing MBO level 1 training have already chosen a discipline and career guidance is part of career and citizenship;]] [[noting that this is, together, identical to the integration orientation on the Dutch labour market;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of citizens to complete integration as soon as possible so that they can participate in society;]] [[Whereas DUO does not benefit from re-doing and checking the honking parts already completed by citizens elsewhere;]] [[calls on the government to exempt citizens who successfully complete a mbo-1 level trajectory from the KNM and ONA components in the integration examination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-248]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a growing group of citizens has used the maximum loan amount but has not yet complied with the obligation to enter;]] [[Whereas many of these citizens suffer from fraudulent language schools and shortcomings in the current integration system;]] [[Whereas the new integration system includes the so-called "Z-route" in which municipalities will provide tailor-made services to vulnerable citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether these citizens can already use the Z-route,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-249]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	I have three seconds left, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to use it to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because we cannot afford to have the children of newcomers, and certainly of citizens, with a language disadvantage on the sidelines of society for the rest of their lives, the VVD wants an obligation for citizens to send their children to pre-school. That's why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that more than half of the children who are behind school have a migration background;]] [[noting that young children with an indication of pre-school education are not always sent there by their parents for a variety of reasons;]] [[Whereas delays, including language disadvantages, are difficult to catch up with and pose an increased risk of a future on the sidelines of society;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how the new integration system for citizens could include the obligation to allow their children to attend pre-school care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32824-250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. For the rest, we talked in the AO about something that the VVD sees as a thorn, namely groups of people who do not have to burgeon in the Netherlands, while that does not make sense. D66 and CDA have indeed previously called attention to the group of Turkish newcomers, which the VVD also believes should be introduced. We ourselves proposed in the AO to see if there could be an obligation of integration for the people who are under the Chavez-Vilchez arrest. I would actually like to ask the Minister if he can even do a broad inventory, because there are other groups, such as EU citizens in the Netherlands, who want to bring their partner to the Netherlands. Suppose you're from France, you live in the Netherlands because of your work and you want to get a partner from Brazil, that partner is not required to become a citizen, whereas that is true for a Brazilian partner of a Dutchman. Actually, that's crazy. For example, there may be other situations that are undesirable. There will be a new integration system with more customization. So would the Minister consider a broad inventory and would he like to inform the Chamber about this before the summer? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A sickening doll and slogan last Sunday at a mosque in The Hague, placed by Pegida. On the other hand on De Dokwerker antisemitic slogans by ADO-hooligans. That says something about the tensions in the country: there is growing anti-Semitism, but also violence against peaceful Muslims. That is something we must fight at all times as politics and we must express our opinion on. We have also had a debate on this with the Minister in the last AO, and I have also called on the Minister to do so. He is not only the Minister of Integration, but also the Minister of Society and Integration. This includes a minister who dares actively to interfere in that debate. I know that the Minister disagrees with me on this, but I call once again on him to do so, because that is what is needed for all people in the Netherlands. They also expect the government and the minister to dare to make themselves binding and normative. So that's my appeal to this minister. Finally, Mr President, a remark of a more personal nature. We often have strong discussions in this committee when it comes to integration and integration. That is fine, because there are substantial differences of substance between the parties. We should do that, too. But where I'm talking about the red line, it's when it's really focused on the person. We have also seen a clash between Mr Özdil and Mr Kuzu. That went for the person, and then I see a video of DENK, directed purely at Mr Özdil and in his background. I really think that this is a red line, which we, as representatives of the people, should guard. We have the right to debate the substance of the matter firmly; it must be about the ball. We can debate that, but we can't touch people personally, because then we get them into their personal lives and then we hit their families. That applies to Mr Özdil, but that also applies to Mr De Graaf of the PVV. As far as I am concerned, that is a red line, and I hope we will not see it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have heard the word "logic" in one of the previous contributions. I'm gonna help the room a little bit. I will make haste: three motions, dripping with logic, in one minute and 51 seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that no one who has not succeeded in the integration process within the time allowed, no non-citizen or even no citizen frauder has been deported from our country;]] [[Whereas people who do not comply with the applicable requirements of integration or fraud or refuse to enter citizens have no business in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to deport citizens, non-citizens and citizen fraudsters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	Next, the judgment in Chávez-Vílchez. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the judgment in Chávez-Vílchez of the EU Court of Justice entitles people from countries not members of the European Union and having a minor child in our country to a derived right of residence and no longer to citizens;]] [[Whereas this leads to a perverse incentive to come to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to respect the EU Court of Justice for all those who do not have to take up citizenship as a result of the judgment in Chávez-Vílchez, and to include them in the duty of integration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	And then the last one, Mr. Chairman. That should work in 50 seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the announced discare policy on integration and integration will lead to a draining effect on migration to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the refusal to enforce the existing law has led to the draft of the upcoming hammock law;]] [[calls on the Government to stop preparing for the disastrous new hammock law on integration and to close the borders instead for all asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries and to maintain the old law of integration strictly for the rest of the group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Dutch people are ready to jump through the hoop of the concept of "integration" day in, day out of their best;]] [[Whereas the term "integration" is discriminatory because it separates Dutch people on the basis of their origin;]] [[calls on the Government to end the term "integration" and to start promoting mutual acceptance and shared citizenship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the further integration programme in the labour market should lead to tackling the backwardness of Dutch people with a migrant background in the labour market;]] [[noting that Dutch people with a migration background lose their jobs one and a half times more often than Dutch people without a migration background;]] [[noting that the likelihood of an invitation to a job interview is 50% lower with a Moroccan-sounding surname;]] [[Whereas a scale of EUR 3 million per year is not sufficient to address these challenges;]] [[calls on the government to set up a more effective programme by starting to increase the amount reserved to EUR 30 million per year by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-254]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	I have a question about the connection between Mr Kuzu's two motions. On the one hand, he says: we should stop with the term "integration"; there is no problem. On the other hand... I can see him watching. At least I heard him say this morning that there is not really a problem of integration, that integration has been successful and that we have to cut the term because it would be stigmatizing. On the other hand, he is asking for more money for the further integration programme in the labour market. Apparently there is still work to be done. I've said that to him before. We see that, unfortunately, the third generation is doing worse on the labour market than the second generation. So is there or isn't there a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	DENK's position on integration is clear. I will try to explain it again and I hope Mrs Becker will finally get it instead of bringing in parts of the DENK story. Integration is important in terms of people coming here. They must learn the language, they must have a chance in the labour market, they must know the rules of the Constitution. But then you're talking about a group of people who've lived here for generations. They are suffering from delays in education, delays in the labour market, delays in placements. That is exactly what DENK's first motion is asking for: that we increase mutual acceptance. That's one. The second point. This is what the government is calling the programme that has been launched: further integration into the labour market. That's what the program's called. I can't help it either. If it had been up to me, we would have called the "further approach to mutual acceptance in the labour market."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	Finally, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	I heard Mr Kuzu say in his first motion that we should cut the term 'integration'. Now he says it's about generations who've lived here for a long time. But does he agree with the VVD that there are also people, including in the Turkish community, in which there is indeed a problem of integration, even if they have lived here their whole lives? Figures show, for example, that a quarter of people with a Turkish background say that they do not feel like a Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	Yes. The point is that this problem is caused by a Prime Minister of the VVD House, who tells those people to pick up. The problem is that there are increasingly politicians pushing these people away from Dutch society. Instead of putting these people apart, going into boxes, going into boxes, DENK says: pull those people in; at least let them feel that they are part of society and do not use the double measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mrs. Becker, you weren't addressed in person. A very brief remark, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To blame the Prime Minister for the fact that people stand with their backs to Dutch society and face Ankara really goes too far. The Prime Minister said at the time about young people who made camera people impossible to work and thus affected Dutch freedom: what are you looking for here if you are apparently so oriented towards something other than the Netherlands? And that is indeed a problem that is also being stirred up from Turkey. We recently had a debate on the undesirable influence from Turkey. I hope that DENK will also take part in all the measures that we propose from this house to counter this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	The point is that the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of all Dutch people, including young people born here, who have been raised here, who unfortunately feel insufficient in this society. They must be embraced instead of being pushed away by politics. The Prime Minister, in particular, has a very important role to play in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr Kuzu says: "Stop the term "integration" because it appeals to people in their background. But I think Mr Kuzu is the champion in addressing people in their background by saying that Turkish-Dutch candidates for municipal councils should speak out, saying that they cannot stand by, by making movies on the assembly line. Recently there was a film with very sinister sounds and music from colleagues around it, purely and only because of their Turkish-Dutch background. If he tabled this motion, my question would be to Mr Kuzu: can you promise here that you will never again address Dutch-Turkish parliamentarians or parliamentarians with any background to their origins?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	As I mentioned earlier in the debate, we have not done so since the 2017 elections. I have indeed seen a video on the Denk site about Mr Özdil. He is addressed in his background as spokesperson integration of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	We can, of course, deny it, but last year Mr Kuzu said that Turkish-Dutch parliamentarians and candidates for municipal councils should vote on a motion on the Armenian genocide. On En Son Haber's website five Dutch-Turkish parliamentarians appeared in an article entitled that these five Turks betrayed the motherland. Not a word of condemnation from Mr Kuzu! It led to a stream of intimidations and threats. And then by putting those same people in the corner again by making movies with all the dark noises around them, by doing so because of their origins, you're making exactly the same mistake that you say we shouldn't all do. So again the question: will you promise that you will never again address Dutch-Turkish parliamentarians of any origin on their origins and put videos about them on your website?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. There are indeed a number of links here that are simply not in line with reality. One, where it's about the call I made last year. I said that candidates should be honest about their views in the run-up to the municipal elections. Two, I think we've talked about this extensively in the last two weeks. I do not know what stone Mr Paternotte has lived under. It is about the fact that I have clearly indicated that we have not done so. Nor can I help the fact that there are media worldwide, Turkish media or other media, who follow the debate and then make articles about it. I indicated, even last week or two weeks ago during the debate: I think it is terrible what happened to colleagues. I'm sorry about what happened to those colleagues. But we shouldn't hang the image that I'm responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	We are going to interrupt in two, so I should like to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, who also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	It was said that I would have lived under a stone, so I thought: let me just point out that Mr Kuzu... A few weeks ago, we had a debate with your group chairman, Mr Azarkan. He said: I am not going to defend Mr Kuzu's words, you should ask him that. I agree with Minister Koolmees that all Members of Parliament should be free to do their work. So if you say 'I am very sorry about what happened to them', can you say what you think about the attack by these Turkish newspapers on these parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	As I have just said, I am sorry about what has happened to our colleagues. And I would have expected the same speed and conviction from the other colleagues here in the Chamber when it comes to members of the Denk Chamber, who are openly threatened with death, who are constantly facing numerous threats. I don't know if you're following Twitter right now. On the occasion of the various fake news you can see that the weather is flowing with dredging. And I see that no one is expressing their opinion on this; none of our colleagues, again nothing today. That's just a hypocrite. I'll keep repeating it. I'm really sorry about that. It's just one-sided and I really don't think it's a testimonial of quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr Jasper van Dijk has another question about your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. Death threats are always wrong; on this one. I would like to continue with the interrupting debate with Mrs Becker. That was about a motion, because when Mrs Becker asked how you look at people with Turkish backgrounds who turn away from Dutch society, you said: 'Yes, the Prime Minister should not have said 'pleasure'.' Nor were they my words, I say to Mr Kuzu, what the Prime Minister said there. But doesn't it apply in this case: "Where two fights, have two blames"? Is Mr Kuzu prepared to acknowledge that there are also people with a Turkish background who are very focused on Turkish politics and Turkish nationality and much less on Dutch identity? Does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr. Chairman. The position of DENK is that we really need to work very hard on the common identity of all of us, of 17 million inhabitants of the Netherlands. That is also the citizenship of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. And the story of DENK is also very clear that we have to embrace each other as a Dutchman. That we shouldn't put people in boxes, that we shouldn't put people in boxes, that we shouldn't constantly address them based on their ethnic background and religion. I have also said enough in debates on integration that this is the trend of the last 20 years. We've had the so-called Moroccan problem here in the Chamber. We talked about 400 people waving flags on the Erasmus Bridge. Well, 399.400 people were at home, we're not talking about that. We're talking about sharia neighborhoods. We are talking about all kinds of things and in the meantime I see that there is a tendency for people with a migration background who do not feel connected to the Netherlands. So it's very easy to shout, "These people don't feel like part of society, they turn away from society." We are trying to look at what is causing this and not the result. Let us tackle the cause and then, in my view, we will come a step further in this whole discussion. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. One motion is about integration policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities have a greater role to play in integration policy, which risks creating differences between municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to include national quality requirements in the new integration policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	My second motion concerns the housing of migrant workers. On that point, there is a worrying development. I have also taken this into account in the debate. You sometimes see 12 to 16 people in one house. You can see concentration of migrant workers in so-called Polish hotels, which results in segregation. And you see exploitation by an undesirable dependence on the landlord. Firstly, I would ask the Minister whether he is prepared to give access to the rights of migrant workers with regard to housing. I'd like a response. The motion is about that, too. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that migrant workers should be integrated as far as possible into Dutch society, including in the area of housing;]] [[Whereas many employers and temporary employment agencies are also landlords of migrant workers, which often leads to isolated and segregated housing ("Polenhotels") as well as an undesirable dependency relationship;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to disconnect the link between employer and landlord,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22824-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your questions. My third VAO in a row. This is the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	For that, my compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thank you. I try to do it briefly, but it's complicated issues that I still need some time for occasionally. First, a general introduction. In the direction of Mr Gijs van Dijk the following. We have had a little debate in the AO on normative statements and on the importance of highlighting living together, which I very much agree with. I indicated at that time that I also think that we in the Netherlands often seek polarisation in the public debate. As Minister of Integration, I am trying to find a way to do this that is normative if it is necessary, which is clear, where the boundaries are guarded, but also to try to talk to people behind the scenes to prevent the debate from becoming more polarized. What Pegida did at the As-Soennah mosque last weekend is disgusting. I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk. Such provocative action does not contribute to tolerance, tolerance, coexistence. Actually, it's just problematic behavior. Of course we have freedom of expression, of course there is freedom of demonstration, but this cannot be done. That's why we're investigating what happened. Mr Grapperhaus informed this in a letter to the Chamber on Monday evening. So I find this normatively disgusting. The same applies to the complaints of De Dokwerker in Amsterdam. If you continue to have a normative debate in this context, polarisation is often fed instead of decreasing. I'm constantly trying to find a balance in that. I may do that differently than my predecessors have done, but it is a conscious choice. If you look at this debate, which I have also made my speech at the Jan Brouwer Conference recently, it is often a poisoned debate in which the extremes are confronted. The silent majority then wonders what these extremes are doing with each other and does not recognize themselves in that. I think we should also pay attention to this in this House. I very much agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk on this point. It is an appeal to Mr Kuzu not to play the person. He's been out of the room for a while, but I can see him. We must guard that red line with each other, even in this debate. Especially on these subjects of recent times you can see that people are also being responded to in this Chamber. I think that's unwise. Against this background, I deliberately choose my words and my strategy, because I believe that this is good for living together in the Netherlands for the longer term. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mr. Chairman. We'll soon agree on The Dockworker. I share the Minister's response. Then the doll. That's not my action either. Qualifications should be given to others, but what was written is actually correct. In the world read by 1.6, 1.7 billion Muslims or at least by imam's proposed biography of the prophet Mohammed.... there is only one of... is indeed reported to be a pedophile. He married a six-year-old child and consummated that marriage when the girl was nine. That's paedophilia. Does the Minister find that as disgusting as that doll, or perhaps more disgusting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	What Mr De Graaf is doing here is exactly what I have just tried to illustrate to Mr Gijs van Dijk. Mr De Graaf takes an example from the year 800 AD and goes on to proclaim it as the truth to conduct this debate polarized. I'm just not going along with that. I am not going with Mr De Graaf in this debate. I called Pegida's action disgusting. I really don't think they contribute to living together. I find these contributions to polarization and to contradictions. Mr Grapperhaus sent a letter on this matter last Monday evening. The mayor of The Hague and the police are working on it. This is also for the state's attorney's office. But it is precisely by taking this approach, Mr De Graaf's approach, that Mr De Graaf illustrates exactly what I just said to Mr Gijs van Dijk: expressing very extreme views in this debate and thinking that we are doing society a service. I fundamentally disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	This item is not actually on the agenda, it is not on the agenda, but I would nevertheless like to give Mr De Graaf the opportunity to put a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	It is not a view of Mr De Graaf that is shared here, no, Mr De Graaf shares what is written in that biography that is considered by all Muslims worldwide as leading and so on. Again, 91 orders in the Qur'an to follow that example of that prophet, that so-called prophet. Then it is not a view on my part, not an attempt to polarize a debate. No, I'm telling you facts. Then I would ask the Minister to respond to these facts. I like those facts, because I find paedophilia disgusting. Then the Minister says: yes, you have to see that in time; that is so many hundred years ago and so on, and that polarizes the debate now. No, we are dealing with the reality that that example in the Netherlands is so widely worshiped by a million people. A Minister of Integration has to agree with that. Maybe that could dampen the polarization a little bit. I'm just trying to help him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	If we now take literally what is in the sacred scriptures, whether it is the Bible or the Koran or the Torah, we have a very polarized and normative debate with each other. That is how I interpret Mr De Graaf's remark. It is not intended to contribute to this debate but to polarize and drive wedges. That's exactly why I'm not joining this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	That's ridiculous! Mr President, I am being addressed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	Wait a minute. I have the floor. I'm just looking for a personal fact. I cannot find that very quickly, but I would nevertheless like to give Mr De Graaf the opportunity to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	What the Minister is doing is turning over exactly what I'm saying. He shouldn't twist my words and turn them around. I am talking about facts and I ask the Minister to reflect on those facts, because we are dealing with these facts in society. That is a very sober observation and a very sober question. He shouldn't try to put me in the corner about that. Facts are just facts. Reflect on that. If the minister doesn't dare, he's just a cowardly weasel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr President, I am, of course, a guest in this house, so I am very fond of myself. The point I want to make to Mr De Graaf is the following. Mr De Graaf gives the example of marrying a child. That's paedophilia. That's what we hate about each other. It's also forbidden by the law. At the same time, I can give you hundreds of examples from history, from sacred writings or from royal marriages, which show that it used to be perfectly normal for children to be married out. That's not my point. My point is not that I deny those facts, or that analysis, or what's written down in those sacred writings. I say they were written down a few thousand years ago, in a different context. With this contribution, Mr De Graaf illustrates exactly the point I made towards Mr Gijs van Dijk. He pretends this is the truth and as if it contributes to integration, to living together and to a secure society. That he then blames me is up to Mr De Graaf, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	I do not think the typification given by Mr De Graaf to the Minister is appropriate. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr President, let me take back that typing. What does the Minister do? In the first line, he is indeed answering my first question. Then the whole thing wouldn't have been necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	He literally said: I find that disgusting, paedophilia. That's what I've been asking about. It is the example for all those billions of Muslims in the world. There are 91 orders in the Qur'an to follow that example. This could be an integrative problem. Then I don't polarize, then I'm working on facts. Then none of this would have been necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr President, this illustrates...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	Let's take turns. The Count has taken back his characterization of the minister. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	I appreciate that, Mr President, I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	No, no, take turns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	This illustrates exactly my point about the debate trick, or the polarisation that Mr De Graaf is throwing in this debate by taking this example and saying that it is illustrative for the entire Muslim community. I see that Mr De Graaf is getting very angry about this, but I think it is a good thing that we are going to deepen this once. Mr De Graaf makes a caricature of reality based on writings that are hundreds of years or thousands of years old. He moves what is in it to the current Dutch society, with the result that there is indeed a polarized debate in the Netherlands on this topic. The example mentioned by Mr Gijs van Dijk is the best example, which we have had to deal with very often in the Netherlands in recent years. I just think this is unwise. This only leads to polarisation and not to cohabitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mr Pieter Heerma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	Is the fact that the Minister is conducting this debate not the best proof that the point made by Mr Van Dijk in the AO is justified? I supported that point back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	I understand Mr Heerma's question, but at the same time... Let me take the example of this weekend. The fact that there is less attention to Pegida's disgusting action is also an illustration that the design failed. So yes, once in a while the debate is needed, we have to draw a line and we also have to tell each other where the limits are. Every once in a while, we need to name where the polarization is in the debate. I think it's very good that it happens. As I said earlier, I think it is very good that Mr Gijs van Dijk appointed it in his first term. I have now also had an interrupting debate with Mr De Graaf, precisely on this point. I very much agree with that. More generally, I think that we are very often engaged in debates where extremes are opposed to each other. The proponents and the opponents face each other in the most extreme positions. The "silent majority," the vast majority are looking at it with surprise. This does not contribute to community, to living together, to a peaceful society. But Mr Heerma is right; sometimes it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mr Kuzu has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	I think it is particularly important that this 'quiet majority' should speak out, for example, on an issue such as last weekend's As-Soennah mosque in The Hague. Does the Minister agree with me that we have had numerous debates here in the Chamber, even in recent years, on the As-Soennah mosque and that it may have made it a target of Pegida's action? Many people in The Hague and the visitors of the As-Soennah mosque are worried about what is happening. Then it is said by the Minister for Integration that Pegida's design has not been successful. This is a blind spot of society and a blind spot of politics, because a lot of people are worried about the security of mosques. Many people are worried about the future of Muslims in the Netherlands. We are talking about extremes in the debate. I would like to ask the Minister in a very specific way: do you think it is weird that there are people standing up, with different backgrounds, who say: we are tired of this polarization of the last twenty years in society, we are tired of this PVV and the language of the PVV? Do you find it strange that these people unite and make a fist against it? Does the Minister think that's crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr President, may I present a mirror to Mr Kuzu? In what Mr Kuzu is doing in his introduction, I hear exactly the polarization I have just described. He's responding to Mr. De Graaf. Let me just say that the two extremes will then be discussed again in the debate. And the layered reality that is underneath is then wiped to a lot. We have also had debates in this house about developments in the As-Soennah mosque that we are concerned about, and rightly so. This concerns integration, anti-integrative behaviour, anti-democratic behaviour. That is then thrown into one pile with his statement that the silent majority denies that there are problems with the safety of mosques. That is precisely the polarizing effect that Mr Kuzu has in this debate. Perhaps that effect is undesirable, but I am starting to doubt it, I say honestly, Mr President. And Mr Kuzu does not do justice to the layered reality we are all dealing with. Mr Kuzu now blames Mr De Graaf, but Mr Kuzu has the same behaviour in this debate as Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	This is exactly the point I want to make. This is a matter of cause-effect, of action-response. For 20 years there has been stigmatized and polarized. And then the Minister should not be surprised if there are people here who bring that feeling of a lot of people in society to the place where it belongs, namely Parliament. In response to the accusation of polarization: the maximum you can say is that it is a result of that polarization and a reaction to it. I think that is the right thing to do for us, who represent the voice of a lot of people who are worried about exactly those incidents that happened last week. It would be good if the Minister did not say that this is one extreme against another, and I would like the Minister to set a standard here and be very clear about what we do accept and what we do not, rather than pretending to be dealing with great polarisation in society. He has an exemplary role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	Now my clog breaks. If anyone here steps into a we-side frame in this debate, it is Mr Kuzu. I keep trying to name that layered reality in terms of developments in that same mosque that we're worried about versus Pegida's action, which I find disgusting. I am trying to bring this layering into the debate in a good way. Now I note to Mr Gijs van Dijk that in this normative debate there is a great deal of polarisation, of thought on our part. Mr Kuzu begins with this in his speech, with which I confront him. And then he kind of blames me for not going along with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	Now my clog breaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	We're doing interruptions in two. But I would like to give Mr Kuzu the opportunity to ask one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	Now my clog breaks. Because it is not about the layering in the discussion, it is about the fact that we speak clearly about what we do want and what we do not find acceptable. For that we have a Constitution, we have freedom of religion. The government is responsible for the security of buildings and citizens. It would be a good idea for the Minister to make a statement on this and take action on it, as we have put forward numerous proposals in recent years, which could be seen as a hand-out rather than a side-by-side approach. 'Cause I'm gonna stand back from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	The latter is very positive, let's try to hold it together. We have more than the Constitution, we also have values and a normative debate. We talked a few weeks ago about problematic behavior, where this is precisely the problem: behavior that is not punishable by law, but with which we all have problems. We had a good debate on how to tackle it. I have certainly made normative statements when it comes to the Dockworker in Amsterdam and Pegida's action. But let us also try to put together this layered reality in this debate a little more. Let us try a little more to name the extremes less and to look more for the nuance and the layering in the debate. Then I come to Mr Paternotte and Brexit, a completely different subject, a layered reality. We did indeed have a little debate during the AO on Brexit. I have a comprehensive answer, which I need to do for a while, because it's a complicated discussion. I understand Mr Paternotte's concerns. In the AO of 20 February, I indicated that I think that the suggestion to give British time to settle down in the Netherlands is a sympathetic idea, which I will discuss with colleagues from Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security. These consultations have taken place, on which I can state the following. It has also been decided which regime applies to the British who will settle in the Netherlands after the Brexit date. British citizens who are based in the Netherlands at the time of Brexit do not need to enter citizens to obtain a residence permit after the Brexit date. That's one. The good news is that it also applies to British newcomers who settle in the Netherlands after the Brexit date with a work permit, when it comes to work. Thus, when the UK leaves the EU without exit agreements, in a no-deal scenario, the British settle in the Netherlands after the Brexit date will become third-country nationals from that point on. The most favourable regime will then apply to them: there is no visa requirement and no obligation to obtain an examination abroad. However, these British must apply for a residence permit. It depends on the purpose of the stay in the Netherlands whether British citizens have to settle in in order to obtain a residence permit. British people applying for employment-related residence permits do not need to be citizens. British people who settle in the Netherlands for the purpose of family reunification or integration are indeed required at the time they obtain the regular residence permit. They will then be given a three-year period of citizenship. British citizens who first settle in the Netherlands because of work and wish to settle here permanently over time can apply for a residence permit for an indefinite period after a minimum of five years' residence. In order to obtain this stronger right of residence, they must pass the integration exam, as in the situation of wanting to become a Dutch citizen. In view of the fact that the British will apply for a labour-related residence permit here, there was mainly Mr Paternotte's question during the AO of 20 February on............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The obligation of integration, as it has now been designed, does not hinder British companies and citizens from settling here if it is related to labour. That is a nuanced, layered answer to Mr Paternotte's questions. This has removed Mr Paternotte's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr Paternotte, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	In the layered and complex reality of a no-dealbrexit, this is indeed the case for the most part. Of course you have a group of people who still join their family after a no-dealbrexit and for whom the situation of course changes completely, because there is no direct employment relationship with them. They are therefore directly subject to integration. That does not seem to me to be illogical for third-country nationals who settle here permanently. But my question is whether you can keep an eye on that, because of course it is reasonable that, in the case of a no deal, an agreement is being made somewhere in the near future on the basis of which that obligation of integration is to lapse. So these people do end up in a weird situation. So my question is whether you can keep an eye on this, in particular its impact on the choices of British companies for their location.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	For the sake of clarity, yes. We are now in a complicated situation, because we all know that on 11, 12, 13 and 14 March there are all kinds of votes in the House of Commons and there is a great deal of confusion about that point. This is why a wide range of public organisations also monitor developments and their consequences. So the answer is short: yes. Mrs Becker and Mr Paternotte have asked for the possibility of imposing an obligation of integration on the group covered by the so-called Chavez judgment, also in relation to the previous question on the duty of Turkish integration. I would like to confirm the commitment I made in the AO of 20 February. For the summer, you will receive an overview of newcomers who are exempt from the obligation to enter and on what grounds they are excluded. I will also inform you about the results of the consultation with the Secretary of State of JenV on the legal possibilities for imposing this obligation on the group which is not subject to the Chavez judgment. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Özdil's 247: "calls on the government to publish the Annual Report on Integration under the heading of the Annual Report on the Social State of the Netherlands with a migration background." This request to me is actually intended for the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, because I am not talking about the titles of the SCP reports. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I have not yet been able to read Mr Özdil's booklet. It's on my table, but I haven't been able to read it yet. However, as I pointed out during the legislative consultation on integration and integration on 19 November, I see both the perspective of integration and the perspective of society. We must keep these two perspectives apart in this debate. As far as I am concerned, the perspective of integration is about equal social status, for example, in education and in the labour market. This requires objective criteria, indicators and reports to have a sense of whether things are moving in the right direction. The figures also indicate that for that equal position, which Mr Kuzu has just asked for, there is still a need for attention to be paid to the fact that there are still steps to be taken. The perspective of society is aimed at preventing individuals and groups from closing themselves to each other in our various societies and at creating frictions between these groups. But it is also about matters that Mr Özdil indicates, such as rooting, citizenship, embracing Dutch citizenship. So I am not fully involved in the discussion on the definition issue. It is indeed important to have those reports and figures, also in order to be able to come up with good policies for ourselves. So I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'm withdrawing my motion. I've placed responsibility with the wrong minister. I apologize for that. I have another point of order. My book, which the minister mentioned, is called the Netherlands my homeland, and it is still available online.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	The second is in no way a point of order. The first one was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	The motion in part No. 248 of Mr Özdil asks the government to exempt citizens who successfully complete a mbo-1 level trajectory from the KNM, knowledge of Dutch society, and ONA, orientation on the Dutch labour market, in the integration exam. If it is true that citizens who take a mbo-1 course in the career and citizenship section learn the same things as during the integration classes KNM and ONA, then it seems indeed unnecessary to oblige them to take lessons KNM and also to take the KNM integration exam. The same applies to the ONA section, if it is true that citizens receive career guidance during the mbo-1 training and are trained in a particular discipline. My doubts are as to whether they really are. I want to make sure that this is actually comparable in terms of content and that the level to be achieved during MBO-1 training is comparable to the level to be achieved during the KNM and ONA integration examinations. I would like to look into this, and if it turns out that it is all right, I would also like to take this into account in the development of the system. I can give the motion judgment Chamber, but I just want to promise that I'm gonna do this. Then Mr Özdil may hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	I thank the Minister for his reply. I'd like to ask him what he likes best. He wants me to hold the motion until he gets the bottom stone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	We're taking it with us anyway. My picture of the last time was that there were differences. We were also talking about Mbo-1 and Mbo-2 levels. I remember that there would be a difference, but since there are other signals, I just want to figure this out and work it out nicely. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the motion is superfluous, because I am simply saying this to Mr Özdil. I would therefore suggest that he withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	That is up to Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	Given the promise that the Minister will take care of it, I'd like to withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	Since the Özdil motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mrs Becker has a question about this. I've given a lot of room for discussion, but we're way out of date, so I'm gonna keep everyone tight now. So you're the last person to ask a question about someone else's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	That's an honor, Mr. Chairman. I will try to do justice to this honor. The Minister is, of course, also reforming labour market orientation within the framework of the new integration system, which is precisely the idea that people are going to gain much more from day one real practical experience in the workplace. How does a possible exemption when a MBO-1 level path is completed then relate to such a system? That may seem problematic to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mbo-1 is an educational route. It is one of three routes in the new integration system. Career guidance could be part of the training pathway, which is distinct from the regular B1 route or the Z route, in which the participation link is very important. Let me map it right. It doesn't do anyone any good if people have to double-test unnecessarily. Then maybe it can just be more efficient. That's what I'm always from. Apart from that, I agree with Mrs Becker that this link to the labour market is extremely important; that is what we all want. In the motion in part No. 249 calls on Mr Özdil to examine whether these citizens can already use the Z route. I indicated in the AO that I would first like a more detailed analysis of this group, the ELIPs. I have indicated that here too the reality is more complex than just people who are the victims of language agencies. There are also people who cheated or just didn't make it. I would first like to carry out a more detailed analysis. That is why I reject this motion by Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	At the request of Mr Özdil, I propose his motion (32824), No. 249). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mrs Becker's motion and Mr Heerma's motion for a resolution 250 calls on the government to examine whether and how the new integration system for citizens could include the obligation to let their children go to pre-school care. That is what we discussed during the debate. I share the concerns. I very much agree with that. I think it is very important that, especially young children, if they have a language retardation, go to school quickly to catch up with that language retardation. I don't think there's any difference of opinion on that either. We're gonna map out and find out where the problem is, as I've already indicated in the AO. For example, is there a decline in participation? I am doing this in addition to the ongoing investigation with Minister Slob and Secretary of State Van Ark when it comes to childcare. I'll get the city involved in this, too. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr De Graaf has tabled three motions. In his motion in part No. It calls on the government to deport citizens, non-citizens and citizens' fraudsters. This motion I must advise against. We have regularly exchanged these arguments with each other. Then the motion-De Graaf in part no. 252, which calls on the government to respect the EU Court of Justice and to include them in the duty of integration in relation to all those who do not need to bury in the Chavez-Vilchez judgment. Mr De Graaf will not be surprised that I also reject this motion given the judgment of the European Court of Justice and since I have already indicated to Mr Paternotte and Mrs Becker that I am going to investigate the Chavez judgment. Then the motion-De Graaf in part no. 253 which calls on the government to stop preparing for the disastrous new hammock law on integration. I am very motivated to implement that law as soon as possible. It will not surprise Mr De Graaf that I must also discourage that motion. The motion in part No. 254 by Mr Kuzu and calls on the government to abandon the term 'integration'. In fact, I have just had this discussion following Mr Özdil's motion and the prospect of integration and the perspective of society. I have seen this motion by Mr Kuzu before. I don't recommend this one. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu asked the government to set up a more effective programme by starting by increasing the amount reserved to 30 million when it comes to further integration into the labour market. I have tried to point out in the AO that, unfortunately, we know little about what effective policies are when it comes to further integration into the labour market and that the VIA project has therefore been launched. That's just not started to roll out the whole thing all over the Netherlands, but to map out, scientific, evidence-based, which works and doesn't. We have made the EUR 10 million available for this purpose. Expanding this while we don't know the results yet makes no sense. It makes sense to put that in the scaffolding for the whole country if we have the results and have effective policies. That's how I dissuade the motion. By the way, there's no cover for it either. The motion in part No. 256 calls on the government to include national quality standards in the new integration policy. It says: Whereas municipalities have a greater role to play in integration policy, there is a risk that differences between municipalities may arise. We have jointly agreed that there are indeed national requirements, national frameworks and national examination requirements. Even when it comes to the learning test, there are all national frameworks. At the same time, we also consider it important that the municipalities can offer customization given their specific circumstances, regional position and size of the municipality. After all, one municipality is not the other. These national quality standards are there, for example, when it comes to the examination requirements. They'll be determined nationwide. The motion exudes the smell that Mr Jasper van Dijk wants more centralization, but I would like to be careful about that again. I think I should discourage the motion. Mr Jasper van Dijk can also continue the motion until the work is done. On this basis, he can judge whether it is in line with his feelings about how much national direction there should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr Van Dijk. We're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	I'd be late. This motion is intended to give you something. I am also very much in favour of customization, but I am also in favour of these municipalities not growing too much apart. I would advise the Minister to consider this motion as constructive and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	I regard all motions as constructive and as a contribution to the debate. I will put the motion in the debate I have had before, especially with Mrs Becker, about what local customization and flexibility are exactly and about the local political choice of how to implement the policy, versus what exactly are the national direction and quality standards. These are also the frameworks I work with in the design of the system. I think it is very close together, but again: the atmosphere of the motion is a little more centralized and a little more blueprint than I might like. That's why I advise against this motion. Good interpretation, says Mr Jasper van Dijk outside the microphone. Yeah, I know him a little bit! The motion in part No. 257 asks the government to examine how the link between employer and landlord can be broken up. I understand the question. In particular, it deals with the issue of dependence. At the same time, it is not legally prohibited to offer accommodation as an employer. In fact, in many cases it is also desirable to prevent the emergence of all kinds of other social problems. Frankly, this motion strikes me a bit, because we did not talk about it at all in the AO and because this is actually a responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, because it is about housing and housing policy. I would therefore advise against the motion here, and I would like to suggest that we discuss the motion with Mrs Ollongren, which is about that local housing policy. Finally, one of the things that is positive is that we have recently reached agreement in Europe on the ELA, the European Labour Authority, where a great deal of information is shared between countries about what you are entitled to and where the vulnerabilities are, but this aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	May I make an attempt to get together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	But short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	Time. This minister is concerned with integration and, in this case, with the integration of migrant workers. We are seeing an increasing problem there about housing. I also asked him to clarify the policy of housing migrant workers. Can I tempt him to say that he's willing to put that in order? Then I can hold this motion and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	I propose a compromise, because sometimes we do negotiate in public. I will pass this request on to the Minister of the Interior, because this is her portfolio and her responsibility. I feel uncomfortable saying this right now, but I get the point. So I'm going to bring this to Mrs Ollongren's attention. He'll be able to inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u101	And that's possible before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u102	That's what we're gonna do our best to do. Yeah, I see nodding heads. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u103	Look, there's nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u104	That's very nice. Thank you for that commitment. Then, after that letter comes, I will decide whether or not to hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-8.u106	We're going to vote on the motions on Tuesday. The minister's not done with us yet. We are going to have another debate requested by Mr Kuzu. Mr De Graaf and Mr Paternotte have signed up for this. I assume that Mr Kuzu wishes to table a motion. This requires at least four supporters. I would be happy to do so in advance, but I would ask one of the other Members to sit down. Look, it's taken care of. We need plenty of them. Perhaps Mr Van Dijk can also stay for a few minutes.
