ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	I shall first give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD for his questions to the Minister for Legal Protection on human rights violations in Saint Martin. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, thank you. The Netherlands must intervene in human rights violations on Sint-Maarten. That is actually the conclusion of the College of Human Rights. I am surprised at this, because this is about the Kingdom of the Netherlands, with the Statute leading. In fact, the Statute, which is even higher than our Constitution, determines how we deal with each other. The Statute also determines who is a treaty partner on all kinds of treaties in the world. Thus, the Kingdom of the Netherlands is treaty partner and not the country of the Netherlands. So I'm a little surprised that the College of Human Rights, which is first of all a Dutch institute, is so determined about its research that it did at Saint Martin's, at least, I think, and that it comes to the conclusion that the Netherlands should be addressed to the responsibilities of the autonomous country of Saint Martin. My surprise is therefore great. I have the following questions for the Minister. How is it that the Committee is taking on this task within the Kingdom? Has this been discussed with the countries? Does Aruba, Curaçao and St Maarten agree that the Committee on Human Rights in the Netherlands is also their Committee? Has the Committee given feedback to the country of Saint Martin? After all, the country of Saint Martin is the competent authority. Has there been feedback on that? I now have the impression that the Committee on Human Rights deals directly with the Netherlands or with the Council of Europe. What are the responsibilities? The Minister of Justice of Saint Martin, Mr. De Weever, we know well. We had a conversation with him once, in which he was very clear. In retrospect, he said: if the problems become big enough, it will become a problem for the Kingdom. That can't be true. Surely it is not possible for the Kingdom to be held responsible by doing nothing to a Minister of Justice of Saint Martin? My questions to the Minister are therefore: to what extent does he see improvement, have agreements been made and are they actually being dealt with in Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman is right when he is concerned, like me, about the conditions of detention in Saint Martin. The Human Rights Committee has announced this. Formally, it has a mission to the country of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is part of the Kingdom again. Responsibility for security and law enforcement is very clearly invested within the Kingdom, namely with individual countries. This also means that I believe that my fellow Minister of Justice De Weever has a great responsibility in improving detention conditions there. I also follow this closely with my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations because, as you know, we are currently receiving some prisoners in the Netherlands as a result of Hurricane Irma, but it is the intention that they should be returned. In October, we agreed with the Sint-Maarten Cabinet on the steps needed to ensure the successful return of those prisoners. I regret to note that there is not enough progress in this regard. I'm incredibly disappointed in that, too. So my colleague and I are going to keep pushing that very hard. We have for the time being had to suspend the return of detainees, except for a number of whom the conditional release period began. In any case, however, I am very much inclined to ensure that St.Maarten takes his responsibility and is going to make sure that the prison is put in order there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's a clear answer. But this also means that there will be discussions with St Maarten on the basis of the National Council of Ministers within the framework of the Statute. I can imagine that is the level at which we are talking about what is to come. Then the National Council of Ministers as an organ of the Kingdom is the place to talk about it. I would like the Minister to confirm that the country of the Netherlands within that Kingdom can never be addressed individually as a country responsible for a problem on Aruba, Curaçao or Saint Martin. This would undermine the preamble to the Statute, which states that we have entered into the Statute together with the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. This would have an enormous impact, especially if, for example, the Council of Europe ordered the Netherlands to intervene. That is not possible, because it breaks the Kingdom's responsibility and the equality of the country, and so you are actually turning the Statute upside down. The people in the room know me and know that I would have no problem with that. I would even prefer to change that statute seriously. But that's not the issue right now. And if the change in the Staff Regulations is not on the agenda, I would like to confirm once again, also from this Minister, that it is also clear within the civil service that the country of the Netherlands is never at the ball. It may be up to the ball at the request of Aruba, Curaçao or, as it is now, Saint Martin, but it can never judge or intervene in other countries. That would be my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Bosman is absolutely right, especially formally, when he says that the Statute is very clear. It lays down security and law enforcement tasks for individual countries. That is what I am always calling on my colleague. The same Statute includes a guarantee function: if it is not complied with for a long time, the Kingdom of the Netherlands may intervene. That's how it's formalized. The Netherlands is, of course, an important country within the Kingdom. I also feel a responsibility to ensure that the Netherlands takes on its duties and responsibilities within the Kingdom, regardless of the fact that we currently have 23 prisoners from Saint Martin, thousands of kilometres away from their families. We cannot work on their rehabilitation in the Netherlands, because that can only be done at the place they will have to go back to. That concerns me very much. This is exactly the subject of conversation between me and my colleague De Weever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	Then it becomes more interesting, because the Minister does speak of a responsibility of the Netherlands as a large country within the Kingdom, but then he does wrong to the equivalence of the four countries. The Minister also talks about the guarantee function. Paragraph 2 says that the guarantee is provided by the Kingdom if the countries fail, but there must also be no redres, no improvement and no modus operandi to improve it. But then I hear this cabinet say in principle: this may be the time for a clue to St.Maarten, in order to put pressure on the Minister of Justice to arrange it on St.Maarten. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	We are certainly increasing the pressure towards Saint Martin. By the way, we do this in other ways, namely by making very concrete agreements, not only about paying and compensating the costs incurred by the country Netherlands for the reception of the prisoners from Saint Martin, but also about the improvements that we expect Saint Martin to carry out with regard to the organisation and the building atmosphere of the prison there. At the same time, the question is being considered: what if this is not going to provide sufficient relief and there is insufficient improvement? You have also been able to see this, because Nieuwsuur and NOS have received a note showing that my colleague and I are looking at possible follow-up scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	The minister just referred to Nieuwsuur. I understand from this that a number of prisoners have indeed been sent back to Saint Martin and that they have also been in the Pointe Blanche prison. The Minister says here: we have actually suspended the return of prisoners since October. Is he saying that no prisoners were sent back after October and ended up in the Pointe Blanche prison?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	I said it was suspended, except for three people whose release was conditional. In the case of people who are about to be released, the point of re-socialisation is, of course, going to play an even more important role. You have to prepare things to make sure that these ex-cons can return to society in a normal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	I am very pleased that the Minister is not only talking about how it is technocratic, but also about the terrible conditions in the overseas prisons. I was actually wondering if the notes he's talking about could be shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	These are official notes. We are not used to sharing it with the Chamber, but your room has probably read it because they have been leaked. I think NOS and Nieuwsuur have also posted the notes on their website. There's nothing secret in those notes for the rest, by the way. These are considerations and opinions that my colleague and I have received in order to reach good decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	The situation in the prison on Sint-Maarten is really terrible and the Netherlands really has to offer help. But we are also dealing in Saint Martin with a Minister of Justice who is not embracing aid but frustrating. How can we help when the government of Saint Martin doesn't seem to want that help? Can we force help? How can we manage this with such a relentless Minister of Justice on Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	I understand Mr Van Raak's point. I think we share the frustration. Because the image that the Netherlands would not have done anything or would not have done anything is just not right. We have not only received prisoners and provided real assistance in securing the prison shortly after Irma, but we have also recently provided advice and our expertise and made the project director on offer. But we can see that there is not enough use of this by St.Maarten. And then I think: how can it be that a country that can use all the help to make sure it gets back on its feet, doesn't take it with both hands? We try to increase the pressure in all kinds of ways. Every day those prisoners sit here, the financial counter goes through for Saint Martin and I think it is a country that can use that money in a different way. So as a country, we are also thinking about the follow-up steps that could or should be taken from the Kingdom if this leads to insufficient improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you for your answer.
