ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u1	The next item is the Electronic Publications Act. I had already warmly welcomed the Minister. He was also present in the two VAOs before. Speaking time is five minutes. You will have two interruptions in two or four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u2	I call Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I very much wonder if we're going to need these interruptions, because I'm the one responsible for this law not being tapped as a hammer piece. That doesn't even have to do with the law itself. This has to do with the fact that a month and a half ago during the vote on the Environment Act, part of land ownership, the CDA group voted wrong. They voted against, while they wanted to vote in favour of an amendment from me, which narrowly rejected it. Then, in consultation with the Legislative Office, we looked for another law on which this amendment could be tabled, and that became this law. That is why this time, together with the CDA, we have tabled an amendment, to be very clear, to amend the Environment Act to allow municipalities not only one but two years to make a new environmental plan if it is destroyed and this will then continue to apply. But while we are talking about this part, I would like to ask the Minister about this law. Because in our group's view, it is very good that digital becomes the standard of government communication, but it cannot be that people who are less digital can not communicate with the government. That is why I would like to ask the Minister once again to really stress that people who are less digital can simply keep in good contact with the government. I would also ask him to keep a close eye on developments. If it turns out that the provision of information for people with less digital skills is really deteriorating, I would ask the Minister to inform and intervene with the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u4	Thank you. Mrs Den Boer has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u5	Mr President, you can see that we take this seriously. Digitisation offers opportunities and occurs everywhere. There is hardly any area that is not touched by it. That also means that contact with the government can change. That's what this law shows. In a nutshell, the law ensures that notices, communications and decisions of governing bodies are published digitally, all in the same way and on one website. Now municipalities, provinces, water boards and other administrative bodies still do so in different ways. Some do it digitally, but on their own website, but others do it in a door-to-door magazine. Now it all comes to one place. In general, this is a good step forward, for the awareness and findability of such announcements. I have a few questions on three points. Firstly, D66 believes it is very important that everyone, including the less digital voice in our society, can participate. For them, reading an announcement in a door-to-door magazine can be easier than looking up it online. This law frees governments to opt for publication in home-to-home magazines. However, a logical consequence could be that municipalities stop doing this. Of the 206 municipalities that have already switched to electronic publication, only 58% are published in a home-to-home magazine. So 42% doesn't do that anymore. The explanatory memorandum to the law states that public authorities generally make additional provisions, such as making them available in public places such as City Hall. Can the Minister explain exactly what is meant by this? Should governments make additional provisions for the less digital, or should they? Therefore, it could also be considered to include an explicit duty of care in this proposal, which demonstrates the need for the governing body to provide tailor-made services for less digital use and that administrative bodies should use additional, analogue channels if necessary to reach all stakeholders. Why didn't the Minister choose this? Can he explain that? Finally, how are people informed about this change? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the impact on local media. The bill is clear. In addition to the mandatory electronic publication, there are still all the possibilities to publish in local media. However, as we already see in a number of municipalities, there is a good chance that municipalities will do so less or more succinctly now that the electronic road becomes mandatory. Well, there's a lot of consequences for that. Local media collects advertising revenue from these publications. Does the Minister agree that this law can unintentionally have a negative side effect on the survival of local media? We know this minister as a ruler with an eye to the region. I take it that he also loves the regional media. Can the Minister promise that he will monitor the effects of this law on local media, perhaps together with his colleague from OCW? Is this included in the legal assessment that will be carried out? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, the attention service. From now on, all people will be informed of publications related to their immediate living environment by email from my government. People can turn that off, too. There's an opt-out system. To make this work, personal data from my government and the BRP are linked. The Minister chooses this because research would show that people want to be informed, but they will not take care of this themselves. I still have some questions about the need for this. Unsolicited attention violates privacy, similar to unsolicited mails for commercial purposes. We have rightly restricted this. The Authority Personal Data suggests to refrain from unsolicited attention and to focus more intensively on voluntary use of the service, thereby lowering the threshold for an opt-in. Can the Minister respond to this proposal? I also wonder how many e-mail messages this would amount to. Is that once a day, once a week or once a month? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u6	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u7	Thank you, Mr President. On this subject, of course, you will not get away from talking about digitalisation. I think it's clear that with this digital revolution and the emergence of electronic media, we're all doing less and less on paper. In this sense, the VVD considers this step to be a good step to see how citizens can find out more easily relevant announcements and communications. In that sense, in that digital world of government, the uniform approach that this law is trying to achieve is something that is going to help. In all this, it is important that we always focus on those who have limited digital knowledge or limited access to digital resources in this type of innovation. That is what my main point is about, after saying that this is a good step. When we talk about the evaluation, it is about the effectiveness and the impact of the law. In the discussion that preceded this, we also talked with the Minister about people with less digital capabilities, or who would remain connected. It has also been about how those alternative channels used by municipalities, for example, to reach citizens, will be used when this law enters into force. The question is therefore whether the use of alternative channels and their development will also be taken into account in this evaluation. Or is this evaluation going to look at the effectiveness and effects of the law and thus at the digital channels that are trying to shape this law better? Or is it going to look at channels that may disappear because this law is now coming into force? I ask the Minister to state what he intends to do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u8	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u9	Thank you, Mr President. You are, of course, the chairman of the Permanent Chambers Committee on the Interior, but you are now also following us to the plenary, and that is a pleasure to meet you again. It is good that you have reduced the number of interruptions a bit, otherwise it would have been night work. By the way, if you'd like to preside over the rest of the evening, I can arrange that for you. All you have to do is squeal. Mr. Chairman. Now I understand why we're here today. I've been reading that law, too, and I thought, "What the hell is that?" I'd almost say this isn't about anything. I was also wondering: how is this going to be a splashing political debate with ideological contradictions? I did not see that, but now I understand that we are only pawns in a great chess game by Mr Smeulders and that it is simply about tabling an amendment. I didn't see the link to the Environment Act either, but I understand that it is at the root of it. So you can do that, you can table an amendment, and then you can call off this law. So that's why we're allowed to be here with all the conviviality. I have a number of questions that largely overlap with what previous speakers have said. For example, how will accessibility remain guaranteed during the transition period to those electronic publications of government decisions. After the implementation of the law, will it remain possible for digitally less skilled citizens to stay informed? For example, the waterboards report: "We strongly ask for attention to be paid to the risk that this bill will exclude non-digitive citizens from notices of waterboard decisions." Well, that's a reasonable concern. How does the Minister feel about that? The government itself states that "the communication that is still physically taking place must also be able to take place digitally in the future." So "also" and "must be able to take place," but on the basis of the bill it seems that digital communication is physical or physical. Analog communication will be replaced. Am I getting that right? Or is it just a supplement? I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. The Party for Freedom considers it important that the municipalities remain accessible. After all, they're responsible. All kinds of regulations of our local authorities should also be able to be consulted on location, physically. Does the Minister agree? There is, of course, a trend in which there are fewer and fewer newspapers and home-to-home newspapers. They are also less read, but this does not give the government a licence to inform citizens less frequently or less frequently. If communication continues to run more and more electronically, will the Minister make sure that human contact with the municipality is guaranteed? In my humble opinion, this should even be strengthened. Finally. What is the Minister going to do, after this law has been passed, to ensure that the IT pathway associated with this bill is as smooth as possible? In an earlier debate today, the Minister said that he knows a lot of IT projects which are being launched with the best of intentions, but which now, in my own words, end in chaos. Then I thought, "Does he take an advance on this law?" How's he gonna make sure this doesn't end in a major IT fiasco? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u10	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This morning, on the way to the Lower House on the way to the tram, I thought: I'm going to ask people if they are carefully aware of the official announcements, communications and notifications of government decisions. I have to say, I didn't like the harvest. I believe that there is a small group of citizens in the country who will have an easier life with this law and will be able to make easier use of these notifications. That's fine. We did not necessarily have to deal with this here, but we have seen that GroenLinks submits an amendment to the Electronic Publications Act to the Environment Act, so that an error in a vote is corrected. It's really good that we're doing that. I have also seen that Mrs Den Boer and Mr Middendorp have been able to tell a whole story. And I must say that Mr Bosma has also done a very good job. I would like to draw attention to one specific point. At the end of last year, my colleague, Mr Kwint, drew attention to this when the Minister had this law in preparation. It concerns the position of the home-to-home magazines. I understand from the documents that 24 million a year is spent on publications in newspapers and house-to-house newspapers. We shouldn't underestimate that. We already have many municipal councils in which hardly any journalist is present. If there's anyone present, it's from a local newspaper or a door-to-door magazine. Many home-to-home magazines survive through those official announcements, which may not be read by every citizen, but which they do need in order to survive. The minister says: yes, but if there are no official announcements, then the municipalities will still use that space in the newspapers. Well, I'm seriously wondering. Mrs Den Boer has already presented figures showing that this will be disappointing. That is why I would ask the Minister to keep an eye on the future, for example for a year, whether these expenditures are actually falling. Does this law lead to municipalities investing less in home-to-home magazines and taking less space in home-to-home magazines? Are those house-to-house magazines gonna get in trouble with that? Can they pay less attention to local politics? Are there gonna be no more reporters at the city council on the benches? So, with this proposal, will we also undermine local democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u12	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u13	Do I hear correctly that Mr Van Raak is actually asking a question here about a hidden piece of nationalisation of government communication? 'Cause he's actually asking about the following. Previously, announcements were made in home-to-home magazines, which are often in private hands. Now the danger, or we must be careful, is that the nationalisation of these communications actually causes some loss, because they are done digitally by the government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u14	If Mr Middendorp is afraid of hidden state aid: no, there is not, it is literally in the newspaper. Municipalities buy space in a local newspaper, a door-to-door magazine, and make announcements. I don't see any harm in that. What I do see as a disadvantage is that if house-to-house newspapers go bankrupt or, for example, cut down on journalists, there is no journalist at the city council anymore and such a municipality will pay for itself only a journalist. Then you get a state journalism. That is a real danger I see. As a socialist, should I explain to Mr Middendorp that it is better to leave that to a commercial newspaper if necessary than to a state journalist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u15	Very briefly, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u16	No, Mr President, Mr Van Raak certainly does not have to explain that to me, because that is exactly what I heard. He'll find me there by his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u17	So please make a commitment from the minister that he, let's say, within a year... He makes a promise in the documents that that money will still be spent on home-to-home magazines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u18	But you were at the end of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u19	I'm over it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u20	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u22	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. How many minutes does he need for a possible suspension? No suspension. The Minister will proceed with the answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u23	Mr President, as you can see, a mistake in the vote has been made in this way, and then there is a plenary debate on a very important subject. This law will not be so well known, Mr Van Raak has surveyed it this morning, but the essence of the law is hopefully known to many people. This is: how does the government share its information and how does the government publish its notices? This is also important for a debate that we have had before, namely on the trust citizens have in the government. That means that you know what the government is doing, and that at the right time in the abundance of data that sometimes exist, you get information that is relevant to you and your situation to make certain considerations. In this sense, this is an opportunity to highlight the importance of this law once again, so I would like to thank Members for their input. I would also like to thank Mr Smeulders, accompanied by Mr Ronnes, for the amendment. Before I come to the questions asked, I would like to comment on a number of points concerning the legislative proposal. This bill contains a new publication law and amends related provisions in the General Administrative Law Act. In recent years, this cabinet, as well as previous Cabinets, has invested heavily in electronic infrastructure for government publications. All local authorities are now connected to this. For example, the Staatsmaak, the Gemeenteblad, the Provincial Magazine and the Waterschapsblad are now accessible electronically via www.officialebekeningen.nl. You can also subscribe to an alert service for local messages, where you will receive an e-mail if there is a government publication that relates to your immediate living environment, for example a request from the neighbors for a building permit. With this proposal, the cabinet aims to increase access to public publications. It's not shrinking, it's magnifying. In addition, the information on decisions, which is now also made digitally accessible, is also published in home-to-home magazines. This is done for the sake of participation and also to allow other interested parties to object and appeal. This proposal does not force us to do anything, but offers the opportunity to do it in a contemporary way. We cannot deny that digitalisation is continuing, but we are not going to oblige the other channel, I think Mr Middendorp was talking about stopping it, quite the contrary. That would be contrary to the principle that citizens, in all their forms, can participate, I say to Mr Smeulders, Mrs Den Boer, Mr Van Raak and others who pointed that out. People who are not digitally skilled must still be given the opportunity to learn about government publications. There are already a lot of municipalities that have just arranged to do this electronically. This legislative proposal also provides for uniform rules. The advantage of this is that publications are more findable. You can remember the newspaper pages where those long lists were. It was a bit like people used to put ads in the Telegraph or in other newspapers, if they had to get rid of their car. Then you'd have these long tables and columns you had to look for. That is not the most efficient form, especially at this time. The possibilities offered by electronic publication can also really be a service for the citizen. This is without prejudice to the fact that those who cannot participate still have the possibility to find what they are looking for physically in the documents available in town halls. You can also see that a lot of municipalities apply this dual-track policy. On the one hand they publish electronically and on the other hand they still publish in home-to-home magazines, but in a kind of summary form, where you can go to a website if you want more information and find the relevant information there. I think that's a very nice way, with the possibilities we have today and never had before. Then I come to a number of questions. Let me start with the amendment tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Ronnes. Because when it comes to legislation, it is of course the most important thing: the right of amendment of the Chamber, to amend matters. For the sake of clarity, I can say that I am in a position to give my opinion to the Chamber. Then a number of questions have been asked. Mrs Den Boer and Mr Smeulders, as well as Mr Van Raak, asked: how do we achieve that electronic publications also reach people who are less digitally skilled? Anyone with a MyGovernment account will automatically receive email messages. Then it is very easy to set up an e-mail address for another person, who is not sufficiently docile in this area. For example, you can help family members or acquaintances who are in a particular situation to make it easily available. And of course, as I said, the physical desk remains available. Here we can ask with the help of officials: help me through those files, how should I read this? It is about keeping it as low-threshold as possible. In addition, there is the possibility for municipalities themselves to use additional channels. We certainly do not discourage that either. I mention house-to-house magazines, printed publications in libraries, the sending of printed publications on request, the distribution of residents' letters in the neighbourhood concerned, as well as the use of social media. Mrs Den Boer wondered whether these additional provisions were mandatory or whether there was a duty of care. For legal publication, electronic publication is sufficient, but with the National Ombudsman and, in fact, with the entire Chamber, I believe that there is also a standard of fairness to provide for additional publications if necessary to reach everyone. Since administrative bodies are already required to publish additional publications in these cases, an obligation to publish additional publications has been waived. For the same reason, a duty of care has also been waived. Mrs Den Boer asked what this law could mean for the survival of local media. Mr Van Raak joined that question by saying that many magazines survived or survived through the announcements. Look, the purpose of those announcements, of course, is not to maintain those magazines. That is in line with Mr Middendorp's interruption. It is undeniable that some of those magazines in the past depended to a large extent on those announcements. Those magazines need to look for new income to stay profitable. Can it be ruled out that some magazines will not survive because they were very dependent on this? No, I can't rule that out. From my own practice in the municipality where I live, I see that the house-to-house magazine is looking for other possibilities. It may no longer happen in the extent in which it originally did so, but the municipality still uses this channel with a kind of passage to the digital domain or the counter in the town hall. That's fine in itself. It is entirely in the spirit of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u24	I see an interruption by Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u25	Apparently, the Ministry has an idea of what is going on with these house-to-house magazines and which municipalities are spending money on them, because that is what the explanatory statement says. Mrs Den Boer read that also nicely. The Minister will know that in a year's time. Can the Minister put these data together in a year's time and see what the development is? In the documents, the minister writes that he doesn't expect it to have any influence. He expects the municipalities to keep doing that and use that space for something else, for one or the other. In a year's time, will the Minister go and see if that's really true?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u26	An evaluation provision has now been introduced into the law in response to or following questions from Mrs Den Boer. As far as I am concerned, this evaluation clause is not restrictive ex ante. It can take a broad look at the consequences for all the channels involved. There's no limit. That's not written down. If you really want to know what the effects are, I think it's good to measure that. That is what the law provides for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u27	Mr Van Raak, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u28	That's fine if the Minister here promises to include that in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u29	I can promise, but the law provides for an evaluation after five years. I admit that, but not after one year, as Mr Van Raak asks, but after five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u30	Mr Van Raak is satisfied with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u31	Thank you. The same goes, of course, for Mrs Den Boer's question about the consequences. We all have assumptions, but of course we're not sure what's gonna happen to those house-to-house magazines. It is a gradual development, which also has to do with the fact that society, if you see it in ten years' time, is much more digitized than it is now. I am convinced that there will always be a group that needs help and support. For this we have set up the Digital Government Information Points in the various libraries. I was with the king last week in one of those libraries. We have talked to people who use it, and we saw that it really provides a great need. People are coming back. And people who have learned something there will volunteer to help others again. It is actually a very nice system, which provides for that human contact that many citizens need. There are many citizens who get a little uncomfortable when only communicating via the digital way. Such a Digital Government Information Point can also help people who are less digitally skilled, and they are still there. The trend is very clear that we are getting more and more used to the fact that we do business with the government via e-mail, via social media or via remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u32	In order to evaluate the law five years after its entry into force, we naturally need to monitor the effects of the law. In fact, the Minister has promised that the effects on local media will be looked at. Will the Minister do this in cooperation with his colleague from OCW?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u33	This seems to me to be a valuable addition, because it is partly the responsibility of the Minister for Education and Science. So that seems fine to me. Mrs Den Boer also asked about the system. Isn't it better to use an opt-in system where people choose to use it? Look, this is actually more service-oriented. You get that attention, and if you don't want it anymore, you can unsubscribe. A lot of people are also struggling to sign up for anything at all. I think that for the low-threshold and accessibility, such an attention is more low-threshold than an opt-in. The effect is the same, because you keep directing what you want or don't want to receive. Mrs Den Boer also asked how many e-mails that attention amounts to. That, of course, depends a bit on the situation. Where do you live? What's going on in your neighborhood? How many permits are granted there? But it's not gonna be spam. We now assume, for example, that you receive such an e-mail once a month. In itself, that is very service-oriented, because you no longer need to check everything. You just get it through your e-mail and if you think "I'm gonna do some more research" or "I'm interested in it," you can also get the file. Mrs Den Boer asked how local media could be supported. The bill does not address a limitation of publications in a paper medium. Well, that's for sure. Municipalities also retain the financial means to publish, in addition to that electronic publication, in magazines and other media. I welcome the fact that municipalities are also seriously looking at opportunities to support local media. That can be done in the broad. They could be broadcasters. Of course, they can also be magazines, but that can also be done by publishing all kinds of municipal announcements in free home magazines, because you know that this actually reaches everyone. You have to pay to publish in it, but that can be very interesting for municipalities, based on the idea that a municipality wants to be there for every citizen and that it wants to inform as many people as possible. But that depends on the municipality. I don't think we should determine that from the Empire either. We really need to leave that space to the city. The Minister of OCW also invests in local investigative journalism with the resources from the government agreement. But this too can indeed be part of the evaluation that Mrs Den Boer asked for at the time. I thank Mr Bosma for his contribution. Apparently, he has been reminded that he could come here to talk about this important subject. I think I've made it very clear that this doesn't change anything. In fact, this should actually be a better service for the citizen in the movement between the citizen and the municipality. This is just important for everything that happens in an environment that is quite complex and where more and more information is available. That information is sometimes a mess for citizens and a maze if they want to find out something. I think that the resources used for this are very good. When people say, "I don't want to," that's fine. You can still go to the Digital Government Information Point or to the City Hall to get that information. Mr Bosma had also asked whether this IT project would not end in a fiasco. Look, one of the lessons from the Elias Commission is that you have to rebuild IT architecture step by step. We don't start from scratch, because we work on the basis of existing facilities. That is what we are building on, and that is a continuous process of innovation. That in itself is not a special approach, because that is actually an approach that makes IT projects clear and manageable. After all, it goes one step at a time. This also fits in with the development of digitalisation, because you can see that it is not static. Every year there are new wishes and what we are discussing now, we thought impossible five years ago. This is, of course, also a consequence of the developments in digitalisation. I am still using the report of the Elias committee on many occasions, and I will certainly allow the lessons from it to apply to this project as well. Then Mr Van Raak had the question of how we are going to monitor it, but I answered that question. He was satisfied with that. At least that's how he made it seem. Mr. Chairman. I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u34	That'll prove it. Let me see if there is still a need for a second deadline, but first of all an interruption by Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u35	In any case, Mr Van Raak and the Minister answered part of my question. The effectiveness and effectiveness of the law will be reviewed in five years' time. My question was whether we would only look at how effective and effective these electronic publications are after the introduction of this Electronic Publications Act or whether we would also look at the other channels that are always mentioned in the documents. In the debate with Mr Van Raak it was stated that in five years' time the Minister will look at the funding flows to local home newspapers, local media, but of course there are many more alternative channels. The question is whether they will also be included in that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u36	In an evaluation, you always look at what went right and wrong and what you can learn from it before this law. I would therefore not like to impose any restrictions on this evaluation in advance. The provisions in Article 13.0, which were introduced by Mrs Den Boer's first letter of amendment, offer the possibility of limiting them at the moment. In order to carry out that evaluation on the basis of the criteria and wishes which would then be desirable. So I don't think that's a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u37	That sounds good. Mr Van Raak has just mentioned one criterion, namely local media. I do think it is important, before we develop that digital side, to perhaps look at even more, because there are other alternative channels besides local media. I am thinking, for example, of letters that municipalities send to residents. Would they be included in that evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u38	No, because this law sees electronic publications. Letters sent by municipalities to their citizens is a very different domain. That's not what we're talking about here. That evaluation should be carried out within the framework of this law, the domain of this law. Anything can be done in there, and even things that we do not yet know will be developed in the coming years can be evaluated. You can still do that. So I would not like to impose any advance or limitation on that evaluation. It can take place in full width within the domain of the law. I think that's fine, but of course we're not going to evaluate any cases that this law isn't about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u39	In addition to local media, are there any other alternative channels to come up with before we continue, which we would also like to evaluate? Or does the minister say that the local media are the only alternative channels that he can already say he wants to look at in five years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u40	Mr Middendorp is now trying twice to suggest that I want a restriction. I'm not imposing any restrictions. I am just saying that we need to evaluate on the basis of what is then, within the domain of the law. Local media can play a role in this and perhaps other elements. It's all possible. I'd say as broad as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u41	Thank you. Then Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u42	The Minister answered my question as to how many e-mails or messages we can receive. He said that it depends a little on the congregation, if I understood him correctly. At least I don't want to be snowed under. I'm trying to imagine it from a citizen's perspective. This citizen, of course, is keen to be informed, even in advance, which is wonderful, and the purpose of this law, but does not want to be snowed under. Does it matter, for example, whether I live in Rotterdam or in another municipality, such as the Bar municipality? Rotterdam, for example, is ten times the size of the Hoeksche Waard. What difference does it make to the citizen himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u43	In reply to Mrs De Boer's question, I said that I did not report it and that it depends on where you live. I didn't mean so much as which municipality you live in, but whether you live in an area where three building permits are granted every week in your immediate vicinity, which you have indicated yourself, or in an area where hardly anything ever happens. Depends on how many e-mails you get. I'd say the number of e-mails you get isn't that relevant. What is relevant is that you can indicate which domains you want to be informed about and that will happen. If you finally think "I'm tired of it and I don't want that information anymore," you can turn it off, of course. Then what we get is the situation with the analogue methods: if you don't read the newspaper, you don't know what's going on. So I think this digital method is much more interesting, especially with that attention, but the citizen always has the opportunity to unsubscribe. After all, you may live in an area where a lot is happening and you do not find it interesting. Then you can turn it off. So you can't say in general terms how many emails people are going to get.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u44	Thank you. Then I think we have come to the end of the first-term response. I've just determined that. Is there still a need for a second term? I'll take a look at the members. That is not the case. This brings us to the end of the treatment of the Electronic Publications Act. The amendment has been judged by the Chamber. I don't think I'd reported that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-57.u45	The law, but also the amendment, will be voted on next Tuesday.
