ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on rising housing costs for tenants. I welcome once again the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA as the first speaker and applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason why I have requested this debate, with the support of the House of Representatives, is that I think that attention to the problems of tenants in the House of Representatives is under-exposed. Tenants have huge problems in getting the rent. Over the past few weeks, several studies have shown that tenants can barely make ends meet. Investors take over cities and ask for higher rents, and there are far too few social rentals, which keeps the waiting lists increasing. Mr. Chairman. We want to show you an example today, and I have just put it online about the impact of the cabinet's intentions on tenants. The cabinet wants to reduce the accessibility of social housing to €35,000. If you're single, you're less likely to qualify for a social rental, at least that's what the Cabinet wants. What does that mean for a teacher in an elementary school, like Emma 29 years old? She can be viewed on our website; I can recommend it to anyone. Emma lives with her sister now, because she doesn't have a home yet. She pays €1,600 bald rent in the month and wants to finally build her life; she wants to have her own house. She came, and still is, eligible for an affordable social housing. If the cabinet plans continue, this bizarre measure to reduce the accessibility of social housing instead of increasing it, it will no longer be eligible, but it will be at the whims of the free market and will be able to pay €1,000 or more. That can't be on such a salary! People lose 50% or 60% of their income to the rent. If there are too few social housing units, the answer cannot be to reduce the group that can claim it. You'll have to build more social rentals. A cabinet measure that is also taken, reducing the landlord's tax, goes in the right direction in itself, but it is far from enough. EUR 100 million a year sounds like a lot, but if you know that the increase that corporations have to pay next year alone is more, that means that next year there will be less instead of more houses, while the waiting lists are already up to ten years and beyond. How does the Minister view that? How does the Minister intend to remedy the housing shortage for tenants? Mr. Chairman. I come to the wrongs in the free sector. They're huge. In the General Political Reviews, the Asscher/Heerma motion was adopted, in which we said as a Chamber: it must be fined if house milkers break the law. But the people in the free sector who do comply with the law also have a lot of free space. The question is real: should not a form of tenant protection be introduced in the free sector too? There's a lot of ways to do that. Last year, no, earlier this year, I tabled two amendments to regulate rents: no more than 1% above inflation, no more. You'll give tenants security. I have proposed Berlin measures, such as freezing the rent. There are proposals to increase the points system to €1,000. Those are all different methods. You can't enter them all at once, but I think the Minister should do something about this. But it remains for the time being to investigate a very limited part of the housing. That is not a solution to these problems. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister not see that there are a lot of middle incomes nowhere to go, pay themselves all blue or have to go back to their parents because they can't find a rental house? Does the Minister not see that there is a shortage of housing and that people can barely afford to pay for their homes? What is she finally gonna do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. The new numbers on the rental market make us shudder. Almost a quarter of the tenants don't make ends meet. They can't buy food at the end of the month. It's about 800,000 tenants. The Nibud calculated that almost half of the 65+ households have so high housing costs that they can only just pay the basic expenses. The rent of corporation homes is simply too high for many senior citizens. Can the Minister come up with concrete plans for the construction of affordable, life-supporting corporate homes? The housing corporations are the main partners. The one-off 2 billion announced in the throne speech is a cigar from its own box. Housing associations have been paying a landlord's tax since 2013, which amounts to about 2 billion a year. On top of the landlord tax comes the ATAD. My group is going back to the budgetary debates. A poignant symptom of rising housing costs is the increase in the number of homeless people. The National Ombudsman states that many new homeless people have no complex problems, can take good care of themselves, but cannot find affordable housing because they are not there. What's the Minister gonna do about it? During my time as a council member of the municipality of Eindhoven, I have often fooled the number of homeless people myself. It turned out there were far more than the registered number. How reliable is the current registration? What doesn't help is the rules that prevent people from living together or taking in someone who can't find an affordable home. You are cut off on your benefit or your AOW, but living together can also have a lot of benefits, including for society. It reduces the pressure on the housing market. It can counteract loneliness. It can promote longer living at home. It can relieve carers. It can even reduce CO emissions per person. You don't have to heat two, but one living room and you don't have to cook twice, but only once. The number of single seniors has increased in recent years. We expect 1.3 million single senior citizens in 2030. They live on their own until they are old age. Does the Minister intend to conduct an investigation which will weigh all the costs and benefits of living together? I conclude with the intention to bring the income limit for single people for a social home down from €38.000 to €35,000 per year. A person earning €35,000 per year will now depend on the free sector, where a bare rent of €1,000 is not exceptional. At least that is €720, i.e. at least 24% of the income. Compare that with the maximum rent for mayors. They shall pay a maximum of 18% of their gross remuneration. The city's putting the rest of it in there. The mayor of Amsterdam pays only €2,161 per month for her renovated apartment and she earns over €12,000 gross per month. She does have enough money to buy food at the end of the month. Jan Modaal is allowed to pay: how painful is this? Why is the rent rate for mayors lower than for Jan Modaal? For them, the rent ratio sometimes rises to 40%. Why does this 18% limit apply to large-scale earners who are paid generously from taxpayers' money, but not to Jan Modaal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr Nijboer has already mentioned it and Mr Krol has also mentioned it. That's why I feel obliged to respond. It is suggested that the allocation limit would be set at €35,000. But corporations are also given more space. A larger allocation group allows local agreements to allocate homes to people and to make exceptions. Why isn't that enough? That's exactly how you can make local policy. For example, you can assign a home to a teacher in Amsterdam. The picture that is now being sketched is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u6	That is the image that emerges very clearly in all the e-mails we receive. I'm not against local adjustments at all if that's what it takes. You have younger municipalities and older municipalities. There's a lot of things you can do locally better than nationwide. But I would be very welcome if we could also look at this nationally and think of a framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u7	Is it not right that if this freedom is there locally, it is actually intended exactly what you want: that there can be locally assigned to what is needed locally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u8	I can only repeat: yes, but only if there is a framework that we are dealing with locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. In Berlin this year tenants went on the streets massively to demand a freezing of the rents, and successfully. From 2020 the rents will be frozen for five years, even if their property goes into rental again. This example shows: fighting pays off. The same citizens' initiative in that city now advocates the expropriation of real estate companies with over 3,000 homes. Those Mietwahnsinn, these excessive rents, aren't just playing in Berlin. Also in the Netherlands, more and more people are at the financial abyss as a result of the ever-increasing housing costs. We may not find those people in this room so soon. With a salary of over €8,000 per month, you don't feel a rent increase that fast. But hundreds of thousands of people experience every day what the Dutch housing crisis entails. The researchers of the Nibud therefore rang on 13 September, Friday the thirteenth, the alarm clock and not without reason. More than 800,000 households, a quarter of all tenants in the Netherlands, pay housing costs that are so high that they have been financially hit. Too often they no longer have room for decent living. They spend less money on leisure time, but also on transportation, subscriptions, clothing and personal care. If tenants get too high housing costs, it also turns out that they spend less on basic expenses such as food. A single tenant with a high burden of living has a budget deficit in 70% of the cases. These deficits are simply no longer manageable. Unexpected expenses force those tenants to borrow or are simply no longer possible. 50% of the tenants are struggling to make ends meet. 30% are late payments. We're really dealing with a major crisis here. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to respond to this Nibud investigation and whether she is prepared to speed up the revision of the cabinet's plans, given the seriousness of the situation. Mr. Chairman. The situation is very serious for many people. The question is really: how does this minister intend to be remembered, as the Minister of Housing Market Studies, as the Minister who started to ensure good, affordable housing again, or as the Minister who has messed around a bit with some research, some agreements and what arrangements? Mr. Chairman. Then we look at the measures the cabinet wants to take. On the contrary, some of the measures they want to take to increase affordability are making people even more vulnerable. I can see Mr Ronnes getting up. Yes, Mr. Ronnes, you're making it even harder for single people to rent a social rental house. You will make sure that older people with AOW and a small pension pay even more rent soon, because they will be fined for living crookedly while they are already caught in the Millions Note. Mr. Chairman. It is not a natural circumstance that more and more people in rental homes have great difficulty getting around. It's the result of political choices. A capitalist housing policy increased rental prices by 18.5% between 2013 and 2018. Since 1970 the cost of housing has increased twice as much as the rents. My question is, what are we gonna do? Are we really going to invest in the social sector so that there is an affordable rental for more people? Why don't we just freeze the rents like in Berlin for five years? Why don't we raise the liberalisation limit to €1,000, so that a lot of homes fall directly into rent? Why not go after bad pawnshops? Where are the higher fines? Mr. Chairman. It's time for a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, the Nibud was the alarm clock. A quarter of the tenants, some 800,000 households have too high housing costs. According to the Nibud, 50% of the tenants are struggling to make ends meet and some 30% are late payments. This is mainly about tenants in the social sector. That's serious, very serious. Of course, these financial problems did not arise yesterday, nor did they occur last week or last month. It's a pile-up. They are the result of years of policy. The tenants have been squeezed for years and left to their fate for years. The rents rise and rise, every year. This year 2019 the rent in the corporation sector increased by an average of 2%. That's more than last year. And every time the minister talks: yes, but that is a limited increase in rent. No, rent increase is rent increase and it's time for rent reduction. Is the Minister finally gonna take care of that? But there are also other fixed loads that go up. Take the power bill now. This is also mentioned by Aedes as an important part of these rising housing costs. This year, 2019, that energy bill went up by an average of €334 according to the CBS. That's huge. And now the cabinet promises that in the coming year, 2020, the energy bill will go down by about €100. Last Tuesday, the PVV asked oral questions about this to the State Secretary of EZK, because of that €100 discount a cigar from its own box. That's the way it is with this cabinet every time. Every time everything is promised and rarely is kept. What is this cabinet doing about these rising housing costs? Then what does this minister do for the tenants? Yes, the Minister says, there must be more affordable housing. She also promised more middle-rental homes. Since her arrival, the Minister has constantly said: yes, we need to speed up housing. These are all statements that fall into the category "hollow phrases and open doors" because now, two and a half years later, nothing has changed. Those affordable properties, those mid-rentals, where are they? They're not here! And has the housing been accelerated? No, you don't. The number of building permits issued by municipalities is not increasing, but decreasing. Municipalities mainly want to build inner city, which is generally more expensive and takes longer than outlying buildings. Apartments must also be delivered without gas, which is easily €25,000 more expensive than when a gas connection is chosen. And then we are not even talking about the consequences of nitrogen waste on housing. Mr. Chairman. I told you, where are they, these affordable properties? This debate is about the increasing burden on tenants. And what the hell is this minister doing about that? Yeah, a lot of talking, a lot of consulting, a lot of meetings. There's a housing calendar. There are some residential deals being made here and there. And then you have nothing, because it's all very little. Stop talking, finally put the regions and the municipalities to work. Go build. Lower the rents. Lower the energy bill, as the cabinet itself promised. And stop making me look expensive. That's really helpful for tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Koerhuis on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. After I started my first job fifteen years ago, I bought a cottage pretty soon. I wasn't unique in that. A lot of my peers did the same thing. Nowadays it's not that easy anymore. It's gotten harder to buy a house. Many starters are therefore dependent on a rental house. Today we have a debate on an article by the CBS entitled "Housing expenses relative to income do not increase further'. The CBS writes that the rents have increased, but not in relation to the income. The housing quote for tenants has remained the same. The CBS indicates that this is the case, among other things, because the rental fee has had a lowering effect for a particular group. That is nice for that group, but we must also stand up for the middle groups, for the people who cannot buy a house and for whom the rents are too high. Often these are also starters. For this group we have to do one thing mostly: build, build, build. That building is not self-evident. We see that this year's new production will remain the same and will be even lower next year. This is because there are too high demands on percentages of urban buildings, percentages of social housing and sustainability. We have to let go of these demands. We need to give builders room and not impose too high demands. And we need to come up with a solution to the nitrogen problem so that builders can do exactly what is needed: build, build, build. Because if we build more, the supply increases and the price gets lower. That is why I am also pleased that we, as a coalition, are going to provide a housing boost of EUR 1 billion. When will the effect of the housing impulse come to the Chamber, I ask the Minister. Mr President, I see that it is getting a bit crowded with the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u15	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr Koerhuis talks about the fact that we have to drop strange sustainability requirements, because otherwise there will be no affordable construction. But I wonder how Mr Koerhuis looks at the affordability for the resident, who ultimately has to live in that house and who has to cough up the energy costs of a poorly isolated house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u17	We are talking about municipalities that build too high percentages of inner city buildings, too high percentages of social housing and sustainability requirements. There are, of course, national requirements, but there are also municipalities that are still doing so. An example that has been mentioned here is Amsterdam. There it is said: no, what we have agreed on nationally in terms of sustainability is not enough; we want more. That lake is often very expensive. We are having a debate today on high housing costs. In the end, this translates into high housing costs. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u18	High charges for who? The developer has to try a little harder, but the resident is eventually in a well-insulated, comfortable home that is very cheap in terms of energy costs. Then Mr Koerhuis can say that it is more expensive to build this property and that there is less profit for the developer, but the profit of a sustainable home is for a resident.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u19	D66 knows as well as the VVD that it will be passed on if more costs are laid down with a developer. They are passed on to the corporation and they pass it on to the tenant. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u20	This time I had to wait a minute for Mr Koerhuis to say: build, build, build. There first came an interesting private history of Mr Koerhuis. Mr Koerhuis also referred to the PAS and the nitrogen problems we have. I would like to hear from Mr Koerhuis how he sees this 'building, building, building', which he always calls here, in relation to the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u21	The VVD naturally believes that the nitrogen problem needs to be solved. Yesterday, the report was presented. A round table with the committee is scheduled for next week in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u22	I would therefore like to raise it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u23	Exactly. You said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr President, I would like to ask you about this, and I would like to explain why. Mr Koerhuis attacks me permanently by saying: GroenLinks does not want to build in the green; there will be no extra housing through GroenLinks. There are enormous natural problems in the Netherlands. There can't be built now because nature is so under pressure because of the PAS-pronunciation. Then I ask the spokesperson to live in the VVD: is the VVD willing, for example, to cut down livestock or lower speed, to ensure that there can be built?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u25	I understand everything has to do with everything. There is indeed a report on nitrogen. The whole Chamber wants to debate this. So I would have the discussion where it belongs and also when there is a cabinet response. Today we're talking about living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u27	Right? Yes. We're talking about rising housing costs. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr Koerhuis says "build, build, build." In the meantime, we can dream about that little wiggle. He's been saying it for two and a half years. The question is, what the hell has become of that for the past two and a half years? Because this cabinet has left the housing market hugely to its fate. The housing shortage is huge, also in the social housing. There's a shortage of 80,000 social rentals. You give homes away to status holders. There's no building. Municipalities are having trouble issuing permits. This cabinet only wants to build in the inner city. You raise the rents all the time. You're constantly increasing the energy bill. So what the hell did the VVD do for the housing market, which is now such a mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u29	Indeed, I say: we must build, build, build. I actually want to start with the package the cabinet presented on Princess Day. I have already said that I welcome, among other things, the EUR 1 billion housing boost that this cabinet wants to give. I'm happy with more things. But I can anticipate my text or finish that text first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u30	There is a second question from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yeah, about that package of measures. The Minister sent a letter. Can Mr Koerhuis explain what is good about that? Because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u32	Yeah, I'm getting to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u33	One moment. Because next year the housing corporations will get a discount on the landlord's tax of 100 million. The same landlord levy goes up by more than 100 million rising WOZ values. That's not gonna make any sense. I also read that you want to take down crooks with even more rent increase. That's what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u34	These aren't questions at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u35	You want to lower the maximum income limit from €38.000 to €35,000. This means that even fewer people are eligible for social housing. On paper, waiting lists may be shorter, but in practice people will depend on an even more expensive home in the free sector. So what's so good about that? What does the Cabinet do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u36	As I was just saying, I'll drop by the Princess Day package. On one point, I would like to respond. I thought the PVV was a party for the people. I do hear them arguing very much for a reduction in the landlord's tax and for corporations. Is the PVV for the people or for large, wealthy corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u37	I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u38	No, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u39	I think corporations are all of us and they're building for the people. We do believe that their housing costs should be reduced and that more needs to be built. That's a lot different from what the VVD says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u40	No, I agree with all of that. But that's different from abolishing the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u41	The VVD comes here to tackle crooked housing and rent increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u42	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u43	Every year the rent goes up. Since Rutte II, the rents in the corporation sector have increased by about 20%. Is that social, Mr. Koerhuis? Is that what the VVD does? Are you there for the people? Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u44	I suggest that you proceed, because you announce that you will answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u45	Yeah, well, it went through the chairman. The PVV addressed me a few times with "you this, you that." It is a pity that the PVV is turning away from the abolition of the landlord's tax, because that is what the PVV is for. It's in favour of abolishing the landlord's tax. Then I hear nice stories about lower charges for tenants. Let's look at that instead of landlords.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u46	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. Building more homes is ultimately the only real solution. But I also understand that starters who can't buy a house now have nothing to do with that. That's why we need to place a large number of flex houses, at least 15,000 next year. It's a good thing we're working on this as a coalition. Flex residences are fiscally stimulated, and the minister will encourage concrete flex housing projects with municipalities and provinces. Mr. Chairman. In addition to building more homes and placing more flex houses, we also need to make more social rental homes available for starters by allowing crooked residents to flow through. Some starters earn just too much for a social rental house, but there are also starters who are entitled to a social rental house and often have to deal with too long a waiting list. That's mostly because of crooked people. There are 110,000 people waiting throughout the Netherlands, while at the same time there are 244,000 high-income skews. If these 244,000 crooked residents continue to flow, there will be no waiting lists. It is a good thing that we, as a coalition, are working on this as well: high incomes in social housing are going to pay their maximum rent in faster steps in order to promote the flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u48	If Mr. Koerhuis is going to make some small amounts, beware. He's really freaking out right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u49	I didn't make this sum. This is from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u50	Well, I'll find out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u51	This was in the State of Housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u52	I am going to quietly ask Mr Koerhuis a question, because he is really making it crazy. He also says that there are far fewer houses being built than the number of houses needed. There is a housing shortage in the Netherlands. There are long waiting lists. People pay an incredibly large part of their income in rent. That is simply a fact; that is not at all under discussion. Mr Koerhuis says: I have found the guilty; those are the crooked people and if they all leave... But they can't go anywhere. They are very often AOWs with a very limited income. They cannot go anywhere, but Mr Koerhuis says: they are to blame and if they simply leave, the problem is solved. There's just 1 million houses too few, isn't there? Then you can't say to those people, mostly older people, "Move away; see where you're going and look at it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u53	I endorse this like no other. I am at the forefront of this: there are too few homes, we are now short on nearly 300,000 homes and we have 1 million homes to build. That's exactly what I agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u54	We agree on that. We also note that the cabinet is constantly saying that it is going to build 75,000 homes, but that this is not being made true. We agree on that, but you said just now: the problem is solved if those crooked people, the people with a slightly higher income, all leave and move. There are no millionaires in social housing. You can't find them anywhere in there. Millionaires just live neatly in Wassenaar and Bloemendaal and nearby. They don't live in social housing. Those people can't go anywhere. They are also allowed to tap €1,000 per month, but where should they go? Isn't it an embarrassment for the country's biggest government party to blame those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u55	We don't have enough homes. If Mr Nijboer talks about skews, we come to this discussion: do we have too few properties or do we have too few social rentals? I'm afraid I'm gonna have to argue with you. I think this country has far too few properties. The Minister himself showed in the People's Housing State that there are 110,000 people waiting for a social rental house and there are 244,000 crooked people with a high income. The VVD and the PvdA therefore agree: there is a shortage of homes. Unfortunately, what we do not agree on is that the PvdA in the left-wing municipalities in which it sits imposes unreasonable demands on builders and that the construction does not really come off the ground there, but okay. The next point is what we really lack in this country. Are those social rentals, residential properties or middle-rental housing? The Minister's figures show that the main problem in this country is a shortage of middle-rental housing and housing. So we have to build it in particular, but that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u56	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. We have a huge deficit in all segments in the Netherlands. There are not enough social rentals, because there are huge waiting lists. There are too few properties in the category from €700 to €1,000. The amounts in the free sector are often above them. And there are too few properties. Mr Koerhuis is shifting the blackbird to corporations and to people who have been living in a rented house for years and cannot do anything about it. He blames them for the problems he doesn't solve himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u58	If I'm allowed to respond to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u59	Yeah, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u60	Again, Mr Nijboer is confusing two things. Once again, for the third or fourth time, I propose that he read the State of Housing. Then he sees that at the moment there is no shortage of social housing, but of middle-rental housing and that we have to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yet another attempt, although it seems to me to be very difficult with Mr Koerhuis. There's been a housing crisis. That's because of political failure. Suppose you're an AOW'er with a small pension and maybe for 40 years you've been living in a social housing facility, that you'd like to live smaller, but there's no house available. And you also see a minus in the purchasing power of the cabinet and there are pension discounts coming up. And then you say here also very nicely: an income-dependent rent increase. People with AOW and a supplementary pension in a social housing unit are thus three times in the minus. They can't go anywhere, and they're gonna get that income-dependent rent increase. Don't you think that's a little unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u62	No, the SP is putting words in my mouth here. I didn't say we're just gonna do that. I said we're gonna do that to high-income crooked people. That's what I said. So we don't just do that. I also said that we should build, especially, middle-rental houses and residential properties. The Minister's figures show that there is a shortage of them in particular. Mrs Beckerman is also calling in the AOW's. We've talked about senior homes before. There is also a large shortage of senior residences in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u63	Mr. Koerhuis admits it himself. There's a big shortage, due to political failure. A housing crisis is not some kind of natural disaster, but political failure. He's not answering my question. Can people who, according to Mr Koerhuis's definitions, are crooked count on them not getting that extra fine and even higher rent? And to what income would Mr Koerhuis want to exempt people from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u64	Again, the SP can count on us to make social housing available to people they really need. It's kind of the reverse world that the SP is standing up here for high-income people. I don't quite understand that. That people with high incomes can stay in a social housing unit, I don't quite understand. I propose that we let these people flow, so that people with low incomes enter a social housing unit, and now the SP, the Socialist Party, says: no, no, no, we have to stand up for those people with high incomes; we have to leave them in a social housing unit. I just don't understand it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u65	Well, then we'll ask Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u66	In my view, Mr Koerhuis is very anxious not to answer the question. Get those so-called crooked citizens, as you call them...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, high-income people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u69	This also applies to people with AOW and a supplementary pension. Those aren't the millionaires, and those aren't the high incomes. Those people get extra rent increases when they can't go anywhere. Yes, we are in favour of a corporate sector in which low-income people and middle-income people can live. We are in favour of a large corporation sector. We want to stop this breakdown of you, which has led to a housing crisis. And that indeed calls for a much broader social sector, because everyone should have the right to a good and affordable home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u70	This wasn't a question anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u71	Well, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yes. It was the position of the SP. Mr. Chairman. Besides the crooked, there is another group that contributes to waiting lists. Those are the deniers. Many people sign up passively for a social housing, while they have no need to take up a social housing. These refusers keep places occupied by people who do need a social housing right away. It also ensures that waiting lists become unnecessarily long. That's what makes people despondent. That is not necessary and that is not desirable. Does the Minister consider this to be a problem? What is the Minister prepared to do about this? Is it possible to remove the passive tenderers, those who refuse to live, from the list? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Mr President, I will conclude. There are problems in the housing market. We have to come up with solutions for this, and we are doing so, with the housing impulse, the stimulation of flex homes and the tackling of skews. We are not there yet, but they are several good steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u73	I do not quite understand Mr Koerhuis' problem with people who are passively registered. I've been on a waiting list for about nine years myself. I went to college in Eindhoven and I thought, well, I might want to live here later. So I was standing there nicely registered. I never responded to a place until I needed one, so I never replaced anyone. So what exactly is the problem with those passive tenderers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u74	I'm worried about long waiting lists. Those waiting lists are, among other things, so long because of the situation you're sketching. You had registered in Eindhoven with the idea that one day, in the future, I might need a social rental house. That makes waiting lists long. And I'm sorry for the people who really need a place to live.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u75	But when someone with a shorter waiting time responds, while someone with a longer waiting time does not respond, the person with the shorter waiting time simply gets the home. So the problem isn't that someone's on it any longer. The problem is that there are too few homes and people have to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u76	No, no, no. The problem is that there are a lot of people on the waiting list. You'd only need one apartment, and right before you start responding, there's someone who's been on the waiting list passively for ten years and thinks, "I want him now." He'll respond, and whoever needs the apartment now won't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u77	I know the VVD as a party that wants to enforce the law; very important. Does the VVD also think that we should maintain when it comes to too high rents and too high rent increases? Do we have to enforce the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u78	When you rent a house or a car, you meet between tenant and landlord. There is no legal rate, for example, if you rent a car. It is true that a house and a car must be safe. That is important and we must enforce the law strictly, but if anyone else hires or buys something, it is called freedom of contract in this country. You can just agree to that, but it has to be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u79	I think we have agreed a number of rules in this country, including to protect tenants, but those rules are not always known to them. As a result, rents are too high and rent increases are too high. Again, my question: are we going to enforce the rules here too, and will we enable the tenants to do so by giving more insight into how the price is achieved so that they can ring the bell?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u80	This sounds nice and sympathetic but you are actually turning people's eyes, because what will happen if a rental house is to be offered below cost? What does the Christian Union think will happen? Then it won't be a rental house anymore, but then it will be sold and the tenants will have an even bigger problem. I don't think that's what the Christian Union wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mr Nijboer, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u82	I thought that the VVD as a group would be well aware of the rental legislation and so on by now, but it does not yet appear to be the case. We just have a law that protects tenants from too high rents, don't we? If that law is broken, Mr Koerhuis cannot say with dry eyes to Mrs Dik-Faber: we do not care, that is their problem. Otherwise, we'd have to change the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr. Nijboer is talking about the points system for rentals, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u84	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u85	Then we understand each other. That's what the Rent Commission is for. He'll see to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u86	Yeah, but nothing else is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u87	Isn't that all that's gonna happen? You're saying the Rent Commission doesn't do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u88	There's no punishment, no fine, nothing, in the event of a violation. Mr President, I would like to move on to another point. The title of this debate is: rising housing costs for tenants. I have heard a great deal from Mr Koerhuis about start-ups and I do not know what. I have heard a few comments about which leads to higher rents, like the crooked tenants. The people on the waiting list need to be bullied away, because that seems to solve this problem. Does Mr Koerhuis, or the VVD at all, think that there is a problem in the Netherlands with regard to the rents that the low and middle incomes have to pay? Do you think that's a social problem, or do you think everyone's talking in the air?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u89	Many questions from Mr Nijboer. First of all, he talks about the title of the debate. He has requested this debate himself. I would remind him that the title of the article of the CBS he quoted was that the housing costs in relation to income have not increased further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u90	He doesn't mean it literally, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u91	I have no idea. He quotes that title, so I'll give it to you again. I don't think he's producing the title properly. Housing costs relative to income did not increase further, that was the title.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr President, could you read out the title of the debate? Well, at least that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u94	That there's a social problem, I know better than anyone. I keep bringing up the housing shortage. I say like no other: we have to build, build, build. We have to let go of the demands for builders so that we can actually build. These requirements have unnecessarily imposed your lectures in the municipalities. So I can also ask the question: does the Labour Party think there is a social problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u95	I just asked a question. The title of this debate is: rising housing costs for tenants. Does the VVD think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u96	The VVD naturally finds increasing burdens a problem, without a doubt. But you shouldn't twist the title. The title of the CBS article on which you have requested this debate is: housing costs do not increase further in relation to income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u97	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this debate is about the rising housing costs of tenants. That's why it's interesting that the Nibud came up with a report a few weeks ago that a quarter of the tenants, 800,000 Dutch, have to pay so much rent that they can't actually make ends meet for the rest of the month, that they actually don't have enough money to live on normally. But let me take a positive look. I found it very positive that this cabinet on Princess Day spoke for the first time about a housing crisis. It's been trending on Twitter for a while, but now it's really recognised that there's a housing crisis. What I find less positive is the letter we received from the cabinet the same morning. I believe that the coalition parties have long met on the measures to be proposed to deal with this housing crisis. They have already been mentioned by a number of groups; I will also mention a number of them. The WOZ is going to count a little less, but that is probably only going to make a difference in the Amsterdam that Mr Koerhuis loved. The income limits are indeed reduced for single-person households, which makes it less easy for them to get a rental house. In my view, in another debate, we agreed that we should have mixed neighbourhoods, where not only the most vulnerable people live together. So I don't get it that well. I am pleased that the cabinet and the coalition recognise that there is a housing crisis, but the measures that I saw actually come to the Chamber after two years of investigations and discussions have taken place do not show that the urgency of the crisis is fully understood. We have often talked here about an emergency button to make sure that the rents do not rise any further. I don't see him anywhere. Where did the emergency button go? I'd like to ask the Minister. Could it also indicate when it will send the measures mentioned in the letter to the Chamber in the form of legislative proposals? Right now, we don't have a clear picture of that. Another question to the Minister is when we get a cabinet response to our initiative paper Market operation from the rental sector, which we submitted in March, six months ago. We have made all kinds of proposals in this regard, which I would very much like to have a debate in the Chamber. I find it difficult: do I have to mention it again here, or do I, hopefully soon, do I, if we have a separate debate on it? I look forward to the Minister's response to that. I would like to highlight two things specifically, because they are more topical than ever. The first is about the landlord's tax. Today, on Twitter and now on the news sites, a lot of housing corporations share their account or their payment of the landlord's tax. They also link it to how many social housing they could build for the money they now have to transfer to Minister Hoekstra and Minister Ollongren. I'd like to know from the Home Secretary if she doesn't get a little abdominal pain when she reads the messages. It is responsible for increasing the number of dwellings.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At the same time, it imposes a levy of 1.7 billion on housing corporations, which will enable them to build much less housing. Doesn't the Minister think that's weird? Doesn't the Minister find it strange that we in this country seem to find it normal that the most vulnerable people, at least the corporations that care for their homes, should make a contribution to that and not others? I would also very much like a response from the Minister to extending the housing valuation system to €1,300, which we propose. That's really effective to protect the rents. A final remark, which is also in line with the Nibud report. It's about the linking of housing costs to income. Is the Minister willing to see if you can have a maximum living burden based on your income? In our view, this is very much needed because a lot of people simply do not like it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u99	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. In the Throne speech it was already mentioned: purchasing power plates and averages are very beautiful, but for many people they mean very little. So we see that the rent ratio is now stable, and that is positive. But the burden on tenants is increasing and that is why we need to talk about building more homes here, sharing scarcity fairly, combating abuses and excesses and reducing energy costs for tenants. When we talk about building more homes, there is, of course, the building agenda with a high ambition of 75,000 homes per year. That is very nice and we see that the numbers are increasing, so more homes are being built every year. That's a good thing. With Princess Day, 2 billion a year is allocated to housing, and we are also pleased with that. When it comes to scarcity, we have to distribute it fairly. Therefore, housing corporations can be given more space to deliver customised housing assignments where necessary. We believe that this can be a very nice solution to give some households more room at tighter times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mrs Van Eijs talks about the 2 billion made available on Princess Day. We are going to talk about the one billion, which can indeed help. The other billion is in fact ten times a discount of 100 million on the landlord's tax, while the corporations are making very clear towards me and, I presume, towards you, too, that they are still going to pay more de facto per year. Don't you think that's a cigar from your own box?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u102	It is true that the landlord's tax is levied by the housing corporations. So if it reduces, that doesn't mean much if the housing costs continue to rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u103	I may need to ask my question more clearly. The landlord's tax is indeed levied by housing corporations. If you have to pay 100 million less, you have to pay less. But because of the simultaneously rising WZ value, corporate tax and the ATAD Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, you have undoubtedly also sent the overviews of them de facto going to pay not less per year but hundreds of millions more. Don't you find that uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u104	I don't think it's ever nice when people start paying more taxes, but in the end, the question is what do you do about it as a government. One billion is now being released to build additional homes. It could have been chosen not to. It has been chosen to charge up to 1 billion less in landlord tax so that there is more space to build homes. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about various measures to share the scarcity fairly. Households with higher incomes are going to pay more. So the skewer doesn't have to be evicted from his home and can just stay there, but is asked to make a larger contribution so that the burden of others can remain lower again. Expensive houses in the neighborhood are no longer an obstacle to affordable rent. The WZ value still counts for a maximum of 33%. It is also important to give start-ups a fair chance against investors. That's why we got a letter from Secretary of State Menno Snel about the treatment in box 3. I will not go into too much detail because it is fiscally complicated. The investigation of lower borrowing capacity for buy-to-let homes and the investigation of lower transfer tax for start-ups will also contribute to that fair opportunity vis-à-vis investors. The Minister indicated that he would be able to inform us about this in October. Can the Minister state what progress has been made on the development of these measures? I think this is all very nice measures, and I welcome them, but I have also spent the last few months trying to create an emergency button to counter disproportionately high rents. Unfortunately, the scarcity of housing remains for a while, but meanwhile, bad landlords are struggling with usury rents and asshole behavior. I understand that this matter is complex, but I was wondering if the Minister could tell us what is going on with the development of this emergency button? And shouldn't we also look at the maximisation of rent increases, so that the effect isn't destroyed after a year? Another button we can turn on is the energy load. Less gas fired, less money tapped. A real no-regret measure is to isolate, but to tenants with only glass and without good insulation the website of the Empire says: turn the stove up a bit. Most subsidies are for property owners or landlords, while building wall insulation is already earned after three years and there are also opportunities for tenants locally, in Amsterdam and Leiden, for example. Why is there no national subsidy for tenants who do not want to wait for their landlord with sustainability measures? The Climate Agreement agreed that the taxation of gas should be increased and that it should be reduced on electricity. All new buildings become gasless and more gaps go off the gas. This is how we achieve the key climate targets by 2030. It was also agreed in the Climate Agreement that the right of initiative for tenants to get rid of the gas would be increased. However, tenants are still dependent on investments made by the landlord or corporation. How can tenants enforce sustainability of their property with their landlords and how can we ensure that sustainability for tenants will be cost-neutral or even advantageous? Because then we'll get everyone involved in making our homes more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u105	A fine speech by Mrs Van Eijs on sustainability. I think Mrs Van Eijs is right. There are a lot of tenants in a poorly isolated house. By increasing the taxes of the cabinet they pay a towering energy bill and they can indeed hardly enforce sustainability. But isn't it true that the pot for sustainability for social housing is empty and that there is no money available from the cabinet for these tenants at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u106	In my opinion, housing corporations can also simply choose to pay for part of the sustainability themselves. I have to say that I do not know the current state of this subsidy, but I think it is good that this sustainability can continue, because housing corporations are also being counted on as a start-up engine for sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u107	I'll help Mrs. Van Eijs. That pot's empty. You give back $100 million, but you're asking for extra taxes on the corporations. You ask them to build, build and build, you ask them to keep the rents affordable, and you ask them to make them more sustainable. Isn't it time to make sure that extra money comes from the cabinet? 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna be standing here giving away a very, very, very, very free beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u108	I don't think I'm giving anything away. I state that it is important for the tenant that his house is isolated when the gas price rises. This seems to me to be the case for private landlords, but also for housing corporations. A lot of sustainability measures deserve to be taken back. They're perfectly manageable without subsidies. Then there are also a lot of measures to be taken, especially for those homes that are most isolated, because the first piece really gets money right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u109	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u110	But, Mrs Van Eijs, you support a cabinet that first increases the energy bill, which then increases taxes on corporations and, therefore, twice causes tenants to get into trouble, namely by increasing energy bills and rising housing costs. And then you say: yes, but they can make things more sustainable. You say that while the pot your cabinet had before was empty. If you really mean what you're saying, do you have to make sure that there's a lot more money to make it more sustainable? 'Cause those corporations you can see everywhere are stuck by the cabinet. They all share it on Twitter today. The money goes to the state treasury; you have made up all the money and then you say: but it's crazy that they don't spend money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u111	I think it's crazy if housing corporations don't spend money on sustainability. Many sustainability measures can be recovered within a number of years. There you can easily share the profits between housing corporation and tenant. I've worked in that business myself for a long time. When housing corporations say "there's really nothing to do," that's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u112	A fine speech by Mrs Van Eijs, especially when it comes to giving more opportunities to tenants to invest in their homes. I have a question about the affordability and availability of homes. We're both worried about the lower middle rent. It's not available enough. We would both like to see housing corporations get more opportunities in this. The Court has ruled on the abolition of the market test. I think D66 co-signed it or supported it. How do you stand on this file now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u113	I think housing corporations alongside other investors have a very important task to ensure affordable middle rent. I have always argued for a fair playing field, in which housing corporations, for example, can build very nice mixed complexes with middle rental homes and social rental homes. It is also possible for a pension fund or another investor to build middle-rent housing. As far as I'm concerned, it's both possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u114	On paper it is both necessary, but I also know that the existing situation will continue if we do not radically abolish that market test, including market exploration. Housing corporations do not take their turn and market players do not take their responsibilities. I urge D66 to take a good look at the market test, including market exploration, and really remove all obstacles to housing corporations to start building.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u115	If there are obstacles that prevent housing corporations from building middle-rentals, while market players do not, then we should indeed look very closely at them, because that is not the intention. The intention is to have a fair playing field. If a market participant doesn't build middle-rent housing, then a housing corporation should be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u116	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. Excuse me, Mr. Nijboer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u117	I didn't know her speech was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u118	Yes, Mrs. Van Eijs was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u119	I think I'll wait till the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u120	She was already done. Pay attention!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u121	You're right, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for D66 about single people. There are more and more of them, while the cabinet wants to make the claim to a social housing more difficult. If you earn €36.000, €37.000 per year, you can earn teachers at a primary school that, for example, you can now get a social rental house, but you won't be able to do that anymore. How does Mrs Van Eijs feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u122	The poignant thing about trying to get hold of or assign a social housing unit is that there are too few. That's why there's waiting lists. If you were to give someone with a higher income access to a social housing, you would de facto exclude someone with a lower income. We've made a choice. Who can best carry that higher rent? That is the single person without children, and that is not the family with an income that is perhaps slightly higher, but also with much higher burdens. That's why the division is in there. That teacher may have to look for another affordable rental house, but the teacher who may be working part-time or who has a disability will receive that apartment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u123	It's not like there's more affordable homes for teachers all at once. No, the teacher is dependent on the free sector and has to live with the parents again. In my story, it's a woman moving in with her sister. That's a problem, isn't it? You'd have to build more social rentals, wouldn't you? Then you shouldn't say: we're going to lower the boundaries and people are going to figure it out? Surely D66 can't come up with that towards those middle incomes, towards those teachers and nurses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u124	I would just as much like to see this scarcity solved in all types of housing: social housing, affordable residential properties, affordable middle housing. We are not discussing this. It's about how you divide the scarcity. You can give access to the single person with that higher income, but that means you're denying someone else access. And that's someone with a lower income. I don't think that's a fair choice either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Nibud sounded the alarm two weeks ago. A quarter of the tenants are financially trapped. Over 800,000 families pay such high housing costs that they do not have enough money to pay any other cost of living. The Nibud does not just say this; they are based on sound research. The Nibud surveys show that more and more tenants are having financial difficulties. 50% have difficulty living, 40% experience financial scarcity and 30% have late payments. The Nibud has the group with the biggest problems well in mind. They're people with social housing and low income. Those families or single people can spend much less on leisure time, transport, contributions and subscriptions. If these people are faced with, for example, care costs or an increasing energy bill, there is also less money spent on, for example, good food. The group is large: 800,000 people trapped by housing costs. They're really stuck, because they can't buy and they can't go to a cheaper place. According to the Nibud, minima cannot pay rent of €607 including rent surcharge. According to the Nibud they can pay up to €425. Would the Minister like to reflect on that? What's her reaction to that conclusion of the Nibud? I also have the question of whether progress is already being made through appropriate allocations. This should prevent tenants from getting into too expensive a house. Last week, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber outlining how the recent 2 billion boost will be used. The cabinet takes a package of measures to address the various aspects of housing shortage. That's good. With the EUR 2 billion housing programme, more affordable housing can be built more quickly. Corporations receive, among other things, an extra EUR 1 billion to spend on housing. But in the letter, the Minister literally writes that the government's recent measures are not enough to help start-ups and families quickly get an affordable home in the large urban regions. My question is therefore what measures the Minister has in store for, beyond the PAS problem. In December last year, at the initiative of the CDA, the Minister was asked by motion to bring back the balance between the financial possibilities and the social challenges that the corporations have. That investigation is ongoing. This is essential for affordability. What's going on with the investigation? When can we expect the results? We cannot continue to close our eyes to the structurally increasing tax burden on corporations. So we see that Aedes has been investigating the tax burden on ATAD. We'd like an independent investigation into what's going on with this amount. Was it misplaced at the beginning of the year by the Ministry or is Aedes wrong with his investigation? Moreover, we believe that, in addition to the money, over-regulation and lack of locations are a major part of the problem. We shall come back to this in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u127	A brief question, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u128	I think the question about the ATAD measures is correct. They were supposed to hit the mailbox companies, but they hit people with a real mailbox: the tenants. The CDA says that the figures are very different. The Minister has said that she is going to compensate, at least in the short term. In the industry, they say something else. Suppose from the independent investigation, which I support, this really leads to higher charges for landlords and thus for tenants. Is the CDA prepared to discuss whether that can be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u129	For me, the issue is that corporations have to meet certain social challenges. There's a lot of them. We are also conducting an investigation into whether corporations can still do what needs to be done with that money. Now there is another setback, namely the higher ATAD costs. I cannot anticipate it, but I do think that we should look seriously at the results when it comes to finding that it is indeed very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u130	That's what you hear from the input, isn't it? That of the VVD was completely different from that of the CDA. So in the CDA we have quite an ally for the tenants, because he is trying, as far as I can judge, to go as far as they want. Can I ask you one more question about that? If Mr Ronnes had to say something about the landlord tax and the 100 million without the coalition and on behalf of the CDA, would he have preferred to do more, or does he think that they really have a big incentive with this and that "I want a home" is actually an action that doesn't make any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u131	I hear in the debate every time the $100 million come back, but have you read the Minister's letter correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u132	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u133	Is there $100 million in there or is there anything else in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u134	There's ten times 100 million. As a financial spokesman, I'm always a little worried about that, because when the charges are increased, you look every year, and when they get something, you take ten or twenty years. The burden on housing corporations over the next ten years is, of course, ten times two billion, huh? That's 20 billion, and that's what you have to relate to. Anyway, there was ten times 100 million and four times 250 million for investments in viability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u135	But that part of the 100 million also says that this can be used flexibly and that there is no ceiling. Of course, it's up to the corporations to figure out what speed they can make to eventually spend that billion. That's one. Two, we must also note that in recent years the corporations have claimed discounts, for example for sustainability and new buildings. We also see that part of that money has not yet been spent. We can call'money, money, money', but there must also be locations and the PAS problem must be solved. The problem of creating housing is too complex and too big to simply point to finance. But I will go with you if you say that we need to look closely at this structural development and if necessary we need to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u136	I'd like to go through with this. On the one hand, the words of the CDA are encouraging. But should I understand you in such a way that you say: do I actually think that this landlord levy is far too high, but it is allowed, because we have made coalition agreements for this period? They can go down from the VVD and that's why we now have ten times 100 million. That is what we are bringing forward now, so that we have a somewhat larger amount in the years to come. And you're going to do your best in a subsequent coalition agreement to adjust it further down. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u137	It might be going that way. We think it is very important that the social tasks of the corporations are reflected in that research at the end of this year. Then it will also have to come up with the price tag on it and whether these corporations can still do it. Our feeling is that it's almost impossible. If you see what's on the board of these corporations, it's almost impossible. But I think it's too early to anticipate that now. But the questions I am asking here and the joy I am showing here about what the cabinet has done to release those extra billions are a sign that we are pleased that this problem is finally being seen and that something is happening with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u138	I am very pleased with Mr Ronnes' honest answer. I would like to ask Mr Ronnes what he thinks of today's reports. I mean those messages from the corporations that are all being twittered. You also want homes to be built now and next year. When you see how many homes they could build, it's shocking that they can't do that because of the rent charge. Don't you have a little stomachache there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u139	In any case, there is now the possibility to do so, eh, because more money will be available. On the other hand, I would like to refer you to our commitment and to our earlier attempt to transfer the extra income from that landlord's tax back to the housing market. That was not possible, although I must say that what is happening now and what the cabinet is doing now is actually what was meant by that motion at the time. So they're running her, but not in the immediate context. The second point is that, in this research that is currently under way, we feel the pain of these corporations. We also believe that something should be done about this, but we will only have to support it properly. Furthermore, we will have to ensure that we have money available if we want to move money there. And yes,... We do have many wishes with each other!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u140	I have listened carefully to Mr Ronnes and I am afraid of this. Does the CDA turn left now? First of all, the CDA, and I have listened carefully, is in favour of looking seriously at a reduction in the burden for large, wealthy corporations against all the budgetary rules. But what I actually find even worse is that the CDA is in favour of that relief. How does Mr Ronnes of the CDA feel about this happening to the middle groups? How does the CDA feel about this happening to the homeowners? I hear the CDA say, "I feel the pain of big, rich corporations." That is what Mr Ronnes said! But does he also feel the pain of the homeowners and the middle groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u141	I feel the pain in the housing market, that a lot of people just can't get an affordable home. That is the problem we need to solve. That amount of 1 billion that needs to be an incentive to build more extra middle rental homes, that more locations will be available, that more speed will be made with the construction, is not just for corporations. That's not just for the middle segment. That is for the entire housing market and we must ensure that what we are building also meets the needs that lie there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u142	In that "more building" CDA and VVD work together. Mr Ronnes knows that. Cobouw calls us "the tandem." We hang out in that together, but that's not what we're talking about right now. I'm talking about the relief that the CDA is advocating for large, wealthy corporations. Does the CDA finally turn left here? How do you feel about people at home? For the owners of their own homes, who can also use a relief?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u143	I am not arguing for a reduction in the burden. I'm in favour of getting a good picture... The ATAD was estimated by the cabinet at 455 in the beginning, I think. I'll take a look, no, at 244 million. Now, according to Aedes' calculations, it's 700 million. If I want to make that clear, I am not in favour of giving a free pass at once when it comes to money, but if it brings with it problems and makes the problems that exist in the housing market even more serious and ensures that there is no more construction, then we must not close our eyes to them. We shouldn't look... You are talking about budgetary rules. As a former Alderman of Finance, I am very strict in budgetary rules, but in my case as a politician, it is the case that if we have a society and there are problems in that society, we have to stand for it as a political one. If we find that there are problems, we must also consider a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u144	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u145	At the questions of the left-wing parties I heard you say very clearly that you want to take a serious look at a lower rental charge for large landlords. I heard you say that very clearly. I also share the concerns about the housing market. I also share concerns about society. But I think it's really time for the middle groups and those owners of their own homes, and not for your big, rich corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u146	Both of them. In the Netherlands we do not benefit from solving it for one group and not for the other group. We're gonna have to take a broad look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u147	Yes, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u148	I was looking very interested. It is interesting to see that Mr Koerhuis has fewer and fewer friends left to squeeze out corporations. It's heading in the right direction, Mr. Koerhuis. But I'm gonna do an interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u149	Things were going really well between you guys!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u150	Especially with regard to fines on wrong landlords, although I do not think that is a very good thing in terms of impact. But in that we have nicely built together, so I hope we can put some pressure on the cabinet as well. But my interruption was actually for Mr Ronnes, whom I would also like to congratulate on his speech. I also hope that he will turn left permanently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u151	Hoho!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u152	It can only be disappointing now. My question was for Mr Ronnes and it is a very simple question. Do you agree with me, through the President, that there are insufficient housing for middle-income people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u153	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u154	Then my follow-up question is whether Mr Ronnes thinks it is justified to allow people with such a middle income or a higher middle income, for example those with AOW and pension, to pay extra rent, especially since we already know that this group ends with a minus, as is now shown by the Millions Note, and perhaps there will also be a pension discount. Does Mr Ronnes think that is fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u155	I think that is a very nice question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u156	Well! Then why don't you go ahead and give me a nice answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u157	The reason is that in the previous treatment of income-dependent rent increases I myself tabled an amendment to exclude senior citizens from the income-dependent rent increase. I did that because I saw that, for example, a couple with an average pension came into that income-dependent rent increase. Only, the difference with this scheme is that this is not the case. It applies to higher incomes. I have examples of people who have had a good job in their working life and together have €80,000 to €90,000 AOW and pension, with additions and you name it. Those people live in a social housing unit. I don't want to scare these people out of the house, but I do want them to pay a fair price. Surely there is nothing wrong with a corporation asking for a fair price for someone who really has a substantially higher income and is doing just right for the person who needs it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u158	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u159	But Mr Ronnes also knows that it is not just about this group. We're pretending there's millionaires in these social rentals. This is also about middle-income people. It is also about people who have lived there for 40 years and who may want to leave, but can't go anywhere, because that "building, building, building" unfortunately doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u160	Do you know what the average income of a couple with AOW and an average pension is? What's with the gross? Are they above the limit of income-dependent rent or are they below it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u161	You're asking for something, but that's not the point. I give Mrs Beckerman the opportunity to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u162	I don't even care about the averages. The question was: do you want to guarantee that people with such a middle income who can't go in the wrong direction? Well, that's an interesting question. If you say "I stand for that," I think we should take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u163	We had a discussion about the income-dependent rent increase. You have to draw a line sometime, so you'll always have exceptions. The moral of the story is that you want people to pay a fair price for the home they live in. At a time when people earn €60,000, €70,000 or €80,000, they don't have to pay the top price. I find it strange, then, with Mr Koerhuis, that the SP is trying to break a lance for people with an income of €80,000 to stay in a social housing unit. Meanwhile, low-income people have checked. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u164	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u165	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to my last piece. We see that the Climate Agreement will also have financial consequences for tenants. For example, the Civil Code and the Implementing Law will have to be adapted to accommodate the tenants and landlords in the event of sustainability. Can the Minister indicate what the planning is and whether we are dealing with a charge increase for tenants? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to conclude with a compliment to the House Union and Aedes. They signed a new social lease a year ago. Woonbond and Aedes both had the interests of the tenants in mind, and that is a good thing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mr. Chairman. Whether you're young or old, in the region or in the Randstad, whether you have more or less to spend: everyone needs a house. A private house, a place under the sun. Unfortunately, for too many people, this is becoming less and less self-evident. Look at the older couple I know. They see every year that the rent of their apartment goes up a bit. In the meantime, their small pension is no longer enough and they need to pay their savings. How much longer can they keep doing that? Look at that young couple from the Randstad, expecting their first baby. They can't find a place to buy near grandpa and grandma and in the meantime they're stuck in their, soon too tight, rented apartment, while they're now two times more lost in month's expenses than they would have lost with the highest possible mortgage. Mr. Chairman. A house is so much more than a pile of stones. The Christian Union does not opt for housing market policy, but rather for housing, and has recently even found the Prime Minister on its side. That's what I say with a wink. It means real opportunities for start-ups, social housing that remains really affordable, corporations that aren't stopped from building in the low middle rental segment and tackling real estate cowboys hard. It's good to see that the cabinet plans bring this a lot closer. Now it's time to turn those plans into action. When will we see the impact of the announced measures? I refer to the cap on the World Health Organisation, which we would have liked to have been set at 25%. I mention the possibility for housing corporations to allocate more homes appropriately. I refer to the review of the market test, so that corporations can build more easily for middle incomes. And what do we see in practice from the housing deals? Does the money that is now available also offer the possibility to store firmly on the table at municipalities, so that there is actually going to be built? Mr President, you will hear: my group is impatient. We very much hope that all the measures envisaged will now be implemented and that people will see the difference. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that last week the Minister announced that she was working on the obligation to self-inhabit and the differentiation of transfer tax. These are two proposals that could make the balance sheet a little bit fairer. For both proposals there is an approved motion from the Christian Union. In what period are we going to hear more about the differentiation of transfer tax? After all, we had hoped to obtain more information on this for the preparation of the Tax Plan. I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. Part of what is needed is new possibilities and new rules, but it is also about applying existing rules. In a previous debate, therefore, I have broken a lance for rental teams. How's the national roll-out going? The rental teams help tenants who pay far too high rents down the hall to the Rent Commission to get their rights. But it bothers my group that landlords seem to get away with this so easily. Isn't that what's bothering this minister? How are the talks about the Groningen licensing model going in that light? Why don't we see this model in many more cities? And what does the Minister think of the idea of obliging landlords to proactively indicate in a new contract or in the event of an increase in rent how the rental price relates to the points system? You'd almost think of some kind of semi-trailer for leases. Shouldn't landlords be much more transparent about the building's rental points? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to answering my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u168	The last point I expected was a little bit of the Christian Union, because I was already getting an interruption about it. I'm returning an interruption now. I can hear what the Christian Union is saying. She wants a semi-trailer on all new leases. And that should actually happen every year, because it must also apply to any rent increase. So my first question is: does the Christian Union want this to apply to all corporations and to all private landlords throughout the country? This would then have to be done while, for example, in a large part of the country, the free social rent is just below the point limit. Does this not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy and unnecessary costs, which of course have to be passed on to someone? Unfortunately, that will be the tenant, while this debate is about rising rents. Furthermore, I heard the Christian Union asking for an investigation. My question is: can this unnecessary bureaucracy and the unnecessary costs that it may entail be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u169	My group believes that transparency is very important for the tenant. I see the rents and rent increases for many tenants are abracadabra. I also see that the moment people find their way, they'll find out. We spokesmen live, have that expertise, but a lot of tenants, a lot of people in the country don't have it. What about the rents, exactly? What about the rent increases, exactly? That is why I said last time that I would very much like those rental teams to be rolled out across the country so that those teams will support people. Today, I am in favour of making this whole point system and the construction of rental prices more transparent for the tenants. Transparency is my goal. My goal is no longer bureaucracy, but my goal is to put the tenant in his power, and transparency, so that the tenant has the opportunity to act if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u170	I've listened very carefully. It is nice that the Christian Union agrees with the VVD that there should be no unnecessary bureaucracy. Transparency is always good; of course we agree on that. My question to the Christian Union is whether it does not agree that such an investigation should take account of this unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u171	It has to be balanced. I like to hear it when the VVD has other proposals to put tenants in a better position when it comes to rent and rent increases. I'm open to all suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting to about ten to five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u173	I ask the Members to take their seats again. We need the Minister's answer in the debate on the rising housing costs for tenants. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is indeed a debate, perhaps in the spirit of what was said here last week, on an important subject. It is a subject that affects many people in the Netherlands: affordability for tenants. This is really about something. That is why it is a good thing that we are actually launching this debate for many AO's, debates and legal proceedings that will follow. This is a subject that I often discuss with these spokesmen and for which the cabinet launched new initiatives last week. I am therefore confident that we will talk about this regularly. Then it is good to be able to start, at least this parliamentary year, with such a broad debate. Let me start by saying that the Nibud was already referring to you, and I think it was one of the reasons why this debate should be held. In the Netherlands, we have the starting point that people should be able to live comfortably and that their home should fit their own situation. That is why affordability deserves our full attention. I propose that, in a general sense, I address the issues mentioned in this connection, of course, I will also answer a number of questions and then answer specific questions about affordability and availability and deal with some other questions. Let me start by saying something about those tenants. Fortunately, for a large part of the tenants in the Netherlands their property is affordable. The Nibud has called especially for attention for people with the lowest incomes, and rightly so. Again, it's good that Nibud does. Some of these households have relatively high rents. We sometimes call that "expensive crooks." Sometimes it's a temporary problem, because of a personal situation, income fluctuations, and sometimes it's not. Sometimes it's a structural situation, with people with few possibilities. The Nibud has taken as its basis for what it has presented 2015. Between 2015 and now there are a number of positive developments. Income has risen faster than housing costs, due to the appropriate allocation, the number of expensive skewers has decreased and corporations are building more cheap homes. But I do not want to say that there are no problems and that it is not good that we are trying to keep an eye on this affordability. As far as I'm concerned, securing affordability, ensuring the availability of affordable homes and local customization are three important anchors in dealing with this. I have had a discussion on this before, so it is important, because it leads to an improvement in net income. I also think it is important that those who need it most should be eligible for social housing in housing corporations. I will come back in detail to differentiation and income limits, taking into account the chances of success of the lowest incomes. I also think it is important to ask households with high middle income to pay an appropriate rent and thus have an opportunity to flow through. Then the availability. Last week we talked a lot about the EUR 1 billion housing impulse. It's really meant to be able to do more on top of what we're already doing with each other. This money is used very specifically for homes for start-ups and for middle-income people, both in the rental and in the buying sector. In deploying the other 1 billion, the 100 million structurally per year that we would like to use as soon as possible with the housing corporations, the tax reduction in the landlord's tax is subject to the strict condition that cheap rental houses are built. At the same time, the availability of social housing is, of course, better secured by the proposed limitation of the share of the WPA value in the housing valuation system. Finally, I also think that local customization is very important. I keep naming that. When you take large generic measures, it is always difficult to say how it works in individual cases. One of the speakers just referred to the speech of the throne on this point. That goes for the same thing here. Local customization is one of the solutions to this. The best solution for households in a specific situation is created locally. I am thinking, for example, of large families and start-ups. If housing corporations and municipalities have the space to use the free allocation space for that, I think that will help us. Mr Nijboer is concerned. He said, for example, that the middle incomes are now in danger of getting between shore and ship. He called the word "dwelling crisis" or "dwelling shortage." There's a big shortage. We have to acknowledge that. We have to face that. And yes, especially in the big cities, in urban regions that are very popular, it can indeed be very difficult for middle-income households to find an affordable home. The answer to that is, of course, to create more offer. So I would very much like to focus the EUR 1 billion housing impulse on that. I want to use them to make it possible for start-ups in those areas to register for new construction projects, so that they have a view of a home. I am therefore also committed to a better distribution of the corporations. If families or multi-person households have easier access to social housing, we will increase that limit to €42.000; we will talk about this proposal.This is also a way to ensure better access for lower income in corporations. If we enlarge the free allocation area under certain conditions, if we give the municipalities and housing corporations room to use more free allocation space, that is also an extension. That's totally in line with that local customization I just asked for. I think that Mr Nijboer has also seen that the cabinet's proposal is to move more easily between SGEIs and non-DAEB, both in one direction and back. It's gonna be easier to slide to middle rent and back again. Last Thursday, Het Parool opened with the message that the corporations in Amsterdam say: we want to build more for middle incomes. I really liked to see that. Then you can also see an effect of the policy that this cabinet is pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mr Nijboer has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u176	Indeed, the Minister lists all the things I am going to support, namely the corporations that are also allowed to build for middle income and the increase in household income if you have to live with several people. But my criticism is of single-person households. I mentioned the example of a teacher who is still entitled to a social rental house and who will no longer be able to do so. Het Parool can't go anywhere, especially in Amsterdam, where Het Parool is read. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u177	That's true. One proposal is an extension for multi-person families and indeed the opposite for single-person families, for which it goes from €38.000 to €35,000. Given the tightness, I understand what Mr Nijboer is saying. In some cases, that can be difficult. Mr Nijboer gave an example of this. That is why it must also be a policy of and-and-and-so. It's not just this measure. It is also about other measures. That is why I have also listed these measures. It's also about increasing the supply. It is also about the very targeted use of the landlord tax reduction to encourage corporations to build more social housing. It is therefore not a single isolated measure, but a whole set of measures which also take account of the people Mr Nijboer just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u178	Yeah, but that kind of income measure goes in from one moment to the next. And those houses are really not there next year; so does the Minister. That takes a long time; before those locations are searched and this and that. That teacher can't go anywhere, and she's living with her sister now. She needs a house, actually now and otherwise next year. She may still be in a social housing facility, but she simply won't be able to go there anymore. That's a disaster of a policy, isn't it? You already have a shortage and the people who are screaming for those homes are simply teachers, nurses, police officers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You shouldn't do that, I'll tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u179	From the moment the measure was adopted, we still have to discuss it, and the Court still has to decide on it. That is why it is so important that we are already making more offers, more social rentals, so that there will be something to choose for this lady, but also for many other people in the future, appropriate to their situation. When it comes to people you say about, for all kinds of reasons, you want to give those people a place in your municipality, then the municipalities and the housing corporations can use the free allocation space to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u180	I like to go through with this, because I honestly don't get it. I understand you're raising the income line for families, because it's low. But what social interest and interest should the Minister reduce through the income limit for single-person households?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u181	I agree with what many parties in this country have discussed with each other. I would also like to say a few words about the social lease agreement. I want to look with them and with your room at the functioning of the system. What's fair? How can we distribute the social housing stock as well and as fairly as possible among those groups which, because of their income or their personal situation, should be able to visit the housing market? It may well be that Mr Smeulders and I will continue to differ on this point; that is not unthinkable. I also understand that every border in a sense has something arbitrary in it, but I do not think it is unreasonable to do so. For multi-person households, the current rules can create a really serious situation. We see space to expand it a bit, to relax it a bit. Conversely, we call on the earners to make a slightly larger contribution because of their situation. Maybe we disagree on that, but I think it's justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u182	At least the Minister makes an attempt, but she does not convince me with it and I do not fear many people because I really do not understand it. No way. The cabinet has been officially talking about a housing crisis for a week, but what social problem do you solve by saying that people who do not earn between €35,000 and €38,000 are the police officers, the teachers are no longer allowed to live in social housing? What interest do we have in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u183	In doing so, Mr Smeulders charges a bit the other way, because, of course, that is not the purpose of what is being proposed here. On the contrary. It is precisely the police officers, the nurses and many people in those sectors with a perhaps first low middle income, after which they grow into a middle income, which is in a situation where they will be able to move into that social housing. Once again, I trust that Mr Smeulders and I will often cross swords here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u184	I still don't understand it either, because the questions that are being asked here are absolutely right. But I have not yet heard any arguments from the Minister as to why the income limit of €38,000 should be reduced. Why can't en-and, so can't raise that one limit for multi-person households and lower that other limit for single-person households? Why can't en-and? The Minister is going around it a little bit, like, "Yes, we should of course build more and so on." You can build thousands, hundreds of thousands of houses, but if you then point out a particular group and say "you now have a right to a social housing, but not anymore," that is of course no use. What exactly is the reason for lowering that income line? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u185	I think it is important to apply a differentiation that is still fair in my view, precisely to give those multi-person households two or more people a little more space. Then I do not find it unreasonable to reduce that somewhat for single-person households. The proposal is differentiation. It does not go one way unilaterally; it goes up for the multi-person households and down for the single-person households.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mr. Kops again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u187	One doesn't have to rule out the other, does it? It doesn't have to contradict or bite each other, does it? So why not raise that one limit for multi-person households........................................................................................................................................................................................... One doesn't have to rule out the other, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u188	Mr Kops can also say that I want to broaden it across the board at all. You may, but I choose to say: make it fairer in the relationship between what multi-person households need and what single-person households can wear. But I also say that this is not the only measure. This fits into a series of measures, the most important of which is ultimately: ensuring a well-functioning housing market. Also, provide sufficient social rentals, sufficient middle-rental homes and cheap buy homes, so that there is a flow on the housing market and people who can pay it have the option to choose something other than that social housing. Then they can leave it to the people who need it on the basis of their income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u189	I understand that there is still a need for some impact for the 1 billion boost. But it just came up in which areas it would end up in. The letter states "disparities." For me, that's wider than just the residential areas. How am I supposed to see that definition now? Do I have to see that when it benefits housing development in a region to empty scarcity, the money can go there, no matter where it is? That can be in Nijmegen, for example, but I do not think it is only in the residential areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u190	Mr Ronnes is actually saying it exactly right. Look, one thing is certain: in the five regions with which we agreed a housing deal, there is scarcity. But there are more areas in the Netherlands where there is scarcity. I would like to come to the Chamber as soon as possible, because, as far as I am concerned, we simply have to start on 1 January. This means that we must put this together in such a way that it sees not only in the residential areas, but also in the areas where the pressure is the largest and where we can achieve speed and additional housing with the rich money. So it depends on a number of factors. Scissors are certainly an element. So that means the housing deals plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u191	I'm very happy with the way the Minister says it here. In my view, a very important condition is that this money leads to rapid housing development, because that is what we are waiting for. We have seen in the deduction arrangements of the corporations that money has been demanded, but that it is still on the shelf. So we have to make sure that money is going to roll, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u192	I can only agree with Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u193	Mr Smeulders once again, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u194	Yes, at this point, the point of the housing impulse of 1 billion. Can the Minister indicate how many additional homes she expects to be built from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u195	No, I'd like that. We have insight into the plans through the housing deals, but now we have an additional instrument in our hands, a financial instrument, which we have said should lead to faster building and more housing. At the same time, we also see that the previous President did not really want us to discuss this subject here, and that is what is called nitrogen. That problem was already there in itself, but let's say it's about the system we dealt with. We have also said that the 1 billion can also be used to solve this problem. These may be additional costs that need to be incurred in order to allow housing while reducing nitrogen deposition. So for that reason it is very difficult to say now exactly what numbers we are talking about, because it depends on what choices are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u196	This is about 1 billion euros. That's an incredible amount of money. A few weeks ago we had a breakfast meeting here, organized by the Finance spokesmen, who gave us as a Chamber: colleagues, pointed out much more clearly what the objectives are when the cabinet comes up with something. I find it very special to note that 1 billion has been made available on Princess Day and that this minister has set himself the goal of achieving 75,000 homes a year, but we do not know how many homes we are going to build for that billion that is available. Perhaps, in the short term, you could come to the Chamber and suggest how we are going to work that out. I'd really appreciate that. In any case, according to the rules of the game we have agreed together, we know how many more homes will be realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u197	That is not a strange comment from Mr Smeulders. I also think it is right that the Chamber should have an insight into what you think it is possible to achieve. I would like to give the Chamber an insight into what choices we think we can make. A harsh condition, which is also written in the letter, is that it should be additional to what other parties could invest in housing, i.e. not instead of money from municipalities, developers or otherwise. It has to be additional and you have to get something in return, for example more speed, more sustainable homes or a solution to the nitrogen problem. We are going to talk about this in detail, but I would very much like to say that this must be clear, because that is also very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u198	When does the Minister intend to send these options to the Chamber? Is that still for the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u199	Yeah, I think we're having a separate legislative consultation on Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u200	That's November 11th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u201	I want to start on 1 January, so we are working very hard on it. Somewhere in the coming months, that will reach the Chamber. Mr Smeulders also quite rightly asked where the cabinet response to his own initiative paper remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u202	Could the aim be to do so before the legislative consultation on 11 November?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u203	I'm afraid to admit it. In any case, I will have to be able to indicate when and where we are during this legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u204	I was talking about the pursuit or the commitment. I can sense that the same questions come from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u205	Sure, Mr. Chairman, because it's about 1 billion. I think it is very good that the Minister wants to speed up and start 1 January, but December is not a very long month in this house. We still need time to discuss this and the possibility of tabling motions or proposals before the Minister is going to spend that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u206	Yes, of course, all understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u207	The chairman asked a fair question. Perhaps the Minister could come back to it later when she thinks that the letter could come to the Chamber with the effect of the 1 billion-dollar housing impulse. Let me just say to the other spokesmen that we should look at the date of the budget discussion on Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u208	See, that's a constructive suggestion from Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u209	I hear this can come back to the procedural meeting, but I am afraid that the date of the note-taking is fixed, so one way or another you must come together. We're gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u210	This is really wider than just the coalition. We have the same interest, namely that the housing market is or remains in motion and that the money can be used effectively. I'm going to make an effort to do that, and I'll let the Chamber know when it's there. I also understand the relationship with the legislative consultation. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions of affordability. Mr Ronnes referred to the fact that the Nibud says that minimums can pay up to €425 in rent, while appropriate allocation is based on around €600. Quite precisely, the Nibud bases that ruling on the budget of a household with a welfare allowance. Apart from that rent, there is still a small amount of money left for other expenses, but they are always averages. If you then have €600 rent, a large part will be reimbursed by the rent allowance. If allocated appropriately, that helps a little bit to increase affordability. Around 95% of households with income up to the capping limit of around €600 should then be housed in a house below the capping limit. Now there are always specific situations of households that can pay more, or less, but the appropriateness standard is a maximum and the corporations can also allocate a lower rent. For households already living in a rented house whose rent is difficult to pay, the corporations can reduce the rent. Something about this has also been included in the Social Rental Agreement; this concerns the agreements made by the Housing Union and Aedes. I really intend to broaden the scope for temporary rent reductions. Mrs Beckerman asked why we would not raise the liberalisation limit. She spoke, I thought, of €1,000. I think that is what she means by going through the points system. I believe that I have argued before, also in debates with Mrs Beckerman, that I think that the points system is less suitable for protecting that segment. We are also dealing with the achievement of a reasonable return by those who invest. Otherwise, these investments will no longer take place, and we will not help tenants. A balance must, of course, be sought. So for that segment, I'm working on the emergency button right now. I shall come back to that in a little more detail. We're still looking for a way to get the design in order. I will inform the House about this in the autumn. Mr Kops of the PVV asked when the rents could finally be reduced. He's always very consistent about that. I'm just saying that Nibud's investigation saw the situation in 2015. The rent quotes haven't risen since then. It's important to say that anyway. A general rent reduction would not be very useful either; it is not necessary for everyone. It would also have a very negative impact on the investment capacity of the landlords. This has also been calculated, in this case by the PBL. On the other hand, I have just said that a targeted rent reduction could, of course, help in individual cases and that I want to make it possible for landlords to give temporary rental discounts through legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u211	Did the minister really say that a rent cut wouldn't make sense? I think a lot of tenants are looking forward to that and they really need it. At the same time, the Minister says that a reduction in rents affects the investment capacity of corporations. Yes, but let's not forget that it is this cabinet that the corporations are just saddled with huge tax increases: the ATAD and you name it all. If the Minister did not do so and would remove the burden on the corporations, then the rents could be reduced. Is that what she says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u212	I said that a general rent reduction would not make sense, because I assumed that Mr Kops was talking about the tenants the Nibud also points to, the tenants with the lowest incomes who really have trouble getting around. That's what I'm worried about. I understand that very well. But that doesn't apply to everyone; that doesn't apply to all tenants. That was my comment. I'll be back later to talk about the ATAD. It's not a choice the cabinet has. We must also impose the ATAD on the corporations. However, we are looking for other ways to make it possible for the corporations to continue investing in, for example, sustainability in order to ensure that the energy bill can also go down for tenants, to continue investing in new buildings and at the same time to ensure that this is, of course, the third important branch of the housing corporations. We must maintain a good balance. That's why I'm saying an overall rent cut would upset that balance. I don't see any possibilities for that in this way. Mrs Van Eijs spoke about sustainability. She wondered how we could ensure that sustainability for tenants would be cost-neutral or even advantageous. I believe that we in this Chamber have also said, in connection with the Climate Agreement, that this is exactly what we want: a sustainability that is feasible and affordable. That means housing costs are neutral. Then a higher rent can be quite acceptable, because then there is a lower energy bill on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u213	Mr Nijboer, probably on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u214	Yeah, exactly. The Minister makes it appear that the ATAD, the letterbox company measure, is really inevitable and happens to the minister as well. But the Minister is Minister, isn't he? She can decide in the Cabinet to meet them, can't she? In fact, she did this in part, at 100 million. Alone, that ATAD is much more. So my question is: why didn't you put your fist on the table harder and make sure that the housing corporations are fully compensated for that? After all, there was also 1.5 billion for the defence sector. Why wasn't there such a amount for tenants to find?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u215	I see two gains here. The first gain is that Mr Nijboer seems to agree with me that the ATAD as such is unavoidable. In other words, we do not have the freedom to say that it does not apply. The second point of profit is the following. Surely Mr Nijboer can only agree with me that it is nice that through the EUR 1 billion we have been able to provide relief for housing corporations that are building the landlord's tax? We hope that these housing corporations will be able to spend that amount in the coming years. We do it directly as a discount on the landlord's tax, and we just made that decision during the cabinet's journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u216	We can pretend to agree, but that is not the case. I do not care very much whether an exception has been made in the tax technique or whether they have been compensated in another way, for example with a subsidy or whatever. I don't care about that at all. That is my first point. But my point is that it doesn't happen. My point is as follows. It's $100 million. It is ten times 100 million; that is brought as 1 billion, but it is just 100 million when you look at how we normally talk about this in the Chamber, because we are looking at the budget for a year. But that 100 million is totally insufficient to get enough affordable social housing. Because next year, housing corporations will have to pay more than 100 million extra in taxes. That's my point. I'm asking the Minister to fight for that even more. I am satisfied that there is already 100 million, but it is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u217	Maybe there are two answers to this. One. It's entered in the budget. Mr Nijboer spells that out as 100 million in structural terms, and he is right about that. But the letter also says very clearly: if the corporations, especially now that the pressure is so great and the need is so high, manage to use that money faster, then that can and then we just make it possible. This is an agreement we made in the cabinet. The honourable Member of the European Parliament fully agrees with this. Of a structural series of 100 million you can say: fine, that means there will be 1 billion in space in the coming years. Mr Nijboer knows that too. So in other words, and that is the second part of my answer: the ATAD is running up, but for this cabinet period it is more than compensated by the various discounts given by the cabinet to the landlords who build and make it more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u218	I'm gonna go through with this. As a Chamber we have received all kinds of statistics from Aedes, the association of housing corporations. They make it very clear to me in many different forms that they will receive a discount on the one hand, but de facto pay more taxes. Does the Minister recognize that? Does the Minister recognise that the burden on housing corporations is de facto simply increasing in the coming years, despite the discounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u219	No. I have often reported to the Chamber that it was more than compensated for this cabinet period. So that was before this new impulse of 1 billion or 100 million structurally, if you will. But after that, ATAD gets up. So that's the situation we're looking at. Now this amount is added to that. I also do not want to close my eyes to what is happening in the future as a result of ATAD. That is why I have agreed with Aedes, with the Ministry of Finance and with other organisations that we are taking this very seriously. We'll be coming in a week or two with a new report on the investment space for corporations. Then the Chamber will be able to judge that very well. We are still in the process of implementing the Ronnes motion, which looks more broadly at the whole issue of investment capacity and the social task of housing corporations. So I will do everything I can to give you maximum insight. And if there was a difference of opinion between my ministry, the Ministry of Finance and Aedes, we'd talk about that. But I think we have been able to make really good agreements on this for this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u220	Mr Smeulders once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u221	It's not about the distant future, it's about me today. Vandág puts all corporations' tax returns on Twitter, i.e. the money they transfer to the Minister of Finance and you. It concerns millions of landlords, for which they cannot build social housing. And doesn't the Minister find it a little harsh on a day like today that we in this country seem to find it normal that the weakest should bear the heaviest burdens, and that we seem to find it normal that the corporations, who stand up for vulnerable people, should pay the landlord's tax, and not, in fact, all the owners of homes above €720? Isn't that just weird?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u222	All owners with more than 50 homes in the social rental sector pay that landlord's tax. That's the deal that was made. I've also seen housing corporations communicate that today. Of course, that's their right. Again, I'm always in conversation with the housing corporations about how to handle it best. At the same time, I would like to point out that, if you look at the overall investment area and the task of housing corporations, namely building, affordable rents and sustainability, it can still be done, in general terms, with the incentives that we have built into this cabinet period. I have already said that this does not mean that it is exactly the same for all corporations. No, there are big differences between corporations, and we have to deal with that. But at the beginning of this cabinet period the decision was not made to waive the landlord's tax. There is, just like other taxes. It just needs to be paid for. That is what corporations have to deal with, and that is what they generally do very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u223	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u224	Yeah, exactly. I'm going back to the sustainability, because that's where I stayed. I was in the process of replying to Mrs Van Eijs. The second question she asked was how tenants can enforce sustainability of their property with the landlords. We have talked about the legal right of initiative, which allows tenants to enforce sustainability under conditions, such as isolation or something like that. Then there often comes a higher rent in exchange for taking the measures. With the Climate Agreement, we are looking at the whole package of sustainability measures, including the possibility of extending this right of initiative. But you can also look at other things. What do you do when there's a neighborhood-oriented approach? What do you do to ensure that there is a good incentive to want to make sustainable? So we want to take a broader look at it. Finally, on this point. Mrs Van Eijs asked if there are any national subsidies for tenants who do not want to wait for their landlord to take action. I also refer to the Climate Agreement and its measures. Of course, the organisations that represent the tenants were also involved, just like the landlords. I don't have the picture that with that whole package that's going to be executed, the tenants will have to wait until they get their turn. We are trying to do it as quickly as possible, through the renovation accelerator, through the corporation sector as a starter engine, but of course not everything can be done at the same time. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u225	I understand what the Minister is saying about housing corporations, but there are, of course, plenty of people, probably more and more people who do not rent from a housing corporation, but from a private landlord. We didn't make any deals with that, so they don't have an incentive to use that horrible word to make it more sustainable. They have no real reason for that, because they don't make any money; a tenant has the costs if they don't. My question is: if your landlord says "fine, solitary" or "squirt that gap wall but full of insulation," how can you, as a tenant, somehow make sure that you, and not just the homeowner, are helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u226	Perhaps I could suggest to Mrs Van Eijs that we take this point back later. We will discuss in detail a whole package of legislative proposals. The Minister of EZK has already described in his letter what the legislative programme looks like. Attention is also paid to the package for sustainability that is available for tenants and landlords. That is quite a complex and technical subject; Mrs Van Eijs knows this very well. I therefore propose that this point be included in the discussion of all the concrete proposals. We have a major debate here. As I said, I also use this to listen carefully to the concerns raised by the various speakers. I heard Mrs Van Eijs right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u227	I would like to support Mrs Van Eijs' plea. The Minister briefly referred to the right of initiative. The current right of initiative for tenants really sees investment in accordance with the old fossil economy, while we want to move towards an initiative to make homes truly sustainable. My question is really: when can we talk about this as a Chamber? Is that on the law trail? Or is it possible that we will have information from the Minister earlier on how she intends to modernise that right of initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u228	I actually intended to include that in the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u229	Then I hope that the legislative process will be set in motion very quickly. I remember the letter from EZK. I do not have any more focus when exactly this legislation is being amended, but let us hope that it will really be next year. I now come across tenants who say: we want to take a step, but we are empty-handed at the moment. It would be extremely unfortunate if we were to discourage people who want to work on the energy transition. On the contrary, I would very much like to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u230	I can understand that very well. That is, I think, what we all had in mind, also with the Climate Agreement. We're working hard together with EZK to put it all in the scaffolding. We can certainly discuss this further before the end of the year. Mr. Chairman. I'm skipping a few things, because I think we've talked about that sufficiently. There was a specific question from Mr Krol on the rent ratio of 18% for mayors. He compared that to the lowest incomes, which often pay a much higher percentage of rent. He points out a special situation in which mayors have to live in an official residence. It was agreed that this should be 18% of the salary. The arrangement agreed for that purpose is therefore linked to the obligation to live in that house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u231	Mr Krol still has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u232	I understand it very well, but I still think that a lot of people who are struggling to find a house now would want them to have a mandatory house, whether or not they are in office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u233	That might be possible, but there are not so many government homes in the Netherlands anymore. Mr. Chairman. I think we have already talked a lot about the ATAD and such things. I have also referred to the implementation of Mr Ronnes' motion. He asked for that. This motion calls for an understanding of the social challenge versus the financial possibilities. It's kind of complicated to do this right. It must be careful; it must be based on the most recent insights. I have already said that the frameworks of the WSW and the Aw are the starting point. Currently, the WSW is working with a strategic programme to create a model that should also check whether the available capital is sufficient. That is again necessary to gain insight into the risks to the total guarantee. This model must then be tested in the light of the way in which it works for investment capacity. In short, it's a complex whole. It really needs to be done right. The Aw and the WSW will establish at the end of this year the final set of ratios on which the investment space per corporation is determined. That's also relevant. So I don't think I can do that until the end of the year. I suppose I'll even have to go over that in order to do this really well. Sometimes things take time, but unfortunately the complexity forces that a little. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the housing deals. I've just argued how we're linking the housing deals to the housing impulse. That's not exclusive. But with that we do have a very good starting point, because then we know a lot about the possibilities and the possibilities. Of course, with the housing deals, we've already started. It's running. That housing impulse is actually coming alongside and can make more possible. We will discuss this with each other, as has already been agreed with the President. Mr Krol asked about the life-long housing of corporations. BZK and VWS try to stimulate the construction of older people's housing in different ways. We have the program Langer Home. I believe that this was also the subject of a debate in this Chamber yesterday. A number of very concrete actions are under way, for example the Incentive Scheme Living and Care. My colleague De Jonge made a commitment yesterday to see if initiatives such as the Knarrenhof could make use of them. Furthermore, the Task Force Housing and Care has recently been set up and is being promoted. Finally, there are the expert team Living and Care, which can help municipalities, and the specific agreements on elderly housing in almost all housing deals. In reply to Mr Krol, I refer to the Committee on Future Care, the elderly living at home, the so-called 'Bos' committee. This committee is investigating how care for the elderly should be organised in the future. I think that meets Mr Krol's wish to look closely at the costs and benefits of living together. We've had the effect of the housing impulse. Mr Koerhuis asked about the waiting lists and what he, I think, called "the deniers." It is true, I think, and I believe that Mr Koerhuis also said so, that the fact that you are on a waiting list does not necessarily say anything about the opportunity you have to acquire a home. This requires an active attitude from the person on the waiting list. The number of active house seekers is therefore actually a better indication to handle. I believe that Mrs Van Eijs also illustrated, on the basis of her personal experience, that the people who are inactive on the waiting list do not necessarily stand in the way of active seekers. This is, of course, different for people who refuse a home, and I think that is what Mr Koerhuis is worried about. These are active seekers who eventually get a home, but who forsake it after ample considerations. He asked if we should be refusing a home like this, and I might be putting it a little too heavy on this one. I see that municipalities deal with this differently, and I think that's good, too. After all, it is a local issue for municipalities and housing corporations to decide on in consultation with tenants. For example, if they see that there is a problem for older people or young people, they can take this into account. They can designate start-ups or certain professional groups as an urgent group for whom there really is a bottleneck. The same applies to young people for whom something can be done through youth contracts. So just that local customization is, I think, an important solution here. Mrs Van Eijs asked about measures to improve the balance between start-ups and investors. This has been called for several times by various spokesmen, including those of the opposition, but we have now indeed made a real effort to strengthen the position of start-ups vis-à-vis investors. Starters need more opportunities. I have always said that this does not mean that we can do without investors. We can't, but we have to make sure those starters can actually get somewhere. We will have to find a good balance in this. I expect that study on the differentiation of transfer tax to be completed by the end of this year. As soon as that happens, of course, we are going to start drawing up the cabinet response that should be there at the beginning of next year. I would also like to inform your Chamber this year about progress in the area of compulsory residence. The exploration and all these measures will have to be considered in conjunction, I think. We must avoid seeing a kind of accumulation of all kinds of successive measures. Again, we need investors. That is to say: the good investors, the ones who make sure that these middle-rent and buying houses are actually built. That is, I think, also the answer to Mrs Dik-Faber who asked for it. Some say: there is a lot of research going on and it takes a long time. But that's really only because you need to know very well. Half-time work is of no use to us, and we have no use for measures which do not appear to be working in practice. It's never unwillingness, it's just our endeavor to do it as well as possible. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions that I would like to answer, and I hope that I have answered the questions that have been asked. Mr Krol asked about the homeless. Like Mr Blokhuis, I have already said that we are shocked by the CBS figures. Of course, the numbers have increased enormously. We also believe that something else needs to be done. You may have seen in the letter that we refer to this group and that we say: it is important that the municipalities have the space to deploy different instruments, for example more temporary housing. This can help this target group faster. We also look at sufficiently guided living places et cetera. Prinsjesdag's package of measures also looks forward to offering these really too high numbers of homeless people a perspective. The Groningen licensing system, I thought it was Mrs Dik-Faber talking about it. That's the pilot in the municipality of Groningen and it's part of a broader approach to good landlordship, which I made agreements about with five large municipalities. We started these pilots this year and they run this year and next year. We will share all knowledge and experience with each other and also see what is more applicable than just in the place where the pilot ran. I will continue to inform the Chamber of the progress of those pilots. Finally, also by Mrs Dik-Faber, the question of how are the rental teams set up? This is part of the approach to good landlordship. For example, I work in this together with the House Union. I will also inform the Chamber about this this year. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have been able to answer all the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u234	Mrs. Van Eijs has another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u235	Maybe the minister already mentioned it; it happened very quickly. The emergency button, when does it come into effect? And I had also asked whether it would be possible to look at the maximisation of rent increases, and not just the initial rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u236	The alarm clock is being worked hard. I think I just answered that question very quickly. I will look it up, but I think I said that we are working on it now and that we will come back to it this autumn, relatively soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u237	This fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u238	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u239	Mrs. Van Eijs, any other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u240	When is the answer to the other question I asked? The question was whether the emergency button should also look at the maximisation of the rent increase and not just of initial rents, so that the effect is not already destroyed after a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u241	I come back to all these points in a lot of debates. I can't answer this right now unless it's handed to me right now, but it's not. I have noted that question and I shall return to it in a subsequent debate. We see each other so often, Mrs. Van Eijs and I and the other spokesmen. It's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u242	I doubt it, because this was the point. It is difficult for the Minister to say: I will return to it in a later debate. We are having a debate today on rising rents. Now I have asked a lot of questions about the free sector and I have put a lot of possibilities. In fact, the only answer we get is what the minister said first: that's annoying for investors, because if you do something about the rents they get a lower return. And of that emergency button, which actually applies only specifically to a very small area, the Minister says, while we have been waiting for it for two years or more: I will come back to that later. I am not really getting a picture of what the Minister wants to do in concrete terms for these towering rents in that free sector right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u243	I would like to see how many measures have passed through. There are very many of them, and I understand very well that every spokesperson, depending on his or her own interest and ideological background, then picks out one or two of them. Mrs Beckerman is, of course, right: we have talked about the emergency clock before. I sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter in July with the result. I also stated in that letter that there are many objections to this effect in the case of'subsidiaries', I would say, the municipalities and the market parties. They consider it important that they keep room for local arrangements, for the local development. That may also be a way of dealing with it, because of course that is much faster than coming up with new legislation. In addition, I referred to last week's letter, which contains many new initiatives, which also deal with the rents and the affordability of the rents. The cap on the World War II: Mrs Beckerman may not think that is enough, but I think she should be able to count on some sympathy from her side. The improvement, I think, in the approach towards start-ups and investors. The revision of box 3 that Mr Snel has come up with. The housing impulse. Of course, I try to do justice to all subjects as widely as possible, but it's a bit of a sum total of everything. In fact, I think I have at least answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u244	Mrs. Beckerman, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u245	Now the Minister mentions a whole series of measures which are not about the free sector. And that free sector is really a problem, because we now call renting of €1,000 "middle rental." How euphemistic do you want it? At the same time, the Minister concludes that people with a middle income of €35,000 who are single are no longer allowed in the social sector. They have to go to the free sector, and there has not yet been one concrete measure to curb these rents, while even in Flevoland this year, for example, rents have increased by more than 20% compared to last year. What exactly is the Minister going to do about this towering free sector hiring?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u246	I shall come back to the answer that has been given, namely the whole range of measures, from more offer to the agreements made in the Social Rental Agreement. I can repeat it again, but I have already given that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u247	It's about the cap on the rent increases in commercial rent. Perhaps you could comment on this in the second term. Is that a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u248	No. The problem is not that I did not give that answer, but that the answer I give is not the answer Mrs Beckerman wants to hear. It wants to go through the points system, it is not the only one, others have said this here too, to €1,000 or above. I have said before that it is not an instrument I would like to use to protect that segment. We're looking for other ways to do that. That is what I call a series of measures, but it is not the broadening of the points system, and that is what Mrs Beckerman has been asking for time and time again. And that's her right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u249	I see two more debates coming up, including on 17 October. There will also be a note-taking meeting. I would like to refer Mrs Beckerman to the next debates, where she can denounce them again. 'Cause I'm gonna take a look at the clock, too. We had till 6:00. Do you have any final comments? Short, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u250	Of course it is always easy to refer to forthcoming debates, but this debate is specifically about high rents. Then the Minister can say that she does not approve of my proposals. I'm fine with that. Then I ask what the Minister's proposals are. A Social Rental Agreement is wonderful, but it is not about the free sector. So I'm gonna stick to my question anyway. As long as only measures are mentioned that are not about renting in the free sector, is it not so strange that in a debate on high rents we ask what the solutions are for high rents? I can make it even more concrete. A motion by Mr Koerhuis and myself has been adopted to give fines to landlords who go wrong. When will this effect come? That is at least one concrete example of how we can fine wrong pawnshops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u251	The elaboration of the motion, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u252	I think that is a fair question from Mrs Beckerman, and I will give her an answer to it at the very beginning of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u253	Let's just wait and see. Then there's Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u254	I still miss an answer to my question about adjusting the Civil Code and the Implementing Law rents living space in relation to the position of tenants and landlords in the event of sustainability, in order to ensure it legally. He was supposed to come to the room. When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u255	I'll take it with me at the beginning of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u256	We'll wait and see. Then we have come to the end of the first term of the cabinet, of the minister. Let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a short suspension or if we can proceed immediately. We'll get right on it. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u257	Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of motions, so I'll start filing them right away. A great deal has been passed on to subsequent debates and to analyses and investigations. That's a bit of a pattern, but that's what we're trying to break from the opposition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that people without partners should also be sure of an affordable home;]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to reduce the maximum income limit for single persons in order to qualify for a social housing allowance;]] [[whereas the cabinet is forcing single people to be hired in the free sector;]] [[also considering that people with a middle income in the free sector sometimes lose more than half of their income to housing costs;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from lowering the maximum income limit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that everyone should be sure of an affordable home;]] [[Whereas tenants in the free sector have lost up to half their income to housing costs;]] [[Whereas landlords can increase rents almost indefinitely and confront people with rent increases of more than €100;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a legal ceiling for price increases in the free sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-557]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-558]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u258	The motion concerns exactly the subject that Mrs Beckerman has just touched in her last interruptions. There are also problems in the free sector. Finally, in my final seconds, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that everyone should be sure of an affordable home;]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to confront people with rent increases of up to €100 per month;]] [[Whereas due to the housing shortage, people cannot find an affordable alternative;]] [[calls on the government not to make any additional income-dependent rent increases as long as there are insufficient affordable housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-559]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u260	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs. Beckerman. Or is Mr. Krol first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u261	Well, Mr President, I would have let Mr Krol go in the first term. That may now be the case again, but I see that Mr Krol is now letting me lead; sympathetic as we are. Mr. Chairman. This is still a bit of a disappointing debate. We're really in a deep housing crisis. As a result, the problems for people with low or middle incomes are getting worse. Whether you're living in social housing, in a free-sector housing or trying to buy, that's a rise in housing costs. Neighborhoods go backwards and people get cramped. And actually, there's so little concrete coming out of it. It's waiting. It's just waiting. There are commitments. In the meantime, this commitment list is thirteen pages long, but of course it doesn't help people at all. Mr. Chairman. I, too, shall table a motion. Once again, it is an attempt to make a proposal in which living becomes more affordable. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the income-dependent rent increase further jeopardises access to social rental;]] [[Whereas the social rental sector should be accessible to most of our population;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the income-dependent rent increase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Krol, Mr Nijboer and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-560]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u262	Mr. Chairman. I think I'm gonna leave it at that. I hope that in the second term the Minister will certainly want to come back to my questions about what we are going to do about these exorbitant rentals that are being requested in the free sector. I think that the answer to that question is still totally inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u263	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u264	Mr. Chairman. The Minister said several times that this is a major debate. Well, you could see that, because we've actually been hearing this little triad from the minister for two and a half years. There's so little going on. "Yes," she says, "we need to build more: more social rent and more middle rent." But it's not happening. Meanwhile, the rents go up, there are tenants with financial problems. It is really incomprehensible that the Minister is persisting at the same time in her plan to lower the income threshold for single-person households. In doing so, she excludes a whole group of people from claiming a social housing, a group that can now claim such a social housing. The minister is forcing this group into a house in the middle rent, which these people can't afford at all, if such a property is even there. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to instruct housing corporations to build affordable homes rather than to deal with the expensive climate measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to reduce rents in the corporation sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-561]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-562]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u265	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's a matter of making choices. When I hear the minister like that, she wants and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-and-so. Corporates have to build. They must also be sustainable, which will cost some 108 billion in total. At the same time, they will be burdened with a billion dollars. Of course, the discount on the landlord's tax falls completely into disrepute if it goes up again due to rising WOZ values. The cabinet wants to en-and-and-and. I can't. It has to make choices. The choices made by the PVV are expressed in the motions: the rents should be reduced and we should stop making them more sustainable and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u266	Thank you very much. In the end, we will listen to Mr Krol, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank my colleagues who, in the first term, allowed me to be somewhere else for a while. Thank you also to the Minister for answering all the questions. We do not agree on everything, but thank you very much for all the answers. Since the Forest Committee does not say anything about it to me, I shall nevertheless put forward a motion to ensure that the cost-benefit analysis of living together becomes clear. It seems to me that it is very interesting for some government parties to know what these figures really are. All I'm asking for is an investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of housing;]] [[Whereas living together may have adverse financial consequences by regulatory means;]] [[Whereas living together can prevent loneliness, promote the desired longer stay at home, relieve the burden on carers, reduce the scarcity of housing markets and reduce CO emissions per person;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a cost-benefit study on the promotion of cohabitation, including the removal of rules that make cohabitation financially unattractive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-563]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a long waiting list for a social housing unit may cause a feeling of despondency;]] [[whereas many people are passively enrolling for a social housing facility and remain on a waiting list for years;]] [[noting that this helps to maintain the problem of long waiting lists;]] [[calls on the government to examine with the corporation sector what measures are needed to ensure that waiting lists are made up of people who are really looking for a social housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u269	As has been said, the VVD is pleased that we, as a coalition, are working on the flow of skeptics. However, besides crooked people, there is another group that contributes to waiting lists, namely those who refuse to live. With the investigation requested in our motion, we hope to see the effects of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u270	Thank you very much. Then we will listen to Mr Smeulders, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber, I taste more and more love for housing. The Christian Union presented a proposal to that effect six months ago. Last week, of course, the CDA called attention to this. To be honest, I am very pleased that the Minister is now also talking about the 'living crisis', but that real passion for housing was a little less noticeable. I would therefore like to offer her this report from the GroenLinks scientific office. Its title is Directed on Housing, Fair and Affordable Living for All. It was presented in Amsterdam last month. 150 people were there. You can see that the theme is alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u272	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u273	I have one more question: when can we see the response to our own initiative paper? The Minister was going to answer that question, but then there were interruptions. There are a lot of proposals in this report. The own-initiative proposal contains five concrete proposals. I'd like to hear when we can expect it. Then there's one more proposal by way of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the investigation of the Nibud shows that many tenants do not have enough money each month to cover their necessary cost of living;]] [[Whereas this is partly due to high rental charges;]] [[Whereas CBS figures show that in the year 2018 the housing ratio of social tenants is 36% and the housing ratio of tenants in the free sector is 42% and that this is much lower for owners of residential housing by 29%;]] [[calls on the government to examine the adequacy of rent rates for tenants and to propose how this rental rate can be implemented in the rental policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-565]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answers on the emergency button. I just think of it as an encouragement to keep asking for it. Two motions from my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tenants are not always able to enforce a good insulation of their home with the home owner;]] [[Whereas such insulation measures reduce energy costs for tenants and increase residential comfort;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to further develop and implement the Climate Agreement so that tenants do not get stuck between higher energy taxes and their inability to sustain their homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that homeowners and landlords are already encouraged to take energy-saving measures;]] [[Whereas such insulation measures reduce energy costs for tenants and increase residential comfort;]] [[Whereas tenants can benefit from their own investments in residential insulation even if the landlord does not want to invest himself;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether existing subsidy schemes for homeowners and landlords can also be made available for sustainability investments by tenants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Ronnes and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-566]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u275	Thank you for the Minister's response in the first term. I have two motions. The first motion concerns the ATAD. The Minister indicated the state of affairs with regard to the investigation of the social task versus the financial position of corporations. I believe that this is not related to the ATAD debate, where there is a great deal of uncertainty as to how much that amount is now. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, when ATAD was introduced, it was reported to the Court that the corporate tax burden of corporations would be "only" EUR 244 million, but that research shows that corporate tax will also be around 700 million thanks to ATAD and that these incorrect estimates justify a review;]] [[noting that this puts pressure on the affordability of rentals;]] [[noting that ATAD inhibits investment in new homes while there is a strong need for more housing;]] [[whereas virtually all European countries have made an exception for social landlords on ATAD and/or corporate tax;]] [[Whereas, moreover, corporations face exponentially rising construction costs, lack of construction sites, new climate requirements, nitrogen emissions and high land prices and landlord charges;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct independent investigations and to indicate within one month the amount of the ATAD, paid by corporations, and what that means for the total burden on housing corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u276	Mr. Chairman. My final motion concerns an answer that the Minister still owes me. I'll wait for her reaction; I can always hold or withdraw the motion. It's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy share of the housing costs will be modified by the plans of the Climate Agreement;]] [[noting that the Civil Code and the Implementing Law on rental accommodation should be amended rapidly due to the desire set out in the Climate Agreement to lay down rules on the position of tenants and landlords in the event of sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber the proposed bill as soon as possible, but not later than this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-569]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u278	Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions. I imagine that there will be a lot of legislation coming up next year, and we are really going to take the step towards a future-proof housing market. Perhaps I should say a future-proof housing policy, because that is the word that sounds a lot more often in this Chamber. I'm glad. Mr. Chairman. I have signed a number of motions, including Mr Ronnes on ATAD and Mrs Van Eijs on the position of tenants when it comes to making the house more sustainable. I have a motion of my own, which I'm about to file. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tenants of a free-sector dwelling can enforce a rent reduction at the Rent Commission if, on the basis of the property valuation system, the rent should not exceed the liberalisation limit;]] [[noting that tenants can only appeal it for the first six months and that the corridor to the Rent Commission, especially in the absence of a local rental team, is perceived as a large threshold;]] [[considers that landlords should comply with regulations and should also be able to justify doing so;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how free-sector housing landlords can be required by a new contract and, in the event of an increase in rent, to provide insight into how the rental price relates to the housing valuation system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-570]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u281	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I see she can use a five to six-minute suspension to review the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u282	I give the floor to the Minister to answer in the second term and to respond to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will indeed respond to the motions. I have two more questions. A preliminary remark, because I forgot that in the first term. Mr Smeulders referred to the term 'people's housing', which often fell in the debate on the General Reviews. I kind of liked that. I am a Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and I am proud of that, but I am of course a very large part of my time working on what was always called "Living" until last week. That was about the housing market, but it was never the minister of or for the housing market. Also my predecessor was Minister for Living. The term 'people's housing' has indeed come into play and I think that is very nice. I think it's a bit of a jolly name, too. We didn't choose to change the name of the ministry at the time. That goes with sobriety, too. But I have always felt like a minister for housing, so thank you to Mr Smeulders for raising that point in his second term. Then there are two questions and 14 motions. Mrs Beckerman had a question about the motion she tabled together with Mr Koerhuis, which sees fines for wrong landlords. That's in the legislation on tourist rental. That legislation lies with the Council of State, but I expect it to come back soon. It's about dealing with housing fraud, so it's not necessarily about the rent. The rental height runs through the route of the good landlordship. For this, attention has also been paid to the General Reviews and the Asscher/Heerma motion has been tabled, so that has plenty of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u284	Mrs Beckerman has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u285	These are two different motions: Koerhuis/Beckerman and Beckerman/Koerhuis. The first was about Airbnb and include violations as an economic offence, so that higher penalties could be imposed. The second motion that has been adopted actually goes much further. It is about the possibility of making all house fraud an economic crime, so that the wrong-made profits can be fully recovered and it really hurts. I wonder whether this second motion, which is very large, will only be included in the Tourist Rental Act or whether it will be further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u286	If I've got it right in my head, it's gonna go along with this proposal. Mr Koerhuis, who was also involved in these motions, believes that too, so in committee I think I am right. I hope to be able to reassure Mrs Beckerman on that point. Then there is Mr Ronnes' question, on which he has also tabled a motion, but it is a good thing to answer that question first. That was the question about the Civil Code and the Implementing Law rents in relation to the climate agreement. His question was actually very simple: when will it come? I outlined in my first term, but that was perhaps a little short, that the cabinet will come to the Chamber at the end of the year with a legislative calendar, including this issue. Specifically for the part that Mr Ronnes is asking for, we do the preparation and coordination with all the parties involved: Aedes, Woonbond, Vastgoedbehoud et cetera. At the end of the year, the Chamber will gain more insight into it, thanks to that legislative calendar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u287	Mr Ronnes has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u288	It's fine to have a calendar, to have an overview of what comes when, but I think it's good that we do that quickly. Is there no indication at all about this adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u289	We're trying to give some sort of integral overview. Specifically for these parts, I would also like to send a separate letter, which is referred to in the letter from the Minister of EZK, with the planning of the package of regulations under the climate agreement for which I am responsible. Then it can become clear what goes down in legislative proposals and what the planning is like, including the Council of State and everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u290	Having heard this answer, I will at least continue the motion at this time. I think that's a nice thing to do. But we're going to see if that law will be implemented in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u291	I appreciate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u292	At the request of Mr Ronnes, I propose his motion (22847, No. 569). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u293	Yes. Then I'm going back to the motion on part number one. 557 by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u294	I can see Mr Smeulders standing by the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u295	I asked in first and second terms when the cabinet response will come to our own initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u296	Oh! Mr President, I have answered that question, but perhaps Mr Smeulders has not heard it. With shame on my jaws, almost, I said that Mr Smeulders can expect it in the next two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u297	That's then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u298	He has now led me to pronounce it again with that same shame red. Exactly. In the meantime, however, I have received a nice booklet from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u299	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u300	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mr Nijboer asked the government to refrain from reducing the maximum income limit. I think Mr Nijboer, given the discussion that we have just had and given the legal treatment that is coming, will understand that I can only discourage this motion here. Again, for speed, I'll leave it at that. The second motion tabled by Mr Nijboer, the motion tabled by Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the Group of the Of course, that's a pretty intense procedure. I am very concerned that such an intervention would slow down the new building. I will come back soon, this autumn, to the effect of the emergency button. I'm always looking for a balance between affordability and offer. I actually want to look at the series of Princess' Day measures, but then it would be obvious to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u301	The motion in part No. 558 is not recommended. You do have another question, Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u302	Yeah, about the motion in part No. 557, and in particular the Minister's argument. The Minister said: you have to look at it in conjunction and more houses need to be built. The Minister referred to the debate, so with that argument I have to do it: yes, fewer people are eligible, but yes, yes, there must be more houses. That's what I thought... The Minister himself does not think that is convincing either, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u303	Well, of course I do, if that's the question. No, I really mean that. Mr Nijboer knows very well the whole palette that lies there. He knows the system, the workings of actually the entire population housing. Well, let me just call it that. There are several instruments. There are several buttons you can turn on. It is very important that you keep seeing it in conjunction and that you don't do something on the one hand that will push people away on the other hand or push them away on the same housing market. Nor is that what Mr Nijboer is trying to do, but that could be the effect of what he is arguing here. So I'm sticking with the dissuading of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u304	Then there's the third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u305	Then the third motion, the motion in part No. 559. That is also a motion by Mr Nijboer. My aim is, of course, to have sufficient affordable housing as soon as possible. We must be realistic: of course, they cannot be realized overnight, just as it would not be possible to indicate exactly when that moment took place. We have to do everything we can. We have to build, we have to set up the system properly. It is about households with a relatively higher income, for example one and a half times the average. I believe that it contributes to affordability and I therefore advise against this motion. I shall now come to Mrs Beckerman's motion on item No. 560. That's kind of the same story. It wants to abolish the income-dependent rent increase. In fact, I have just argued why I do not think that is obvious. I advise against this motion. Mr Kops proposed that no more expensive climate measures should be taken, but affordable housing should be built. Affordability is important, but sustainability is also important. This also applies to tenants, who also benefit from it, who get more living comfort and for whom, if possible, the costs will also be reduced. I do not recommend the motion because the figures show that the landlords can handle the planned investments in the short and medium term. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kops asked the government by means of the motion in part No. 562 to reduce rents in the corporation sector. I am not in favour of that. In my opinion, a general reduction in the rent is going beyond its objective. The rental policy is made by the corporations. They make agreements with tenants and municipalities. I'd like to keep it that way. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 563 by Mr Krol. He had the impression that the ongoing research into the elderly might not pay sufficient attention to the benefits of living together. I'm willing to look at this. But I'd really like to do that with SZW, because it's also about things like the cost sharing standard. I'd like to include it in what's already going on. If Mr Krol can get rid of that explanation, so the combination with SZW and ongoing investigations, then I am prepared to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u306	I see Mr Krol nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u307	Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 564 by Mr Koerhuis on an investigation into people on the waiting lists: to what extent do they really want to qualify for a social housing? It's a research motion that seems to have the purpose of limiting the waiting lists. In terms of waiting lists, we have a problem, because there are many people who cannot afford a long search time. So I'm willing to take Aedes, the House Union and the VNG to see what's possible. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Mr Smeulders (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Nibud's research gives a lot of insight, but I find it very difficult to define what is "acceptable." I think that will be difficult on the basis of Nibud's research. This also depends very much on the individual situation and the personal circumstances. It is difficult to apply a general standard for this. I think we already know a lot. Again, that Nibud research and other data such as CBS figures etc. are simply available. So I do not have the impression that we could add much more to this. But again, the definition of "acceptable quote" is also a reason for me to discourage this motion. Mrs Van Eijs has the motion in part No. 566 submitted. That motion is about the measures in the Climate Agreement that are seen by tenants. I think it is a sympathetic motion, which actually fits very well with the Climate Agreement and its elaboration. We are going to talk about this later. I would actually suggest to Mrs Van Eijs that I take over the motion if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u308	Then I would like to ask the Members whether there is any objection to taking over the motion. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u309	Okay, great! Then the motion to part No. 567 by Mrs Van Eijs. I would like to suggest that we hold the motion for a resolution, as Mr Ronnes has just done with the motion on part No. 569. If, at some point in time, she was given the overall overview of the package of measures relating to the Climate Agreement, then perhaps this is also the time when Mrs Van Eijs can properly assess whether she thinks it is still necessary to bring this to the fore. So my suggestion to her is to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u310	I see Mrs Van Eijs nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u311	Very good. Then the motion to part No. 568 by Mr Ronnes, who is asking for an independent inquiry. If I understand Mr Ronnes correctly, and others have said it, then we really want as much insight as possible into the Vpb contribution of the corporations and the effect of the ATAD. Those are numbers from the IRS. That's where they come from. The letter on the investment space of the corporations that will be here in two weeks' time will also provide these figures from the tax authorities' attacks. Since that letter is there in the very short term and I am convinced that it will provide more insight, and that is what the Chamber is asking for, I would suggest to Mr Ronnes that we hold this motion until then, so that is not for very long and then consider whether he still considers his question to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u312	I will look at Mr Ronnes to see if he agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u313	Mr President, I have not yet reached that stage. I'd like to have a good look at what we're doing with it with my colleagues. Time is running out and it's just good to have the facts clear. Let me take a look at the matter; we can always withdraw the motion for a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u314	What is the Minister's opinion if the motion is going to be put to the vote on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u315	I do not think I should answer that, but I would also like to consult with you. This is also reflected in what my colleagues in the Finance Committee are doing. It's partly their responsibility, too. It is also data provided by the Tax Administration. So I really need to have a say on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u316	You have a suggestion, Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u317	I can make a suggestion. We have Tuesday votes. The Minister may always send a letter with an opinion on the motion before the vote. I am in favour of the motion; you will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u318	I think it is a good thing that the Minister sends us that appreciation in writing, if she so wishes. It doesn't sound like a rocket science to me, so I think it's possible to calculate if someone sits down for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u319	Does Mr Koerhuis have any other suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u320	The Minister just summarized the motion a little bit. The part about mapping the ATAD is fine with me, but the motion says more. Mr Ronnes and I had just had a little debate. The CDA turns left and is concerned about the total burden on corporations, but apparently not about homeowners. I wouldn't like the cabinet to turn left here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u321	Let me make it easy for everyone. I asked the petitioner whether it would be difficult for him to hold the motion until he had the latest figures, about the letter he received about the so-called IBW, the investment area. He takes that into consideration, but can't decide yet, because he wants to have a spinal address. I understand. I said I actually need back-spoke, but I can't right now. I can, of course, undertake a letter, but that is a bit crazy, because I do not know exactly what Mr Ronnes is doing with his motion. Maybe he'll respond to my request to hold the motion. It seems fairer to me to say that holding on seems a good option, but if I have to give a judgment now, on the basis of the knowledge I have now, I would advise against the motion, because I think that the figures on which we should base ourselves should be the figures of the Tax Administration. If there's a difference of opinion, and that's what's going on with Aedes and the housing corporations, then we're gonna have that conversation. I do not rule out the possibility that we will bring in other experts if it appears necessary somewhere on that route, but it is really going too far for me to decide on this at this stage. I therefore very much hope that Mr Ronnes will wish to continue the motion until after the letter on the investment area has arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u322	That is what Mr Ronnes will tell us before the votes, but if the motion is put to the vote, then the verdict is 'dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u323	Yes. The motion in part No. 569 is under arrest. The last motion I have before me is the motion in part No. 570. It belongs to Mrs Dik-Faber, co-signed by Mr Ronnes. It calls for an investigation. I referred just now to the debate during the General Reviews on the high rental prices and the motion that was then tabled by PvdA and CDA. That motion, of course, wants to try to implement the cabinet in line with the broad approach; I was just talking about the broad approach of good landlordship. I could try to combine this motion with that. I would point out, however, that if the motion is adopted and we are going to conduct this investigation, you must see whether or not there will be all kinds of stacking measures. In short, with some restraint, I would like to give the House's opinion on the motion for a resolution, with the observation that I am not in favour of the accumulation of measures. But I am prepared to carry out the motion in order to give an insight into the possibilities and the impossibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u324	I'll take a look at the petitioner. Can she live with the Minister's interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u325	My group very much wants that insight. Of course, we are open to the results of the investigation. We'll take a good look at that. I expressly included in the operative part of the motion the words 'or' and 'how'. I'm open to the results of the investigation. Let's at least map it carefully and see what's possible. Maybe we can take a step!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u326	Good. It's a good thing that's fixed for the Acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u327	I would like to thank the Minister and Members for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u328	The vote will take place next Tuesday.
