ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35013, the legislative proposal Amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act to accelerate housing and facilitate sustainable development, such as the sustainability of energy use. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Earthema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Madam President. The current legislative proposal to amend the Crisis and Recovery Act has two objectives: speeding up housing and facilitating sustainable development. It is also our group's wish that many and, above all, affordable housing should be added in the short term. First of all, you should stop giving away homes to status holders and the current priority policy, but that goes beyond this subject. Unless you provide smooth and adequate solutions to housing problems in the Groningen earthquake zone, to name but a few. Mr. Chairman. This proposal is mainly about speeding up the process, allowing you to build more homes in a shorter period of time. With the current pressure on housing needs, our party could go a long way with that. However, the Crisis and Recovery Act is an instrument to deviate from existing legislation. It's a transitional law to the new Environment Act. Some also call it "a transition law." Then you have to be careful: first we come up with laws and then a new law to be able to deviate from those rules. That gives us time to think. What are the consequences of this? What is left of the right to self-determination in respect of a home or a house to be built? We see that the power to take project decisions will lie with the college of B and W and will be removed from the city council. This allows a city council to independently push through a new construction plan, even by way of derogation from an existing zoning plan. Our group believes that this power should really remain with the local parliament. So there is no erosion of democratic legitimacy. We supported an amendment to that effect in the House of Representatives, but that was unfortunately rejected. For the council, then, only the issuing of a declaration of no objection remains. But that is hardly to be refused, because "in the interests of good spatial planning" is a stretchable concept and that is the only condition. I even read in the bill that the College of B and W will soon be able to identify categories in which no explanation of the Council's doubts is required. Apparently, the need is so high that you have to be able to take short blows and take the city council out of play. We certainly do not want that. I ask the Minister once again to explain why she thinks that is so important. Let me turn to the second objective, perhaps the most important one: to facilitate sustainable development. You can also say: to drive it forward. That is what the emphasis is on. With the amendment of this law, the energy transition will soon become the core criterion, i.e. the mandatory application of expensive climate measures in the building of homes and residential areas. Does the Minister share our view that this will have a price increase effect and undermine the aforementioned right of self-determination over one's own home? Our group also wonders whether the expensive measures imposed will have a climate effect. The effect of 0.007oC less warming is totally negligible and physically even virtually unmeasurable. It's pretty sure it's gonna cost a lot of extra money. For example, we can already see in the documents what the financial effects are for the now mandatory gas-free construction. There will be greater pressure on electricity infrastructure. It also clearly states that this is passed on to the network operator's tariffs. This simply means that it is going to have to be much more expensive; for the citizen to understand. Mr President, I will conclude positively. Our group also wants more and better housing to be built; so far we are going along. But pushing through the energy transition through this change of law and the builders, and especially the potential house buyers, at a cost, we find undesirable and we do not want to. In the opinion of our group, it would be much better to use the money that is now being invested in the energy transition for the construction of new homes. Houses must remain affordable in particular. We are not yet convinced by this Minister that this will be the case. In addition, I have referred earlier to the erosion of the democratic process in the formulation of the project decisions. As far as we are concerned, there are some objections. Perhaps the Minister could take this into account in her reply. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Earthema. I now press the vote, because I am about to give the floor to Mrs Gout-van Sinderen. This is her maiden speech. The vote bell means that everyone is called to be present. I've pressed it now. Mrs Gout, you have the floor. You know you can't be interrupted during your maiden speech. That should give a lot of certainty, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u5	Madam President. Thank you for the floor. It is an honor for me to be able to give my maiden speech today on issues that are close to my heart when it comes to market separation. Accelerating housing and facilitating sustainable development are the reasons for the proposed changes to the Crisis and Recovery Act. First of all, I would like to mention the absolute need to speed up housing. In the State of the Housing Market 2018, the facts are listed. In order to meet the growing demand for housing, 75 000 homes per year have to be built up until 2025. This results in a total construction estimate of 450,000 homes over the next six years. By 2030, the number of households will have increased to 8.5 million. For the provinces this results in the task of increasing current housing stock by more than 700,000 homes. So after 2025 and before 2030, an additional 250,000 homes will have to be added. The construction assignment is urgent and diverse. Not all provinces have sufficient planning capacity. For example, the province of Zuid-Holland is facing the challenge of completing the plans for the period after 2024 for the medium and long term. The sustainability of the built environment is an important part of the energy transition. The mobility that goes hand in hand with the realization of the enormous construction task we are facing is an issue that needs to be addressed in the plans. Here too, the energy transition plays an important role. Mr President, since this is a proposal to amend a law, I would like to go through the various amendments, but only after I have made a comment on the name of the law. The Crisis and Recovery Act owes its name to the economic crisis in which our country was at the time of the treatment and adoption of the law. There was talk of serious economic conditions, of recession and, where possible, of the adoption of structural strengthening measures. The economic crisis now seems to be far behind us, ten years later. After a high growth rate, we are now in a situation of what the Central Planning Bureau calls normal economic growth; of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product for 2019. As you know, the Planning Bureau is looking ahead. The CBS came this week with a growth rate of 1.7% for the first quarter compared to last year. However, the name Crisis and Recovery Act is still appropriate. Many house seekers in our country certainly experience a sense of crisis when there is still no suitable accommodation available in the rental sector after years of waiting. Or starters who are constantly fishing behind the net for their first store, because there is insufficient supply of affordable properties in large parts of our country. These changes to the law should contribute to restoring this undesirable imbalance between supply and demand. So, crisis and recovery, but different. Mr President, now for the proposed amendments. First of all, the extension of the scope for use of the project implementation decision. The amendments should make the use of the project implementation decision more attractive. The proposed shift from the board's power to the mayor's and aldermen's college to take a project decision is important. This is done after the Board gives a statement of no reservations. It also provides for the possibility of setting up a phaser in the project implementation decision. My question to the Minister concerns the combination of these changes. Is it true that in the event of a phasing-out at each stage, the Council must give a statement of no reservations before the College of Mayors and aldermen can take decisions? Does not the introduction of the possibility of phasing place the risk of delay rather than the intended acceleration? Secondly, the technical amendment to Article 2.3. In certain cases, the College may waive the requirement to provide a statement of no objections by the Board, where it would not have been necessary in the regular procedure. My question to the Minister is whether this amendment is unambiguous for municipalities wishing to make use of the Crisis and Recovery Act. Will democratic control be guaranteed by the city council? Thirdly, the acceleration of the designation procedure. The bill states that if there is a desire to add a new area or project to an existing experiment, this can take place per ministerial arrangement instead of the usual AMvB. This adjustment, according to the explanatory memorandum, results in an acceleration of at least seven months. The Advisory Section of the Council of State is negative about this. In the response to the D66 Group's question on this point, the government states, inter alia, that the experiment is the derogation from legislation and regulation and not the addition of the concrete project or area to the experimental scheme. My question to the Minister is whether governments that want to get to work on an experiment are sufficiently knowledgeable and competent to follow the proper procedure. How will information on the change take place? Mr President, I come to the last two proposals for amendments. The modification of the designation procedure. The initial requirement of meeting the cumulative criteria is adjusted. What needs to be met now? An experiment should contribute to sustainability, contribute to innovation and contribute to the fight against the economic crisis. The fact that this cumulation of criteria is being adjusted is a good thing, even if it is only for the simple reason that we are not in an economic crisis at the moment. The proposed definition that an experiment should comply with sustainable development and contribute to economic structural strengthening, or contribute to sustainable development and is innovative, is warmly supported by the D66 Group. The urgency of accelerating housing is clear to everyone. The combination with sustainability and the energy transition makes the task challenging, but not impossible. Here too, however, the question arises as to how far there is sufficient knowledge and expertise at local level. Is there sufficient knowledge of the rules to make good use of the new opportunities for municipalities wishing to participate in experiments falling within the scope of the Crisis and Recovery Act? Finally, the proposal to broaden the scope of the Crisis and Recovery Act. More laws are added to the Crisis and Recovery Act from which derogations can be made. This is still future music, because of course no experiments have yet been requested to which this broadening applies. Of course, the AMvB procedure will apply to this. Madam President, I will conclude. The experiments that make the Crisis and Recovery Act possible, now and later, are a good preparation for the new Environment Act. My final question to the Minister is how she thinks to include the lessons learned from this exercise in the implementation of the Environment Act. With interest, the D66 Group awaits the Minister's response to our questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Gout. Would you stand still for a moment? Congratulations on your maiden speech. As far as I can tell, we are very rarely, perhaps never, witnessing another maiden speech two weeks before the last part-session of a parliamentary term. It has everything to do with the fact that you only recently joined this Chamber on 12 March 2019. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied general economics at Erasmus University in Rotterdam. During your working period, a few years later, you attended the cycle spécial étranger course in Paris at the École Nationale d'Administration, the ENA. That ENA is currently threatened with closure by the French President Macron, but that aside. Your social career, given that last education, is not entirely surprising, in the interest of the public sector. For example, between 1980 and 2011 you were connected to several departments: Economic Affairs, Transport and Water State and Defence. During that period you have also been director and deputy director of the province of South Holland for several years. From 2011 to 2014, you were chairman of ProRail's board of directors. Since 2015, you have been General Manager of Medical Specialists North West. In addition, you are chairman of the Supervisory Board of Pension Fund Flying Staff KLM I always find that so exciting: flying staff Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Royal Society for the Promotion of Dentistry and Chairman of Cultuurpodium Boerderij Zoetermeer. That latter function stems from your predilection for visiting pop concerts, because in your words "you then step out of your normal life full of obligations". You're nodding, so it's true. Before D66 you were previously a member of the Committee on International Affairs and Chairman of the Wassenaar department. In March 2018 you were elected as a member of the city council in Wassenaar and since March 2019, as I mentioned, you have been a member of the First Chamber of the States General. Once again, welcome. I shall suspend the sitting to give the House the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but only after I have done so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u7	I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr President. From a maiden speech I congratulate Mrs Gout-van Sinderen warmly on this, we are going to a valedictory lecture, because this will certainly be my last oral contribution to a debate in this house. It is, in a sense, a twist of history that one of the first issues I was confronted with in my group when I joined this Chamber in 2009 was the Crisis and Recovery Act, which at the time was designed to speed up projects in the sphere of construction and infrastructure, in order to combat acute unemployment in key sectors of the economy. Ten years later, we are again talking about this law, but now we are talking about an adjustment to promote sustainability and housing, which is now acute social challenges. And not just that. Today, we are debating the Crisis and Recovery Act and are also contributing to the handling of the environmental law. For me, after ten years of the First Chamber, that is a bit of a final thesis and a graduation talk in one day, although I understand that some colleagues are trying to postpone the final work. In that respect, too, there is not much news under the sun. So much for a single reflection. Now the Crisis and Recovery Act. I am speaking on behalf of the Christian Union in this contribution. Fortunately, the fight against the economic crisis is no longer on the agenda. It is now about sustainability, energy transition and speeding up the construction process. I have already given it to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In this sense, we have no major objections to the law either. There are still a few questions. To begin with, there is a link between the present law and the Environment Act. The Crisis and Recovery Act expires when the Environment Act is introduced. A number of plans and legal figures from the Environment Act are already possible under the Crisis and Recovery Act. I ask the Minister, is that correct? Experiments that become possible with the amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act are given a place in the Environment Act. The government says it hopes to learn from these experiences. Now governments and governments in general are not so strong in taking lessons quickly, if only because this implies a certain recognition that it might have been better or different in the past. In that respect, I am very curious about what has been learned from the experiences with the Crisis and Recovery Act and how they have been translated, or are going to be translated, into the Environment Act and everything related to it. We'd like to hear a reflection from the minister on that. Mr. Chairman. Remarkable is that the government, speaking of experiments, does what is cryptic about the control group. It would, of course, be nice if, in addition to projects or areas covered by the operation of the experiments, there were a number of similar situations in which, according to the current, old RO law, work is carried out. Then there is a real control group, and you can compare experiences and draw conclusions. But is there or is there no control group? And is there also a scientific way of looking at experiments? This is not clear from the answers to questions from my group in the report. In the successive sentences on page 3 of the reply, it is first stated that there is a control group, but then that there is no explicit work. Well, what's in it for you, then, I'd think. It is then said that all non-participating municipalities can be seen as the control group. That doesn't make it any clearer. Is there or isn't there an extra control group? And is it systematically compared with the advantages and disadvantages, successes or failures of the old and the new methods? If we do not do that, as I fear, it seems a bit like the word 'experiment' is a covert term for the possibility of speeding up projects, ignoring a number of possibilities for participation, objection or appeal. I suspect that around the windmills in East Drenthe and East Groningen, for example, that last feeling prevails among the population. It is all the more important to hear more about this because, for example, participation stands or falls with the way it is done. Participation is a very important theme in the Environment Act. See the comments in the report to be submitted today or tomorrow. Very general, open or also laisser-faire participation sounds nice, but in general does not yield much, we have understood by now. In short, precisely the experimental character of the Crisis and Recovery Act, including the legislative amendment now proposed, could provide good opportunities to learn important lessons for the forthcoming Environment Act. But then you have to see the experiments as such, with all the conditions attached, and not as a cover to realize projects faster. We would like to hear a response from the Minister. And in so far as experiments are not really regarded as experiments, is the Minister prepared to do so, to have systematic research carried out, and to include the lessons explicitly in the decision-making and implementation of the Environmental Act? This proposal will make it possible to add projects or areas to existing experiments under ministerial regulation. There will be no new experiment, but an already ongoing experiment will be repeated in another place. From a scientific perspective, always interesting. All the more reason to take seriously the evaluation advocated for this, but that aside. In this case, therefore, it is not a question of new forms of experimentation, which are still being submitted to Parliament through a general measure of governance. It is about democratic control in the expansion of ongoing experiments with new projects or areas. The government is not so clear about this and our groups would like to know more about it. There is no obligation to pre-publish the ministerial regulation in these additions, but because, as the government says, participation in an experiment requires, I quote, "most of the time a decision by a decentralised government is still needed, and a reaction to a participation, views or objections can be submitted to it, involvement of citizens and other stakeholders is guaranteed in the concrete decision'. We think that's skinny, in two ways. First of all, therefore, the decision to add a project to an ongoing experiment is not explicitly subject to approval or any other form of discussion in an elected representation. And in the second place we don't like that word "mostly," because that doesn't mean "always." On this point, we would like the procedure to be tightened up, for example, so that the addition to an experiment is always explicitly submitted for approval by the relevant municipal or state council, which can also indicate how it intends to be involved in the concrete decision. For example, the Minister can involve this as a criterion in the assessment of her consent to the addition to the experiment. I would like to hear what possibilities the Minister sees for this. Finally, the acceleration of housing projects. Our colleagues in the House of Representatives have reduced the lower limit for the number of houses to be involved if such participation in the experiment is to be possible, to six homes. This is a good thing; the successful realisation of small housing projects certainly improves the quality of life in the rural parts of our country. So we have no questions about that. However, the realisation of such projects would in many cases also benefit if a local housing corporation could contribute to this, not only by realising social housing, but also sometimes by taking a small step further to improve the project as a whole, or having a greater success rate. And then corporations sometimes run into the very strict rules that apply in that field today. Now that the Minister with whom we are debating today is also dealing with housing corporations, I cannot resist the temptation to ask the Minister, somewhat outside the scope of the present bill, whether the time is not ripe to check whether, while maintaining the demands for careful management of resources in the social housing sphere, we could delete some harsh rules in this area. Mr President, with this remark outside the framework of the law, which I hope you will forgive me if I tell you that I will never do it again, I will conclude my contribution and await with interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Flierman. I understand that Mr Binnema is still stuck in a traffic jam. So I'm gonna hold off on giving him the floor. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u10	Madam President, thank you very much. As of 2009, members of the VVD Group have been in favour of the objectives and legal possibilities contained in the Crisis and Recovery Act and its subsequent amendments and additions. The aim is always to accelerate slow and complex decision-making in infrastructure and other major construction projects and in sustainability, energy and innovation projects. Originally referred to as temporary legislation to bridge the economic and financial crisis years, this legislation, with ever-new additions, has proved more than its usefulness in recent years. "Combating the crisis" is now becoming "contributing to economic structural strengthening" with a focus on sustainable development and innovation. Madam President. The economy is attracting a lot and developments are moving fast. The current legal rules are not yet sufficiently focused on sustainable development, regional differences, tailor-made work in concrete areas and projects, participation, and early involvement of stakeholders. The Environment Act will provide for this. In anticipation of this, the draft law before us gives us a few additional opportunities in these areas, while, of course, preserving the legal protection of citizens and businesses. This temporary legislation has thus become increasingly permanent in administrative and environmental law. The Crisis and Recovery Act, and many for me also said so, is now also being seen and applied as a transition law on the way to the new Environment Act. The law will also deal with this, according to the current schedule on 1 January 2021. In this way, public authorities and, in particular, municipalities can experiment even better. The members of the VVD Group support this approach and thus also the points of amendment presented by this legislative amendment. On behalf of the members of my group, I would briefly like to highlight two points which have led to a little more discussion. With the aim of accelerating the designation procedure, new areas and projects can now be added to existing experiments on the basis of a ministerial arrangement rather than at AMvB. These are areas in which experiments may already be carried out in the context of the extended zoning plan. Existing experiments have been established at AMvB. These existing experiments have gone through the normal process of pre-publication, preparation and advice of the Advisory Section of the Council of State. At AMvB level, it has already been established which parts of the Wro, the Wabo, the Environmental Management Act et cetera can be deviated from when carrying out the experiment in question. In this process, therefore, full use and necessity of the derogation from legislation and regulation and the fulfilment of the necessary criteria can be weighed. The Ministerial Arrangement shall assess whether a project or area to be designated is within the framework and objective of the already existing experiment. That's gonna speed it up for at least seven months. That is certainly good news for housing projects. This need is confirmed by the study published on 13 May by the Economic Institute for Construction. This concludes that there are not enough construction plans to reduce the shortage of housing markets, and we read that almost daily, of course. The members of the VVD Group support the government on this point and are therefore not afraid of any kind of excrement. On the basis of an amendment adopted, the list of criteria of projects to be eligible for this possibility, the criterion of compliance with the structural vision or the zoning plan has been added. The role of the city council is also guaranteed, because it can decide with a zoning plan with extended scope whether or not to give a statement of no reservations. Then there is the second point I would like to focus briefly on. A decision under the Nature Protection Act does not need to go through a separate decision-making process anymore and is included in the project implementation decision. The province remains involved in issuing a declaration of no reservations. The VVD is also satisfied with this acceleration option. Madam President, concluding. The members of the VVD Group consider the legislative proposal before us to be legitimate, enforceable, enforceable and unimportant. These Members are curious about the government's reaction to the debate. There must be very dramatic developments if the VVD is not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr President. We have before us an amendment to a law which the Party for Animals has previously referred to as the Crisis and Accelerated Act. The Crisis and Recovery Act allowed derogations from existing national legislation, in particular environmental legislation, at the time of the financial crisis, in order to stimulate economic growth. Administrative procedures were also stripped so that plans could be implemented more quickly. The interests of nature and the environment, which are already scarce in national legislation, and democratic control were further subordinated to the economic importance. Temporarily, yes. Unfortunately, the promise of temporaryity was not kept, because in 2014 the crisis was made permanent by making this law permanent. Thanks to this law, for example, after 63 years the asphalt won over the natural interests and health of residents in the conflict over the piece A4 through nature in Central Delfland. Mr. Chairman. Now there is a proposal that allows even more deviation from democratically created laws and even more acceleration of administrative procedures, this time specifically to encourage housing and sustainable development. The bill contains a number of drastic adjustments. This extends the scope of the project implementation decision. Such a decision could involve a project of 12 to 2,000 homes. This decision replaces all kinds of different authorisations, such as building permits, but also, for example, clearing permits that would otherwise have been required. This instrument can reduce the authorisation procedure by one year, because there is an appeal in one body. The power to take a project implementing decision from the city council also shifts to the college of mayor and aldermen. The city council will continue to be sidelined. The proposal further provides that the addition of new areas or projects to existing experiments may now take place under ministerial arrangements rather than under general administrative measures. It also broadens the eligibility criteria for new derogations from legislation and allows derogations from more laws than before. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals' objections to the way environmental law is set up are piling up. There is an ever-increasing economicisation of our living environment. Ecological values such as species wealth, trees and clean air, are no longer appreciated on their own. They are undermining and have no voice, so the quality of life on earth also runs backwards in the Netherlands. The amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act shows a one-sided and short-sighted policy vision with harmful consequences. As Albert Goudberg said: "The earth is about in all its joints cracking through our excellent production processes, and yet that continuous, short-sighted glorification and boasting about economic growth. Does that make you so sick?" Mr. Chairman. I will confine myself to a few specific objections from my group to the proposal before us. Our main objection is that the adverse effects of all deviations and procedural accelerations on the environment have not or hardly been investigated. Airports, stretches of highway through nature reserves, large-scale housing alongside activity, manure digesters near homes: the list of experiments and projects is very disturbing. It all becomes easier and faster with the Crisis and Recovery Act, resulting in more noise, more smell, more unhealthy air and more CO emissions. In order to drive economic growth, other interests are put at a disadvantage. So far, the government has not had any analysis of the environmental impact of the current Crisis and Recovery Act and of the projects carried out under this regime. The legal consequences of this law have been examined purely. The effect of even more expansion can be guessed. Now that further derogations are being proposed, it is astonishing that no independent analysis has been carried out on the impact on the physical environment of what the Minister calls "the physical environment." Not even a quick scan! My question to the Minister is: have we overlooked investigations? What role does the Minister see for himself in protecting that physical environment? How does she handle this task? Does it agree with the Animal Party that the impact on the environment of these drastic changes to the Crisis Act should at least be evaluated? I'd like a response. Specifically, the Party for Animals is concerned about whether or not to carry out an environmental impact assessment in the project implementation decision. The Commission for the m.e.r. rightly points out that it is unclear in practice whether a project implementation decision is subject to reporting or assessment. This may mean that no environmental impact assessment is wrongly carried out on projects which may have significant environmental consequences. Think of extra traffic, nitrogen emissions or noise. How will the Minister prevent an environmental test from being carried out on projects which are harmful to the environment? Mr. Chairman. My group's third concern is the extension of criteria where a derogation from legislation and regulation has to comply, the modification of the designation procedure. This legislative proposal proposes that new experiments can be identified when the experiment contributes to sustainable development, contributes to economic structural strengthening or contributes to sustainable development and is innovative. In particular, we wonder how the concept of sustainable development is implemented. The Brundtland Commission defined the concept of sustainable development as meeting the needs of the present generation without thereby compromising the possibility for future generations to meet their needs. This definition of sustainable development has since been accepted worldwide. In this legislative proposal, the government agrees with this definition and further states in the explanatory statement that sustainable development includes a clean environment and a sustainable energy supply, as well as the competitiveness of our economy, employment and the financial system, both in the Netherlands and elsewhere in the world. Mr. Chairman. I miss the ecological aspects in this explanatory statement. The government gives the impression that nature has no value in itself. More interesting is how the concept of sustainability under the Crisis and Recovery Act has so far taken shape. We can see this in the 2016-2017 progress report. Much depends on the definition of sustainability in implementation practice. For example, one of the sustainable projects included in this progress report is a new outskirts to ensure that the centre of the municipality of Heeze-Leende has less cars to handle. That sounds nice, but for the extra road 35 adult oaks have been cut down and can be assumed, the nitrogen deposition in the adjacent Natura 2000 sites increases. There is more asphalt and tree hood. So this is what is made possible under the Crisis and Recovery Act under the guise of sustainability. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister state clearly how she herself views the concept of sustainable development, as it is now used in the legislative proposal? Does it assess the construction of biomass plants and manure digesters, which are made possible in the project category list, Annex 1 of the Crisis and Recovery Act, including as sustainable development? A secret report by the D.A. from 2016 shows that in this sector there is indeed large-scale environmental and subsidy fraud, without intervention, while the situation is still worrying. Why did you have to keep that report confidential? Is the Cabinet prepared to share that with the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that developers have given the term "sustainability" its own meaning. In no way are the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement linked, for example, to the new criteria for projects. The question is, therefore, whether this bill contributes to sustainable development if we look specifically at CO emissions. It might as well be increased by increasing housing. My group lacks a clear framework in the legislative proposal to ensure that the concept of sustainable development does not become a hollow phrase. How will the Minister prevent this bill from facilitating projects that are contrary to international agreements? I am referring here to the climate agreement. New areas or concrete projects can now be added to the ministerial arrangements in previous experiments at AMvB. The cabinet also wants to be able to decide on the designation of development areas and local and supraregional projects of national importance in future under ministerial arrangements. This means that the democratic legitimacy and legal certainty of groups other than project developers is more likely to deteriorate. Mr. Chairman. In its opinion, the Council of State has also strongly discouraged this. Review should be carried out at AMvB level, even when it comes to adding new experiments to existing experiments. My question is why do the qualitative considerations made by the Council of State weigh less heavily on the Minister than the time argument? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Such a far-reaching legislative proposal on the physical environment should not be an unnecessary luxury for citizens, civil society organisations and other stakeholders, and should be careful about speed. Can the Minister argue why she has not opted for a consultation round? Mr President, I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I see that Mr Binnema has now come back in. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologize for my late entry. The advantage of the livestream is that I have heard a lot of the contributions so far. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Gout-Van Sinderen on her maiden speech. The law we are discussing here today has changed colour and character on a regular basis in recent years. The terms "crisis" and "restoration" still remind us of the financial and economic crisis that led the then Balkenende cabinet in 2009 to come up with this law. Mr Flierman also referred to it. Large spatial and infrastructure projects had to be accelerated in order to move towards economic recovery. Knowing today, we can see that the contribution of that law was limited, because the cause of the crisis was much deeper and more fundamental than complicated or lengthy procedures, which was also recognised by then Minister Schultz, when in this house in March 2013 the debate was on making the Crisis and Recovery Act permanent. That debate six years ago was about the need to give a law which was intended as a temporary act, according to the advocates, the law was needed to temporarily deviate from legislation and regulations in order to deal with the crisis. While it was still possible to say in 2013 that the Netherlands was still in the process of economic recovery, that argument is far less applicable in 2019. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance realizes that, contrary to our wishes, that law has been made permanent and that it does not make much sense to call it into question today. What we do want to call into question is the once again new argument under the change we are discussing today. A law in which deviations have become more and more the norm rather than the exception. The first type of argument emphasizes the Crisis and Recovery Act as an exercise with and preparation for the Environment Act. An argument that also played in 2013, when expected to be there in January 2017. The second type of argument is based on the shift from the focus on economic recovery to sustainable development and the drive for housing. In today's amendment, this means adding even more laws that can be derogated from and extending experimental possibilities. With regard to the opportunities for municipalities to get to know the instruments and possibilities of the environmental law, there are obviously many other forms, such as pilots and pilot projects, which are conceivable for practice. The use of the Crisis and Recovery Act continues to seem a bit sought-after. On the other hand, under the assumption that the Environment Act will enter into force in 2021 and in a number of ways will follow up on what is happening in the Crisis and Recovery Act, there is little to the effect that governments are going to exercise and prepare themselves well. My group's serious objections are therefore more in the second character change of the Crisis and Recovery Act: the shift of targets and the sneaking increase in the number of laws that can be deviated and the reduced grip of both stakeholders and the parliament in the experiments, areas and projects. The explanatory memorandum stresses the importance of building more houses. Does the Minister agree with us that there are many more factors than rules and procedures? It sounds a bit in the written response by................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Secondly, on the basis of what research or evaluation does the Minister consider that the proposed changes to the Crisis and Recovery Act will actually lead to more and faster building? We always read the same examples: Soesterberg-Noord, the Binckhorst and until recently the Hembrug terrain in Zaanstad, which can now be removed from the list. As Mr Flierman said: there seems to be no more systematic evaluation, especially since the majority of municipalities do not use the potential of the Crisis and Recovery Act. Would there indeed be a good basis for comparison here? As a new central element, the concept of sustainable development is introduced, combined with innovation or economic strengthening. Mrs Teunissen referred to it as well. On paper, the connection made to the Brundtland definition is not wrong in itself: a development that meets the needs of today's generations without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. But how does that work out in practice? Not only is such a definition, already more than 30 years old, very general, but in addition, a large number of experiments have already been included in the current law in which new projects will soon be able to get a place without being explicitly assessed in relation to the aspect of sustainable development. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then the extension of the possibilities for experimenting. The Government recognises that the current Crisis and Recovery Act, the underlying implementing rules and also the progress reports do not always make the distinction between experiments, projects or areas so clear. In fact, as far as we are concerned, this bill and the nineteenth tranche of the Decision implementing Crisis and Recovery Act are still valid, if only because the concept of "experiment" applies to many different types of deviation and is linked to different objectives. On the one hand we see a fairly general experiment: the zoning-plus, a zoning plan with a broad scope. On the other hand, we see very concrete experiments, linked to waste, to smell or to environmental performance. There are experiments spread across the country or different provinces and experiments linked to one specific area. As far as we are concerned, and we expect that this will not change so quickly in the future. The government's answer to our question about these experiments is not convincing. In the law, we add laws from which we may deviate. Whether this is used in the form of an experiment, we find it in the AMvB. That AMvB should include the usefulness and necessity of the experiment and also consider how the expected societal returns relate to the possible consequences for stakeholders. The AMvB gives shape to the experiment by limiting the possible deviations; at least that is the reasoning. The Council of State and also the First and Second Chambers are involved. However, it becomes more difficult because the addition of projects and areas is now per ministerial arrangement and thus out of sight of the First and Second Chambers. But also locally it is difficult for the city council to keep an eye on this, especially when it comes to adding areas or projects that fall within existing experiments. Also because it is clear from the answer that in a number of cases the Empire strongly encourages these experiments, we foresee a practice in which lectures of B and W will propose projects which, given the scope already provided for in the law, will pass the test in the AMvB and thus actually increase the number of deviations. Our group therefore remains unhappy with the choice made for the shift from AMvB to ministerial regulation. One of the aims of experimenting is to understand possible bottlenecks in existing legislation and regulation and to achieve better laws with the proceeds of these experiments, indeed when they are properly evaluated. That is also the reason for limiting experiments in time. But we don't see that in practice. Instead of using experiments to improve existing laws, more and more laws are added to the list to potentially deviate from, in this law amendment among others the Void Law and the Housing Act. As the Council of State rightly points out, there is actually no justification for this, except that these laws could have a relationship with the quality of the physical environment and should be taken into account in an integrated approach. But concrete problems that projects and municipalities are currently encountering in this Housing or Emptiness Act are not mentioned. As far as we are concerned, the aim should be to make the list of laws shorter rather than longer. After all, ideally, the experiments provide insight into where the bottlenecks lie in realising societal challenges. If these bottlenecks are addressed within the legislation, then there is no need to deviate. Finally, my group would like to dwell on the project implementation decision and the local project with national significance. A number of questions have already been asked about the project implementation decision because of the large number of modifications proposed, such as multiple-stage cutting and decision-making, the shift of the board to the college and also the relationship with the Nature Protection Act. I do not want to dwell primarily on the substantive objections, but rather on a more factual question. Since the start of the Crisis and Recovery Act ten years ago, 265 special provisions have been identified. By far the largest part, 203, is sustainable innovative experiments. Only in 21 cases, i.e. little more than 8%, are project implementing decisions. The last time was four years ago, in 2015. What, in the government's view, is the reason why, as the progress report states, this part has actually come to a standstill? This is even more true in the case of the only three times-used provision of the local project with national significance, which was no longer used after 2010. In the written reply, the government states that the municipalities see plenty of other possibilities, but that, despite the limited application, they still want to provide the space to use this instrument. I would also like a more detailed explanation on this point. As always, we look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today is the last time I speak in this room. And to be honest, I find it sad that I have to deal with a law to say goodbye to which I shall conclude later that it does no service to democracy. Today we're talking about the Crisis and Recovery Act. This law, created in 2009, aims to complement this minister with a number of possibilities by which she claims to accelerate housing production. It is reported that this Crisis and Recovery Act should be incorporated into the Environment Act, and thus would not be a permanent law. But the Minister assumes that the Environment Act will also be passed by this Chamber, and of course it is not yet that far. Can she tell us what happens if this Chamber doesn't agree to the Environment Act? Then I'll go to the content of the law. At first sight, of course, it sounds very nice to make the construction production smooth. Thousands of people are waiting for a social rental home; on average nine years in the Netherlands, not to mention what happens in the big cities. Young people and students cannot come to an affordable home and are forced to live at home. People who would like to flow into the housing market do not get a chance to do this. New construction is getting under way. Corporates should add 31,000 social housing units per year, but usually do not exceed 15,000. The buying market is also overheated. Partly because of this, the prices are sky high and it is almost impossible for starters to buy a house. Reasons enough to intervene, we can agree on that. However, the wretched thing about this story is that successive cabinets have precisely caused what I just described, for example with a landlord levy, which means corporations no longer had the resources to build homes. This levy increased from 50 million in 2013, to 800 million in 2014 and 2 billion in 2017. Money that had to be coughed up by tenants. And money that corporations haven't been able to stop in making homes sustainable and building homes. I would like to hear from this Minister whether she agrees with me that this measure has helped to bring construction to a standstill. The solution with which this minister comes, even if it comes from the party which bears the word 'democrats' in its name, is precisely the erosion of that same democracy. Because city council and provincial states are being deprived of part of their control. Powers will lie with the College of Mayors and aldermen and with Deputy States. That is what the SP thinks is an extremely bad idea and we doubt whether it will actually help. The question to the Minister is therefore: why does she choose to do this, rather than the various decisions which have made the housing market increasingly clogged? Mr. Chairman. Looking at the measures it intends to take, it seems that the Minister sees the democratic process as the cause of the standstill of the housing market. A serious shortage of housing has been warned more than once in recent years. The construction of affordable rental houses has been completed in recent years. In our opinion, this was not because the democratic process took too long, or because the city council put too much in the sand. Between 2010 and 2015, there were permits for the construction of a small 23,000 homes, but they did not come. And in 2016 it turned out that almost half of the construction workers had gone elsewhere. They don't work in construction anymore. This delay has very different causes than slow municipal or provincial procedures. Mr. Chairman. The SP expects no benefit from this law. When it is published in the Staatsblad, there are not suddenly more construction workers ready and there is not suddenly any more building land. It may be less careful, since municipal councils are only involved if they have to give a statement of no reservations, but will have less influence on the content of a construction plan. A parallel can be drawn with the House of Representatives, which is responsible for ensuring that new areas and projects are added to ministerial arrangements in existing experiments, rather than with an AMvB on which the Chamber does talk. Perhaps the Minister could explain to us previous speakers there also asked why she believes that there is a careful process in which all interests have been weighed up. Can it also ask why only two of the three criteria originally laid down need to be met? Where we agree that there should be a contribution to sustainability, a contribution to innovation and a contribution to combating the economic crisis, the law now before us is sufficient to meet two of the three, provided that the sustainability aspect is only one of them. When it is noted that it is very complicated to show that a project actually meets the criteria, I do feel uncomfortable. We all know that we need to take tough measures to combat climate change in the shortest possible time. Isn't it much better to clarify vague criteria? Why do we not demand that projects comply with the Paris Convention? Questions have also been asked about this on the other side. These questions have been answered by the Minister in saying that we must wait and see what the findings of the climate tables are. I really don't think that's enough. Not only can we expect vision and action from our rulers, we simply lack time to wait. Any delay will only add to the problem. Punching the hands in front of the eyes playing hide-and-seek and thinking you're not being seen doesn't make it any better. Mr President, you will understand that the SP expects more benefits from measures such as abolishing the landlord's tax, which will allow corporations to do what they are meant to do, namely to invest in building affordable rental houses, rather than proposals to make society a little more undemocratic. The weakening of criteria, rather than clarifying them, is not a solution either. Of course, as always, I am curious about the Minister's views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have also wondered whether the proposed amendment to the Crisis and Recovery Act should be regarded as a positive contribution to the completion of the Environment Act. In the first part of my speech, I will put a number of questions to the Minister which deal with the rule of law that is at issue here. In the second part I will deal with the planning aspects. We are talking about three constitutional, democratic principles in the political assessment of the new environmental law. The first is the accessibility of the environmental law system and the strengthening of citizens' participation opportunities. The second is the role of the city council or of the States as the highest body: frameworking and checking for B and W and GS. The third is the role of an open standard, which allows for customisation, versus closed standards, which can be less flexible and inviting, but which on the other hand create legal equality, provide security at the outset and create a level playing field. To begin with, the information position of citizens. The question is whether citizens and businesses are informed at the right time and whether they can anticipate government decisions when they become concrete and testable in the process. According to the Minister, what is the right time for the citizen: a still vague vision with charcoal sketches, the application to the Minister to be eligible for an experiment, or. The final treatment in the city council? What is a good time and how does the citizen know? Mr. Chairman. In principle, an open government will address its citizens seriously. In the present amendment to the Crisis and Recovery Act, a shift of powers from councils to colleges is considered desirable in order to strengthen speed and impact. In our view, however, this creates a democratic and participatory deficit. In this context, the Council of State noted that the Crisis and Recovery Act is evolving from a temporary crisis law to a transition law Environment Act. In doing so, the Council of State wondered whether municipalities were sufficiently capable of fulfilling the possibilities in a meaningful way. The Council of State also made a comment on the possibilities for derogations from existing legislation. In the Section's view, these are unlimited in time. Indeed, it is still uncertain whether the Environmental Act will actually enter into force in 2021. The Government's response shows that the various experiments also have different final periods up to 2025. Not only is there a diversity of experiments in content, but there are, according to the government, nearly 147 municipalities which operate under the Crisis and Recovery Act with one or more of the experimental possibilities. This means that in the period up to the entry into force of the Environmental Law, different forms of planning arise with their own legal basis, in the regular regime or in the Crisis and Recovery Act. This could lead to legal confusion and uncertainty for citizens and businesses as to exactly which assessment framework applies to them. However, even after the Environment Act enters into force, decisions will continue to be taken before 2021 under the transitional law based on those different legal bases. Can the Minister clarify where citizens and businesses can find unambiguous information about the relevant status of planning in their environment? We raise this because a reference to www.spatialplann.nl and the Staatsmaak does not seem sufficient. In a recent statement by the Council of State, the municipality of Zaandam was literally instructed to include the part of the zoning plan that was destroyed in the rural facility. It seems that this is necessary from a legal point of view. This question is all the more important since, upon entry into force of the Environmental Law, there are also different planning frameworks, the reworked zoning plan and/or zoning plan. Environmental plan, derogation permit, management regulation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The position of the city council in this tranche is thus also different from that of previous changes. I would like to draw your attention to the criticism of this system, which is reflected in the Council of State's annual report for 2018, on pages 23 to 25. In it, the Council of State talks about a building system that can always be signed up and where the rules may vary according to project, location and municipality, where the legal protection varies and where the legislator gives the impression that the text of the law is never established. We believe that the fear of the Council of State that the coexistence of different procedures within the framework of approval will affect the position of the citizen is justified. We also believe that the fundamental criticism of the Scientific Council for Government Policy in the report 'Science is not yet done' of the shortcomings in public communication in informing and enabling citizens to respond adequately to government intentions and rules plays a major role in this. What is the Minister's reflection on this? Mr. Chairman. Then the second key: the role and position of the city council. States. The answer given by the government to questions we have asked shows that the colleges are not obliged to submit the notification of experiments to the city council. In view of the importance of the broad involvement of the highest body of the municipalities in strategic and sustainability issues, my group has asked the government whether it does not see this as an omission, in view of the aim of anchoring the objective of the Environment Act to citizens and the local parliament at the outset. The government replied: "Adding new areas and projects to existing experiments under ministerial regulation is not a pre-publication obligation. Since the implementation of participation in the experiment often requires a decision of a decentralised government, citizens can object to that decision." In other words, not only the city council, but also interested citizens and businesses can only express their views and objections about notified areas and projects after the design of a draft decision by the college. Does the Minister agree with the Labour Party that this method does not fit in with the transition to early participation and the promotion of pre-stage involvement, as is the starting point of the Environment Act? Why is there such a cramped reaction chosen here? The government's motivation is that citizens and businesses can submit views on the AMvB experiment scheme. My group believes that this is too general and abstract a framework to be able to derive the consequences for residents of a potential location development and the effects on their immediate living environment. The criteria are in principle territorially independent, but the government does not consider it necessary to introduce a publication obligation for the notification of specific areas before they are included in the ministerial regime. The government also does not consider it necessary for B and W to actively inform the Board before the Minister enters the nomination into the ministerial arrangement. As regards the formal notification of areas, neither the State General nor the local authority concerned are directly involved in the new scheme. They may also not set up a procedural break for the purpose of consultation between college and board. Why does the Minister not want to include a publication obligation when registering? This would bear witness to an inviting gesture in the light of the strengthening of participation and information for residents. I believe that is what the CDA Group has just asked for. This would enable the city council at an early stage to consult with the college on framework, position of participation and so on. The fact that a number of municipal councils already do so, on their own conviction, does not give the assurance that this criterion is being applied widely. In other words, we do not have the room for a key role of municipal councils in this regulation. The Government considers that the proposed scheme gives the College of B and W more powers to adopt the project implementation decision and that the involvement of the City Council has been adequately secured. That is precisely the point, because in our view the terms 'involvement' and 'co-decision' are exchanged or rather replaced. A large and far-reaching delegation of regulatory powers is emphasised in the government's position and the position of the city council is limited. The same applies to the amendment allowing the College to identify cases where it does not have to give a statement of no reservations when another administrative body grants an authorisation for an activity. In this case, another administrative body shall take a decision affecting the environmental use area to be optimised and to be developed where the college is competent. Therefore, the College then assesses whether a statement of no reservations can be made for the use of that environmental use area. Here again, the assessment of possibilities within the existing room of use of sound, smell and traffic is left to the college and the board is out of play. In the opinion of the PvdA, this creates tension and uncertainty about the position of the city council between the date of entry into force of this bill and the situation under the Environment Act from 2021 onwards. This is all the more so since the House of Representatives recently adopted, in March, three amendments which are significant in this respect and which strengthen the position of the city council on the following points. This is the amendment on item No. 53 of Ronnes c.s. As regards an increased right of advice when granting environmental permits, the amendment in part No. Mr Van Eijs and others, which will allow the city council to identify areas and activities for which citizen participation should take place, and the amendment in part No. 56 by Van Eijs and others, which will allow the city council to identify areas and activities for which citizen participation should take place, as well as the amendment in part No. 56 by Van Eijs and others. 49 of Smeulders c.s., which enables the city council to apply independently section 3.4 of the General Law on Administrative Law and hence participation through views. We do not think it is right for the proposed amendment to the Crisis and Recovery Act to place restrictions on the position of the city council and we believe that, in view of the above-mentioned amendment to the Introduction Act, the current legislative proposal on this point is obsolete. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the third point. One point of attention concerns the legal vulnerability of the planning search for housing locations. In response to our questions and to questions from other parliamentary groups on the subject, the government states that a multitude of factors may be responsible for the stagnation in housing. These have just been mentioned by colleagues: labour shortages, raw materials and changes in housing requirements. The government indicates that the latest inventory in autumn 2018 shows that there are sufficient building plans at national level to meet housing needs. Underlying, however, there is a shortage of construction plans in some regions and the hardness of construction plans in several regions is a focus of attention. Regional programming, application of the urbanisation ladder, is therefore obvious when local authorities designate locations. In order to justify the need for housing, a reference can then be made to show that a development is appropriate within the regional housing needs estimate. In its reply, the government states that it is not obliged to always have a top-down planner in which all locations have already been weighed and allocated. This means that the municipality can choose its own location without proper prior consideration of the advantages and disadvantages. The government also states that a structural vision does not have to include a high level of detail in, for example, the number, size and size of housing for the competence of the college. However, in order to achieve the hard planning capacity that is needed, it will be important to further develop planned location developments. Emphasising the form-free nature of an environmental impact assessment, as the government does, does not really help. Vague plans are more of a sta-in-the-way. Legal certainty also increases when there has been a trade-off over several locations, for example in a planMER. Does the Minister share this view? Otherwise, we fear, the EIA assessment on the project implementation decision, which may then be carried out in stages, becomes the proverbial funnel of individual decisions, each with its own vulnerabilities. In our view, speed of implementation is not automatically promoted by making integration issues of sound or smell tangible only in the final phase, because each phase decision is also open to legal review. See, among other things, the recent judgment of the Council of State on the zoning plan Hembrugrein in Zaandam, where the municipal administration was too generous in allocating additional sound space on a new residential area of 1,000 houses to be built. Does the Minister share this analysis? An exploration of location alternatives can be addressed through an EIA assessment, the government writes in the further report. Does the Minister also refer to the regions concerned when concluding the so-called housing deals? Is she taking the lead on this, too? And what role does it actually expect of the provinces to be co-directive on the basis of the consideration of provincial interests in the designation of larger locations, from, say, between 100 and 2,000 homes, to which the project implementation decision may apply? Mr President, I will conclude. My group believes that in this search for a plan, the Minister is still too distant towards the regions, but we are naturally looking forward to answering our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr Verheijen. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u20	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is to extend the experimental possibilities of the Crisis and Recovery Act, pending the Environment Act. The permit procedure for municipalities is simplified by means of project implementing decisions. This could result in a possible acceleration of some six to seven months for housing projects. Given the acute shortage of houses, this sounds of course like music to the ears. No one can ignore the housing needs of start-ups and the shortage of senior and life-proof housing in the current housing market. The question, however, is whether the introduction of this law will actually create a realistic plan to meet these housing needs in a timely and adequate manner. It is not just about the number of houses, but also about the right type of housing, which must be located in the right living environment. Mr. Chairman. I read in the note following the report on 18 April last that, while the Minister calls on the provinces to take an active role in housing, and even to ensure that housing planning is well in line with housing needs, it is necessary to emigrate to the outskirts of the city if there are not enough urban opportunities. My group is asking the Minister: are there enough internal opportunities at all to realise the diversity of housing needs in the big cities? After all, there is no point in building senior homes in a living environment where the future elderly person is so far away from all kinds of necessary facilities, such as a pharmacy, a general practitioner's office, shops for daily shopping and access to public transport. These provisions are crucial conditions in order to allow older people to live in their homes for a longer period of time. That is, after all, the starting point of this government? Can the Minister assure my group that this bill actually contributes to the realisation of customised housing experiments? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS attaches importance to the early involvement of citizens in planning processes for housing, as participation provides more support and better decision-making. At first sight, this legislative proposal seems to undermine, on the contrary, the adequate support of local representatives and citizens. In fact, adding new areas and projects to existing experiments by ministerial regulation is not an obligation to pre-publish. Experiments can contribute to solving social problems which require different regulations from the law, but these different rules should preferably be limited in time and scope, given the principles of equality and legal certainty and the legal protection of citizens. In the note following the report, on page 2, the Minister states that it is the responsibility of the College of B and W to involve citizens and businesses in an experiment at the right time. What exactly does the Minister mean by "the right time"? The Minister is confident that the various colleges will handle this right moment correctly and even advises to involve the city council, citizens and businesses at an early stage in the preparation of a municipal experiment or notification of a project or area. I quote: 'However, under both the Environment Act and the Crisis and Recovery Act, it is recommended to inform the city council early'. In view of the emphasis placed by the Minister himself on the involvement and timely information of the city council in experiments, my group wonders why it does not include this as a legal obligation in this legislative proposal. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. It is precisely the lack of a pre-publication obligation that runs counter to the objective of the Environment Act under consideration, which aims to achieve greater participation and early involvement of citizens. Mr. Chairman. In the underlying documents of this bill, it is often stated that the Crisis and Recovery Act, the Chw, is either a precursor or a precursor to the Environment Act. But the Minister also states that the Chw is not only an intermediate solution but is mainly intended to solve unnecessary bottlenecks. Can the Minister, Mr 50PLUS, explain clearly what unnecessary bottlenecks she is referring to? My group is not yet entirely convinced whether the removal of unnecessary or unnecessary bottlenecks provides sufficient justification to shift the power to take project implementing decisions from the city council to the college of B and W, despite the Van Eijs amendment adopted in the Second Chamber, which at least strengthens the position of the city council in certain cases. We look forward to answering the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-4.u22	Further consideration of the Crisis and Recovery Act will take place tomorrow, Tuesday.
