ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister. We are now going to look at the shortage of labour. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. Everyone has four minutes' speaking time. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Tielen from the VVD group. I call Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whether you as an SME run a business in ICT, a practice in oral care, a café or a swimming school: you always drive success on good people, on doers, employees who not only work to earn a salary, but also because they do something that they can do well, because they are in contact with other people and because working is just a nice spending of the day. But employees are getting harder to find. SMEs as a driving force for the Dutch economy are starting to stall because there are large staff shortages. Not only in SMEs, but also in the care, education and defence sectors, where there are currently more than 8,000 vacancies. The demand for good people is greater than the supply. Mr. Chairman. A year and a half ago, this Chamber considered the shortage of labour so urgent that we had this minister come to the Chamber to get to work. Now, a year and a half later, it is still important to be in the Chamber about this. The Minister has written an approach and made a progress report, but unfortunately the number of vacant vacancies has risen to record levels this summer. There are still over a million people who are unnecessarily sidelined or want to work more. That's bad for those people and bad for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The VVD welcomes so many jobs and so many workers, but we're worried about that cut. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is still far too cautious in his approach. The VVD wants more urgency and more decisiveness, that the Minister knows what obstacles stand in the way of a proper connection between supply and demand and that he simply removes those obstacles. The VVD wants SMEs and other employers to experience that the Minister's approach actually works for them. That is why I want to know three things in this debate. Why is it so difficult for so many part-time workers to work more? More than 350,000 people now working part-time would like to work more hours or more days. It has to be said that employers welcome this. It is therefore hard to believe in this tense labour market that it does not seem to succeed. Can the Minister clarify what obstacles stand in the way of part-time work and more hours? Is the Minister prepared to take concrete measures to remove them? We would like people who want to work more hours to be able to do so and then, of course, make a financial contribution. Anyone who works more deserves better. What can the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u3	Quite rightly, the VVD is asking this question. I am curious what the VVD itself sees as the cause of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u4	One of the reasons is that people are not making enough progress when they start working more. Then it turns out, when you sit around the table with each other at home to figure out what it gives you to work more, that you suddenly don't get all kinds of things anymore and that there is less left at the bottom than you expected with a day or half a day more working.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u5	A clear answer. It is certainly a point, but, for example, childcare is very expensive, especially for many people with lower incomes. If you are going to work extra, you will indeed have very little left, for example because of childcare or because it is very difficult to get care leave. Is the VVD also willing to make that more attractive, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u6	Childcare is not expensive at all if you are in the lowest income groups or have a middle income. There is a huge contribution from the Treasury to child care payments, precisely to ensure that people can actually use that kindergarten. So I don't quite recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u7	Big news: the VVD states here that childcare is not expensive in the Netherlands. I think there are a lot of households who think differently and have a different experience. But my question is about the surcharges. You are right to say that in some cases people do not, or hardly, improve on it or even decline on it if they are going to work or want to work more. Does the VVD also consider that these surcharges should be reduced much less quickly and that this limit should be shifted, so that work always pays?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u8	I wholeheartedly endorse Mr. Van Kent's last statement. What exactly should that look like in a table of tax rates, surcharges and so on, I am not ready now, I say quite honestly. I do think that we should look very closely and critically at this. For ordinary people in the country, this just doesn't make sense, so we just have to solve that. I hear the SP likes to watch with me, so I'd like to debate a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think we are having this debate here. I'll give you a hand. If you go from welfare level or minimum wage to modal, you lose a few thousand euros of surcharges in steps. It's technically called a sawing tooth. Instead, if we choose a sliding scale, you don't suddenly lose a large part of your supplement at hard borders. If people start working more, that means they're gonna get more out of it. Is the VVD prepared to ask this minister to look into this and come up with a proposal to solve the problem together with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u10	If it turns out that those are the biggest obstacles... I think there are more causes. I also believe that inter-departmental research is on its way to map these kinds of things. I fully agree with you: if these are the obstacles, if we can solve them relatively easily, then we have to do so. Then I am certainly prepared to ask the Minister to take steps in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u11	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u12	Second. If you have a company with ten employees, you will suffer a lot if you have two long-term vacancies, much more than if you have a company with, for example, 300 people. Everyone understands that. However, I get signals from SMEs that they do not receive much support in their demand for potential labour. Shouldn't they just expect the UWV and the municipalities to put them in touch with job seekers in the card boxes? Why isn't this happening? What's in the way? I read in the Minister's update that there are millions of euros ready to implement regional action plans. How's that going? How many labour market regions have taken action? Do they specifically create a contact point for SMEs in their plans? I would like to know, because we want employers to receive much more targeted support in finding job seekers for their vacancies. Third. Why, despite the larger numbers of vacancies, is R&D being invested less in training and development in the jargon of this ministry? That's weird. Can the Minister indicate the results of the so-called R&D funds? Are they accessible enough for entrepreneurs? We would like to see the link between education and training on the one hand and the labour market on the other, strengthened at all levels. Education, retraining, training while working must become the most normal thing in the world. In various debates, we will continue to come back to that. Mr President, don't get me wrong. The VVD does not believe in a workable labour market. Open vacancies will always be there, but we would like to see more urgency and priority from this minister for the staff shortages that are only rising and which are a threat to the development of our prosperity. We would like this Minister to show that he will continue to increase the number of jobs in the coming year, and the number of people who do not work or work too little will fall. Get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u13	I have waited until the whole speech of my colleague has been, but I am missing one part, namely that there are also people who would very much like to continue working if they have reached their AOW-right age. I missed that. What is the VVD's position on this? Can we find each other to ensure that these people also have a chance to continue working, possibly part-time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u14	That's the downside of four minutes. Then you have to choose, but Mrs. Van Brenk is of course absolutely right. If people want to work and are able to do so, what stands in the way of ensuring that there is a match, to put it in beautiful Dutch, between employers and job seekers above the AOW age? I'd be happy to find out with you. If you have any ideas as to how that can and can be resolved, I would be happy to join you in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u15	Then I have another point. I heard a comment about permanent learning and investing in people. That sounds very good to me. That is also a point that we are constantly calling for attention to be given to. Does that mean that the investment agenda of this cabinet should also focus on this issue as far as the VVD is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u16	You mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u17	"And Mrs. Van Brenk means "then."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u18	Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Bosma, Mr. Chairman. What exactly does Mrs Van Brenk mean? Does it refer to investment in further training and retraining, for example in the R&D funds, to which both employers and the Treasury contribute? Is that what she means, do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mrs Van Brenk believes that the learning account that has been introduced must also be properly invested by the public authorities, so that people have the space to further develop and grow within but also outside their sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yeah, that also sounds very reasonable and logical, so I'd like to say yes. At the same time, I hope that you will not fail to point out to me that I do not yet have all the figures in mind. Perhaps we are not entirely in agreement, but you are right: let us as a society and therefore also from the government make sure that people "sustainable" can continue to work sustainably on the work that they can and like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an illusion to think that this one-point minister can solve the labour market gap, but the solution will have to come from a good interplay between employers, the trade union movement and the cabinet. In this context, I would like to refer to three issues, including the action plan for dealing with the shortage previously drawn up at the request of D66 and VVD. The first is labour market discrimination. It is already insufferable, but as an employer you are of course crazy if you do not invite people because of their age, belief, last name or place of birth on conversation or do not give an internship. It's very uncomfortable matter. In the debate next week with the Secretary of State on this subject, I will again table a number of motions, also aimed at temporary employment agencies, but I would like a response from the Minister to a very interesting initiative from the Start Foundation, namely Open Hiring: anyone who comes by will get a job and then we will see if you can get trained and whether you are doing well. I think that's an inspiring experiment. Does the Minister have any contact with you about that? And does he find that very interesting with me? The second is labour migration, but I see Mrs. Van Brenk, so I'll hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u23	We are going to make a plea for Open Hiring as well, but the question is whether it is the Minister's office or whether we should look at the social partners, in the sense that we need to get them to work in order to get this done by all companies. Does D66 see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u24	I fully agree with Mrs Van Brenn. I asked the Minister if he was enthusiastic like me, but these experiments are being started by the Start Foundation with companies that would like to do so. That's just as interesting to me. The real solution is where people are recruited. For example, I would like to give the Labour Inspectorate a greater role and ask for enforcement if there is discrimination. But I fully agree with you: the strength of these experiments is precisely that they are not government experiments but experiments in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u25	There is one more point. You have already mentioned discrimination and so on. But it is also a matter of mentality. I had a look today: if I want to go behind the register at Jumbo, I have to send in a CV, otherwise they won't take my application at all. Then you don't get anywhere with open hair. What steps does D66 see in order to do exactly that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u26	Now I have to pay attention, because I am now almost falling into the trap that Mrs Van Brenk herself warned me about, namely not from The Hague, but to join the experiments. We fully agree on the purpose of these experiments, namely to remove this type of threshold. What I hope is that a company is not going to do it later because I say it even though it's always fun when people listen to me, but because they themselves are convinced by experiments at other companies that this gives them the chance to bring in very good people that they hadn't seen according to regular recruitment. That's why that could be such a win-win.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u27	But you're always willing to help Mrs. Van Brenn to become a cashier at the Jumbo. That's actually your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mrs. Van Brenk doesn't need my help, but if so, always, for whatever she wants. And perhaps with a motion, I say with a wink. My second point concerns labour migration. This is simply very important in many sectors. There is still a great deal to be done in terms of living conditions, so that there is good employership. There are still too many abuses. Now I have heard recent noises that perhaps very large groups will not be coming, because in Poland the minimum wage may be doubled. And I sometimes hear employers say: there are obstacles. Does the minister get a concrete list of them? Because only in a general sense do I find it difficult to talk about that. My final point is about unexploited human resources. In practice, in many sectors where women often work mainly in small part-time jobs, there is a major shortage: care, education. It is just in these sectors where, when someone asks his boss to be allowed to work longer, most often no is sold. I find that really incomprehensible. I find this even more incomprehensible in the knowledge that in the Netherlands half of women are still not economically independent. So this is bad for everyone. I have the impression that a lot of things come together here. If I look at the cabinet in which Mr Smeulders was right, as far as I am concerned, it is also about cheaper childcare. The cabinet has invested extra in this. It is also a question of bottlenecks in the surcharges. I hope that after Princess Day work will pay more. But it also has something to do with collective agreements and agreements in the workplace. Does the Minister really want to talk to them more about this? Because Minister De Jonge and Minister Slob's action plans are very good that they are going to promote this, but I see very little happening in the workplace. Why doesn't an employer, when he's so cut, talk to everyone to seduce people? That can indeed be a kind of financial bonus, it may be that there is a problem in the schedules, it may be that we should make the work less difficult. But just when the cut is so big and there are so many people there who want to work more, I would have expected much more urgency there. So I would like to see very concrete action by the cabinet in these two sectors. I would like to ask the Minister to have a real conversation with employers about what they are doing to seduce people. That's what I want to know. Can some kind of bonus or storage if you extend your hours legally? Is that an interesting instrument? Can't you say: go every year with people in a small part-time job in the interview and see how you can seduce them to work a day more? If the problem is with childcare costs, I'd like to keep talking about it. If it is in the roster, because one has gratings in which it does not fit, then perhaps something has to be done about it. Because right here there is so much potential, yet so many women are not economically independent, that we are missing a huge opportunity here. I really think we need to get into this. How often and on what grounds is an application for enlargement rejected? You're just entitled to that, unless there's serious business interests involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you. Mr Smeulders from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about labour shortages. That's a big problem for a lot of people. When I discussed this debate yesterday with our intern Fee Kirsch she came up with a very nice metaphor, which I would like to share with you, also because it makes what this is really about very tangible. She came with the metaphor of the chair dance. What exactly is going on in the labour market? There are far too few people who participate in the chairs dance and the chairs there are no longer very attractive to many people. What is our responsibility as a government? I think it is our responsibility to ensure that more people are involved, to make it easier and more interesting in the labour market. But we also need to seduce employers to ensure that the seats that may not be entirely perfect now do match those that are available. I thought it was a very nice metaphor. I will name a number of things that the government can do in our view, together with companies and employers, to make the labour market more attractive to more people. The first point is actually very simple, namely to make working conditions more attractive. CNV, the trade union, has sent us a letter about this in the run-up to this consultation, in which they discuss, among other things, the stagnant wage developments. The Prime Minister has made very tough statements about this. I am very curious to hear from the Minister for Social Affairs what the government's view is on this at the moment. Will the cabinet, within its possibilities, take measures towards companies to ensure that wages rise more? The second point is that the government can very well make it easier and more attractive to work. I was just talking about childcare. Childcare is still very expensive, especially for middle-income workers. Four out of ten people using childcare indicate that they find it so expensive that it is a reason not to work anymore. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to that, but I am at least as curious as to what is going on with the implementation of our motion on care leave. Last year I submitted it to the budget debate together with Mr Van Weyenberg of D66. It said that the Cabinet would come up with a plan of action to make care leave more attractive for the summer, or mid-2019. In my view,'medio' is almost over, so our hearts are full of expectation beating towards December and at least towards the next budget debate. I would very much like to know from the cabinet what is going on with its implementation. The government can also do more to prevent low literacy, so that more people can participate. I'd like a response from the cabinet to that. The integration policy we have had in recent years is not a model of: participate in society and be productive on the labour market. Many people were not allowed to learn Dutch from the beginning. From the moment they had to, they said: figure it out and pay it yourself. Could Minister Koolmees also give an update on the state of the new integration policy? And how does he see that in relation to the shortage in the labour market? I would also like to draw attention to a group with relatively little attention, even here in the Chamber: those who are not entitled to benefits. They're also called nuggets. I think that's a terrible term. That's what I thought when I was alderman and I used to talk about this target group from time to time. They're people who often don't work right now. Part of it is in the picture with the government.It depends on which definition you use.But a very large part of it is not, while this is a group that you can possibly get moving with some additional measures. Does the Cabinet have any attention for this group? Mr. Chairman. My final question concerns cross-border employment. Especially in the border areas in the Netherlands there is a lot of exchange with Belgium and Germany. Can the cabinet make that even more attractive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Van Kent of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many people will remember the trial of the municipality of The Hague and Rotterdam. Buses with benefit recipients were brought to the Westland to work there in the greenhouses. The locations were unreachable for public transport, so they actually needed their own car, and the circumstances were tough. Think of the humidity and the temperature. They worked in a team in which almost no one spoke Dutch, and for the minimum wage, which immediately stopped municipal regulations and reduced a number of fees. They had uncertain flex contracts and, in many cases, did not improve on them financially but on them. And what do you think was the outcome of this trial? Right, of course, that doesn't work for a second. The SP Group believes that companies that are unable to find employees should first look at themselves. Does the Minister agree with her? If these companies were to increase wages, give good contracts and improve working conditions, in other words, if, for example, these companies were to pay €20 per hour, I would mention just one amount of money, then the situation would suddenly be very different. Then you'll see that employees can be found. As far as we are concerned, therefore, these companies should not go to the government, but first look at themselves. And yes, the government must also look at itself. It first reduced 77 000 jobs in care and then, a few years later, started an image campaign to make work in care seem attractive. Furthermore, I mention the struggle of teachers for a decent income here in the Zuiderpark, the struggle of police officers for a bit of a decent collective agreement and the struggle of prison guards and military. I can go on like this for a while. Neglecting and breaking down the public sector makes the government a very poor employer or client. Does the Minister recognise that the government itself has a major responsibility for the shortage of public sector workers? Work must be rewarding. We've been talking about that for a while with the VVD. Work must pay wages for people who want to work or want to work more. Even the Prime Minister calls on companies to give employees a fair share of the record profits. Their present, lowering the tax on profits, he therefore postpones for a while, at least, if we can believe the messages. But who believes this Rutte cabinet anymore? Everyone would feel in the wallet that the Netherlands is out of the crisis. Today, thanks to the media, we know that this has proved to be a lie, because it says that people have improved on average by 0.3% in 2018. That is why I ask the Cabinet to come up with a real measure to keep its promise. Let the cabinet increase the minimum wage and thus also the AOW benefit by 10%. Is the Minister prepared to take a real measure in the cabinet, so that this cabinet does not die in the false promises, but also fulfills what it promises? The number of over 1 million, to be precise 1.1 million people, who want to work or work more, has already passed a few times. Often the job does not fit in with the training of people. The SP therefore proposes to remove the thresholds for real education as far as possible for people in the WW. I know that this Minister has already taken a number of steps, but it remains unclear for people. It remains uncertain and dependent on an employee of the UWV whether or not permission can be given. Therefore, the proposal to always allow training unless, and in order to ensure that the employee of the UWV does not make it available to the labour market as a condition if someone wants to take up training. In other words, someone can always train for a deficit profession, even if it makes him unavailable for a while to the labour market. We shall also table a motion on this. Very briefly, Mr. Chairman, if I may. With the VVD it was in the interrupting debate about those surcharges for a while. I believe that we have already put the questions to this Minister together with the VVD. So that's what I want to leave it at. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u33	Thank you. Then Mrs Palland from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. More than a quarter of entrepreneurs indicate that the company's development is hampered by a shortage of labour. As a result, the economic situation is expected to deteriorate over the next two years. First of all, the high demand for labour was a sign of a booming economy, and now, if we are not careful, this persistent demand seems to us to be going down economically. Meanwhile, the number of open vacancies in the second quarter of this year has again reached a new record: 284,000, most of which are in healthcare, commerce and business services. Even companies specialising in finding staff, the temporary employment agencies, suffer from staff shortages. At the same time, the CBS also notes that in one quarter there have never been so many vacancies as in the second quarter of this year. That's good news. Good things seem to be happening in our country, too. This is also reflected in the Minister's letter, in which we read, among other things, that the unused labour potential is falling, that more people join the labour market and that an increasing number of people with disabilities also find a job. Nevertheless, the CDA is concerned about labour shortages, gaps in specific sectors and a brake on economic development in mainstream business. This is bad for the Netherlands. From the Minister we have received a five-page state of play on all ongoing routes to tackle this shortage. It's a nice overview. This cabinet is obviously not sitting still. But do we do the good things? What effect is this gonna have? It would help us if we could see the impact of all these measures, individually and in conjunction with each other. It is likely that this will not be possible yet, but it will be possible in the medium or longer term. Is the Minister prepared to take this with him in another state of affairs? We are particularly interested in figures on the extent of the silent reserves in the WW, for example in sectors such as care, education and the police. The CDA considers it very important that these WW'ers get back to work, either in their own sector or outside. According to the Minister, do we have enough pictures of these silent reserves to get them out of the UWV's card boxes with the right incentives and guidance, or do we need extra effort to do so? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Chinese artificial intelligence expert Kai Fu Lee argues: the real economic progress is not achieved by a few elite scientists, but by a whole army of well-educated professionals. That seems very true to me. Having well-trained professionals requires proper integration of education into the labour market, but also lifelong development. Because the world is changing, and new developments require new or different skills of workers. People need to be permanently equipped for that, labor fit. In a dynamic, changing labour market such as the Dutch, where people regularly change jobs, good labour market services are also very important. This is also the conclusion of the CNV in the letter we received last week. A tried and tested way of helping or keeping people in work is to retrain them from a professional sector where work disappears to a sector where demand for labour increases. In connection with this, I have a question about the R&D funds, of which there are no less than 125 in the Netherlands. These funds and their funds are sectoral, while people could sometimes be better trained from one sector to another. We know the example of the Northern Education Alliance, solving the bottleneck. This involves pre-financing from the public authorities to enable such a switch to take place. But would the Minister like to see how we can dedistribute these R&D funds where necessary and use them more effectively? From some labour market regions we receive signals that they are working on a human capital agenda. A regional deal on this issue is also being developed in several regions. But we also receive signals about the lack of clarity about the VAT obligation for retraining and guidance projects, including the Perspective for Work project, which the Minister refers to in his letter. Labour market regions receive funding for this, but then there may be a debate about VAT payments, which has suddenly reduced the budget a lot. How could we remove that ambiguity? Mr. Chairman. Labour market bottlenecks also pose the risk that young people without initial qualifications will already be taken out of school by companies for a job, the so-called green picking. We are getting signals that this is on the agenda of several MBOs and that schools are now even banning companies. That does not seem to us to be a good development. These young people must also be able to fall back on a starting qualification in the event of an economic downturn. My question to the Minister is: how can we help them and the schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u35	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u36	Oh, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u37	I see you still have a lot of text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u38	I'd like to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u39	Short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u40	Last year, the ESC did a reconnaissance on combination jobs. In his response, the Minister also pointed out this. Combining jobs offers the opportunity to gain experience in another sector as well. Two-thirds of the people are very satisfied with having a combination job, but are struggling with administrative bumps. Our question is: how do we make it easier to combine these jobs, so as to prevent labour market shortages?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u41	Very good. Thank you. Then Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a huge shortage of staff. You would think that there would be all the opportunities for people looking for work, people with disabilities, people who do not have benefits but want to work, people who want to work more and also people who would like to work after their AOW age. But reality is dramatically different. More than a million people are on the sidelines. Just think of the experienced sellers of Vroom and Dreesman who are no longer in business. There is a suffocating mismatch between supply and demand in the labour market. Our first question is therefore whether employers have a long-term vision. Where is the sound staff planning for the medium term rather than always thinking in the short term? Where is the government's tough offensive to remedy this mismatch? Colleagues also said that companies should also be in charge of their own business. Horeca and retail complain about a shortage and labour turnover, but do they often offer unbearable working conditions? Do employers keep low-income workers too often in a "low-income grip"? Mr. Chairman. There are certainly opportunities. Is the Minister prepared to address the Malie Tower critically? It sometimes seems as if "learning a course at MBO level" has become a dirty term or that people without a starting qualification have been written off in advance. Where's common sense? Why do we give people so little chance of growing within a function or keeping up with a function? Can there be work for people who aren't students? Ibos and MBOs must also be able to get a good place in our labour market. Does the Minister see this and what is he going to do about it? Mr. Chairman. The key to the mismatch between supply and demand is, in our view, two: as a top economy, we are now a mid-term investor in the EU, and the public authorities themselves must invest significantly more in sustainable employability and in lifelong learning and development, with a view to vulnerable groups. Think about that personal learning account, as far as we're concerned. You're gonna fuck with that one. Make this part of the investment agenda of this cabinet. Then you increase mobility within a sector, but also between sectors. And you're giving job seekers a better chance of expanding and getting to work. Our question is: is this minister going to make an effort in the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. The shortage of labour can also be reduced in another way. The labour market has gone too far in demanding impressive CVs with formal qualifications, years of work experience and only on paper looking for the sheep with the five legs. That leaves real golden opportunities. The D66 colleague just said the same thing. 50PLUS asks you to remove thresholds. Let people prove what they are worth in practice, because then we will also give people who are remote from the labour market, including many older people, a chance. We call on the Minister, together with the social partners, to promote open competition wherever possible. Why doesn't every website besides job vacancies also offer the possibility of a simple fill-in exercise for name and phone number? So you give young and old a chance with open eyes and without prejudice. Will the Minister take an active part in this? As far as we are concerned, the need is high, both for job seekers and for employers. Mr. Chairman. I told you before: you still read too often that if there is not a very extensive CV in a job application, that application will not be dealt with. That's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Graaf of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister would like to suspend for ten minutes. He's gonna need four more minutes, at least if I can get it full to listen to the story of the PVV. I'll start with that right away. In recent years economic growth has made the labour market cramped. I have already heard some worrying noises, even in the debate: to what extent has economic growth fallen into people's pockets? Mrs Van Brenk spoke of it, I believe, in an interrupting debate. We can all be at the same level as before the 2008 crisis and perhaps even higher in terms of earnings in the Netherlands, but if that money has only disappeared in the pockets of very large companies and, above all, the government, something goes wrong. During the previous cabinet period I strongly opposed, on behalf of the PVV, the flexibilisation of Asscher and of course of Rutte and their cabinet. I think there's some of the problem there too. But of course we are not going to solve that in a four-minute debate today. Mr. Chairman. I forgot to tell you that according to CBS, there are a million people missing labour resources. Apart from the unemployed, these include other groups, such as people who have either recently looked for work or are already directly available for work. Part-time workers who want to work more hours are also immediately available. These people are included in the untapped workforce, but fall outside the definition of unemployment. At the end of June 2019, 426.000 persons up to the AOW age were therefore entitled to a welfare allowance under that AOW age. 426,000. When we look at these numbers, we find it incomprehensible as PVV that there are parties and sectors that say that the borders should be even more open to bring people from outside. The annoyance is already great. You can't order a beer or healthy smoothie on a terrace in Amsterdam or in the beach horeca on Scheveningen today; I prefer to call it zûhpfrûht without being addressed by a Mexican art academy student in Spanish, or by someone from New York in English, or by someone with whom the Moscow accent is written I hear that very well sounded through English. It will not be up to me, because I do teach those people Dutch and if necessary, The Hagues and Schevenings. If I'm sitting there, they'll learn from me. But then I look at The Hague Market. There I see a lot of people standing behind the stalls who really, in Holland's words, work the smallpox. At the Dutch fish farmer I see Moroccan men who work really hard, but who are also well integrated. There's a big part of the problem there. The people who stand in front of the stalls on The Hague Market are generally not integrated. They just order in Arabic, Berber or Turkish. When I ask those people how they get their money, I do, because I am so bold, all I hear is assistance, assistance. That's all Dutch comes out. That's how simple reality is. So we are also talking about unexploited human resources. When I hear that half of a particular target group is not economically independent, I think: that makes sense if you do not speak Dutch and do not adapt to Western standards and values. Well, at some point, you won't be able to get back to work. Strandents and Amsterdam terraces don't want those people either. For the customer it is annoying enough that it is addressed in English, broken Russian or Mexican-Spanish. Let's add Berbers, Moroccan or Turkish. I predict there won't be another customer on the terrace. The most important point is, therefore, to make borders closer rather than more open borders. Mr Van Kent spoke today about the buses going to the Westland. I had the same example in mind myself. Isn't it time to tell people, Dutch people, but also non-Western immigrants, half of the welfare recipients are non-Western immigrants who can work but refuse to say: isn't it time we cut or cancel your benefit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you. Mr De Graaf is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u46	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm about to start with a general speaker and then I have a few cubes. I know your room attaches to structure, so I'm gonna tell you which cubes are there. The broad offensive, the regional action plans and the open ring are block 1. Block 2 is part-time and everything about the workforce, so to speak. Block 3 is education and block 4 is other. It's always a surprise for you what's in there and for me too. No, that's not true. I just read it all neatly. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my general introduction. A number of Members of Parliament have already said that we have been a year further since we discussed the previous letter on how to tackle labour shortages. Before the summer, the cabinet has sent a further step forward. In this approach, we have described what we are doing to improve the match on the labour market to tackle the shortage and to help more people to work. There are two things I have just mentioned. There is first and foremost a shared responsibility in dealing with tightness. This is not only the responsibility of the government, but also of employers, employees, representatives of the municipalities, UWV, schools and the Empire together. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, we are not just going to solve the problem at once. I think it's an illusion to think. There is no miracle means that suddenly we can link everyone who is on the side side for all kinds of different reasons to vacancies in which we ask for all kinds of different competences and knowledge. That is why I attach great importance to the structural improvement of the functioning of the labour market, which can reduce the mismatch in the labour market. For example, I am now going to mention a whole series of measures to make work more rewarding. The coalition agreement provides for a reduction of charges of up to €5.2 billion for people in 2021, mainly aimed at employment. We have adopted the Labour Market Act in balance, which is precisely aimed at a new balance between fixed work and flex work on the labour market. I talked to your room about that in detail last year. We have also made plans to make it easier to combine work and care, especially because women often work part-time in the Netherlands. Women's participation rates are high, but if you look at hours, the participation rate is still very low. We want to improve that position. Think for example of the Cradle, the Act introducing extra birth leave. But in the coalition agreement, for example, there is also an increase in the childcare allowance of 250 million. This is precisely intended to make it easier to combine work and care. Thirdly, the Secretary of State and I have focused on improving matching between employers, job seekers, UWV and the municipalities. This afternoon you will also have a general discussion with the Secretary of State. We have allocated 70 million for the regional labour markets for 2019 and 2020 to link local employers, the SMEs, to UWV and to the municipal files of people who are still looking for work. Again, this afternoon you will continue to discuss this with the Secretary of State. We have also taken a step towards promoting lifelong development by giving people more direction on their own careers. As you know, we are developing the STEP budget, the public, individual learning account. I see Mr Smeulders looking; it is true that my ministry is very good at abbreviations. We are also working on the lifelong development of the action plan. This is not just what the government is doing with the Economic and Social Council, with employers and with employees. The focus here is precisely on the cross-sector commitment of the R&D funds. How do you move from a sector where employment is shrinking to a sector where employment is growing? Maybe you should retrain for that. Maybe you should be mentored. One final step in the State Secretary's area is to involve groups of people with a distance from the labour market better. That is the broad offensive of Tamara van Ark, the Secretary of State, as you know. If you look through that a little bit, the question is where we stand now. The labour market is actually doing very well. We're making real progress. You can also see that more and more people are working. For example, employment has increased by 10,000 people per month over the last three months. You can see employment rising year by year. Unemployment is at a historically low level. There are more people at work than ever. These are all positive developments. Let us then take a look at the untapped workforce, because many Members of Parliament have asked for it. I'm just gonna say it out of my head. In 2017, 1.4 million people were counted among the unexploited workforce. In the meantime, this has decreased to 1 million people, in the latest figures of the CBS. That does not mean that we are here or that I am satisfied, but there is a development in the right direction. People who were first on the side now get and find a place on the labour market. You do not see that in the purchasing power figures and in the pictures we present every time on Prince's Day, but of course it is real work, a real income improvement for people who were certainly on the sidelines during the time of the crisis. So we're not done. Even if the CPB's expectation that economic growth is going to slow down, it is important to continue with this approach and see what can be done even better, where we can still solve bottlenecks and where my responsibility lies to make the labour market work more smoothly. The complicated thing is that a lot of questions have been asked about purchasing power, investment and all kinds of other things. Actually, that's only for next week's Princess Day. I cannot anticipate that; you understand that. So I'm gonna move around a little bit. Excuse me, I say. That was my introduction, Mr. Chairman. Now I'm getting to the cubes. I will start with Mrs Tielen's question about the regional action plans and how SMEs are served. More generally, the cabinet has a great deal of interest in the position of SME employers. Think, for example, of the solution to pay for sickness, which is the reason for many SME employers to be anxious when hiring people. Regional labour market plans are specifically concerned with matching unused labour resources, the people in the card boxes, with the SME employers in the region. We have 35 labour market regions. They have submitted an action plan, within the framework of Perspective at Work. This is the responsibility of the Secretary of State. As a cabinet, we have allocated two times 35 million to better match the demand side, i.e. the employers who need people, and the people who are looking for work. The first nine plans have now been approved. The other plans will be clarified in the very short term. Perspective at Work should help all employers. Some of those plans include specific actions for SME entrepreneurs. Mrs Tielen is right in saying that it is precisely there that the challenges and problems lie in achieving a match. Part of the Perspective on Work Plans, of these two times 35 million, is therefore precisely to involve the SME entrepreneur. In addition, the Secretary of State for EZK, Ms Keijzer, sent the SME Action Plan to your Chamber at the end of 2018. One of the central themes in this is: how do you find sufficient staff? Indeed, SMEs indicate that there is currently the greatest challenge in the labour market. By investing in employers' services, in matching work, in the labour market regions and in the broad offensive, we are particularly concerned with people who are in the Participation Act, for example, and we are trying to stimulate the regional labour market and improve the matching on the labour market. That at this point. I am going to do well today, Mrs Palland, and I asked whether it is true that there is a discussion on VAT at the Perspective on Working Resources. The employers, municipalities, UWV, the educational field and other parties in the labour market region have drawn up action plans. Nine of them have been awarded. The rest will soon come to an effectuation. Each labour market region, i.e. 35 in total, is supported by SWZ with impulse funding of €1 million in 2019 and €1 million in 2020. These funds are for all costs incurred, including VAT. It is standard that there is a separation between revenue and expenditure, including in the budgetary rules. Apparently, this was not entirely clear at the time the plans were drawn up, but this is common practice when it comes to financing the government to the local authorities, especially when it comes to cooperation between those different actors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u48	It is known that the budget is inclusive. All costs must be covered, including any VAT costs. But there is sometimes discussion about whether or not VAT liability. This uncertainty means that some regions feel attacked by having to cut back afterwards. It is logical that it should be on them, but we would like to clarify what is and is not subject to VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u49	I remember from a previous life as a financial spokesman that there is a VAT compensation fund. I can talk about that for hours. In particular, it concerns the part that is to be outsourced, not the part that is to be contracted out and carried out by the municipality or regional labour market actors. About the part that is outsourced to the external actors, you are subject to VAT. So if you hire externals to guide the ICT, VAT will have to be paid. That is in line with the current system. The municipalities know this very well, because they know how the VAT compensation fund works. If they do something themselves, they can ask my colleague Hoekstra for it back. But it's about outsourcing. This is subject to VAT. Mr Van Weyenberg drew attention to labour market discrimination. That is a valid point. You have frequent contact with the Secretary of State and debates on the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan, which we have launched. A part of the problem of the opportunities of people with a distance from the labour market, but also of people with a non-Western background, who are unfortunately still often discriminated against in the labour market, is the example that Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Van Brenk mentioned about Open Hiring. How do you remove the thresholds for people who are not normally invited to a job interview? I am familiar with the initiatives of the Start Foundation, the three pilots running there. I find it very interesting. I believe that good steps are being taken. I also have contact with the Start Foundation about this. How's it going? This initiative has also been widely brought to the attention of the municipalities. In a number of plans in the Perspective-on-Work pathway, labour market regions are also working on this. You can see that this is taken over in practice at regional levels. The Start Foundation itself evaluates the approach. Of course I follow that with interest and look very closely at the results. The results of the evaluation will be disseminated and discussed with the social partners so that parties can benefit from it. So I very much agree with both Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Weyenberg that this is a new, innovative way of looking at how we can really help people find a place in the labour market. That's what I'm happy to do. Then block 2 on part-time, labour migration, integration of nuggets, non-contributorys. Mrs Tielen, Mrs Palland, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Smulders asked what obstacles there are for people to work more hours and whether the Minister is prepared to take action, for example by making more hours of work pay better. I fully agree with you. It is indeed remarkable when employers say on the one hand that they are in desperate need of extra people, while on the other hand there are noises that people want to work more. In this untapped workforce of 1 million people there are a few hundred thousand people who say they are already working and would like to work more hours a week, but that they face obstacles. From the discussions and investigations that have already been done, I know that they are different kinds of obstacles. It is indeed about financial incentives, about child care and about the loss of allowances if you get more income, but also about cultural aspects within organisations where it is simply not used that people work full-time. This also has a cultural effect on the workplace, that people assume that you are working in that sector for two or three days. I find that very strange, especially when we see that it is happening in the sectors where there is a lot of tightness. There we can gain a great deal from solving deficits in, for example, health care or education if people work more hours. You know that my colleagues Hugo de Jonge and Arie Slob have both drawn attention to this in their own sectoral plans. We are also currently conducting the interdepartmental policy research on Part-time work. That comes before the end of the year, including a cabinet response, to your Chamber, because we have also seen as a cabinet that this is simply a problem. We need to think creatively about how we can solve this and how we can tap into this untapped labour potential, not only because of shortages in education and care, but also because Mrs Tielen and Mr Van Weyenberg said it because of economic independence and emancipation. There's another world to win. As I said, reducing the burden on labour and raising the child care allowance are a follow-up. Mr Van Kent specifically asked about the sawing tooth versus the slide on this point. I recognize that very well, so we also have an inter-departmental policy research supplement going on at the end of the year. We have already taken a step there, for example with the rent allowance. There we had a very hard limit; if someone had just earned a euro more, he would decline €150 per month, with very painful consequences. Two weeks ago, I spoke to a group of people who said, "Then I started working and I made a little more money, and then I had to pay back €3,500 in supplements a year later." Of course, that doesn't motivate at all. So in the rent payment, we chose to do so more gradually. That is already in last year's Tax Plan of Secretary of State Snel, but I hope that there will be new instruments in the IBO Supplements to ensure that indeed Mr Van Kent is there that saw tooth becomes more of a slide and that more work actually pays more. In other words, the marginal pressure is reduced there too. I am always saying this because I have ten years of experience with these discussions, even when I was still in your Chamber, that it is not easy. Because it's always about purchasing power, it's always about marginal pressure, it's always about income support for specific groups. But I very much agree with him on the point that Mr Van Kent addressed. There's another world to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u50	Surely there is still a whole world to win. I just wanted to get back to the previous point. I'll come back to more hours of work in the second term. The Minister rightly mentioned the health and education sectors. And yes, there are texts in the sectoral action plans, but I have to admit that I do not have the impression that these are the things that have been picked up with the greatest speed. So I would like to ask the Minister if he would ask the two colleagues to be very specific in these sectors, not just one, not two, but three teeth, and to inform the Chamber about this before the Social Affairs budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u51	My image is different. For me, colleagues De Jonge and Slob are really actively working on this. I see these people every week, of course, and I tend to defend them anyway. Apart from that, there will be a progress report by VWS colleagues on this issue in the autumn. I will look into whether this can be done before the budget debate on SZW, because I think the question is correct. Here, on the labour market, I also have a responsibility and a real profit to make. Ah, Ministers Slob and Van Engelshoven sent you a letter yesterday about the progress of their approach. Unfortunately, I have not been able to read it myself, but I will bring this point to the attention of Mr De Jonge and Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you. I know there's a lot of work going on. Only, just at this point, I would say: just have a conversation with the two sectors and, for example, have a conversation every year with all their employees in small part-time jobs: do you want to expand, what can I do? Those forms of enthusiasm and also a little off-road thinking are missing in both action plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u53	I take this point with me to the cabinet and to my colleagues. Once again, I agree with the questions put by Mrs Tielen and Mr Van Weyenberg that there is simply a great workforce here that we need to make better use of different options. I think that would be beneficial to society as a whole. In this context, Mr Van Weyenberg also asked whether we could examine whether and why requests for an increase in the number of hours, if people indicate that they want to work more hours themselves, are being refused. Unfortunately, I only have old figures, I do not have more recent figures, but in 2008 an evaluation was carried out of the law at the time called the Work Time Adjustment Act. This shows that 75% of employers have never refused a request. When a request for an increase in hours is rejected, 90% of the cases are due to lack of budget, work and formation space. I say right away that these are very old figures. By the way, the labour market was very tight at the time, because it was before the financial and economic crisis. There was also a high degree of job vacancy at that time. So in that sense, the labour market situation is similar. But I also hear a lot of signals, especially from those sectors where this is frequent, that it is indeed a cultural or organisational issue. So I would also like to take this question with me in the context of Mr Van Weyenberg's previous question to the colleagues and the cabinet and also towards the IBO Part-time work that will be published at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u54	I'll come back to this in second term, I think. One of my questions, for example, is whether people even know that they have the right and whether they are not trying to do it informally rather than with the law in hand. I think, for example, that the argument that it does not fit in the schedules plays a major role. But I think it would be a good idea for us to have a closer look at this. I think people have a right to reject it only in very exceptional cases. I wonder if people do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u55	At the risk of my question being dealt with in the heading 'other', I note that I have not yet heard the Minister talk about the possibility of continuing work after the age of AOW. Last night we had a debate here on the CBR, where there is a huge shortage of medical examiners. Retirement doctors, who would like to do something, without pressure, difficult schedules and weekend services, could do that kind of thing. I don't hear the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u56	That question is indeed covered by the heading 'other', but if you ask the question now, I would be happy to answer it immediately. Last week we had a debate in this Chamber on pensions. Mr Van der Linde of the VVD and Mrs Van Brenn also drew attention to this. I have already indicated that I very much agree with that. I believe that we should remove obstacles to continuing work after the age of AOW. My view is that we have done this as a government, as far as tax and organisational barriers are concerned. There are no arrangements that will stop working any longer. However, it remains a voluntary choice of individual employers and individual workers. Also within the government, in my own ministry, I see people who voluntarily choose to work longer, because they just like it. In case of cramped jobs, such as doctors at the CBR, but also the doctors at the UWV, where the same problem arises in the execution, this is a very interesting target group to approach. I'm very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u57	In that light, I also asked the question whether the Minister would like to be critical of the Malie Tower, because there was the immediate reaction: we decide for ourselves; we do not really want people to continue working.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u58	I don't mind being critical of the Malie Tower anyway; that's one of the nice parts of my profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u59	For the viewers at home, who lives there again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u60	The employers' organisations live there, VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands. By the way, I often have very good discussions with these clubs, especially when it comes to how the government and employers can strengthen each other to bring goals closer. Think of the broad perspective and a lot of other topics. Last week's debate with Mr Van der Linde was about the legal right to say that the AOW age is not the moment when employer and employee decide that the contract of employment will be terminated. This is a fundamental debate which we have had a number of times in recent years. Employers take the view that it is the individual choice of the employer and the employee to pursue the employment relationship. I agree, otherwise you will have the situation that there is no natural moment when people retire. Apart from the above, in recent years, the proportion of people working over the AOW age has increased. That is something I welcome. We have removed the obstacles that existed to make this possible. I think that's the royal way. Mr Smulders spoke specifically about the availability of childcare and, as a follow-up, the care leave debate, following last year's budget treatment. As I said in my introduction, the cabinet invests heavily in the accessibility and quality of childcare. The Secretary of State has made extra €250 million available for income support. But there has also been additional money for the group composition of how many children per leader? So the quality is also heavily invested. With the cradle we have introduced the extension of birth leave for partners. It's gonna be six weeks in the middle of next year. This also helps, of course, in the combination of work and care. We now also have the campaign "Are you out already?" walk. This is an information campaign aimed precisely at men and women with young children and at the division of labour and care, because we very often see that men continue to work and women decide to work less or even withdraw from the labour market. Of course, that is a free choice, where the cabinet does not act, but it does have long-term implications. I am thinking of career prospects, income levels and economic independence. This awareness campaign aims to support the cabinet, so that people really make a conscious choice when, for example, they choose to organise a division of labour and care. The question of whether this is enough or whether we can do more in a more effective, more efficient way, has been raised with the ibo Part Time. So that question is included, because it is actually part of work and care. We also included, for example, the debate on care leave, following the motion for a resolution last year in the budget debate. This comes before Christmas with a cabinet response to your Chamber. Unfortunately, I cannot promise that this will be for the budget, because then the report will not be ready. I wish I could, but I can't. It also includes the discussion on making leave forms more attractive, not just care leave but broader forms of leave, in order to boost labour potential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u61	Can the Minister indicate how concrete this cabinet response is going to be? Last year we tabled a motion saying that we actually wanted a cabinet plan on making care leave more attractive in mid-2019. I have a different view of this: there will be an inter-departmental inquiry sometime in the autumn, and we will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u62	This is almost a complicated philosophical question, because the advice is not yet available. So I cannot yet indicate how concrete the cabinet response is going to be. I have indicated that I think this is an important point. I consider the unused labour potential to be an important issue, and in fact the Netherlands' position of exception internationally compared. Compared to the countries around us, the Netherlands has a high participation rate, but it really lags behind in the number of hours. So in terms of potential we still have much to gain here, of course within the limits of freedom of choice and people's own choice, because I am also a liberal. People need to be able to make their own choices. The opinion is not yet available, so I cannot yet indicate how ambitious the cabinet response is. I can't tell you until the advice comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u63	I'm afraid that's what we need to do now. T.z.t. I'm going to read the cabinet response with high expectations. I hope we're not disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u64	I always hope, Mr President, that Mr Smeulders is not disappointed. Because that would be very annoying. Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether labour migration could contribute to the fight against poverty. As mentioned in the letter on how to tackle labour shortages, there is still a great deal of labour potential in the Netherlands that can be mobilised: the 1 million people included in the untapped workforce. In addition, migrant workers make an important contribution to the Dutch economy, but in general they are not the solution to the shortage in the labour market. In general terms, migrant workers from outside Europe can be admitted to jobs for which no one in the Netherlands or within the European Union has been able to find. If vacancies cannot be filled, an employment permit may be applied for. An employer must always first exploit the supply of workers within the Netherlands and the European Union. Moreover, recent discussions with colleagues from Eastern Europe have shown, for example, in connection with the discussion on the export WW but also in the context of the discussion on the Social Coordination Regulation 883............................................................................................................................................................... I spoke to my Czech colleague. Unemployment is even lower there than in the Netherlands. I also spoke with my Polish colleague. There too there is a tight labour market, which means that people move less to Western Europe to work there, but stay in Poland precisely because the labour market situation there has improved significantly. This includes a discussion about the concerns that exist about housing, for example. The Polish ambassador visited me on the concerns of migrant workers working in the Netherlands about poor housing, poor pay and unfair working conditions. Together with my colleagues Mona Keijzer, the Secretary of State for EZK, and Kajsa Ollongren, I sent an action plan for the summer to address the abuses of migrant workers. As far as I am concerned, Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP has frequently called for attention to be paid to this. Good employership is also part of this. If you want to get people from outside the Netherlands to fill vacancies, you will have to offer them good working conditions, but also good housing. In general, as the labour market is tighter, the UWV can grant more employment permits if an employer can demonstrate that there is no potential in the Netherlands or within the European Union. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether I had already received a list of employers of obstacles to labour migration. No, I haven't gotten that yet. I didn't get any lists. Nor have I received any requests from employers on this point. However, I note from discussions with employers that they recognize that economic development in Eastern Europe is such that it is also more difficult to find people for a job in the Netherlands. This includes the discussion on working conditions and housing. But I didn't get a list of employers' obstacles, so I don't recognize that. Mrs Palland asked if I could give an overview of progress on the quiet reserves in, for example, care, police and so on. Mr Slob has researched the group of long-term unemployed from education, because recently too, before the summer holidays, there was a large influx into the WW, the quiet reserves with a WW benefit. Mr Slob briefed your Chamber on 12 July. That must have been the Education Committee. This study shows that there are several obstacles in this group to getting back to work in education. Some of these barriers have to do with personal factors, such as health and advanced age in relation to the duration of WW, so that the incentive to work is limited. Part of it relates to the attractiveness of the work in education itself. Nevertheless, research shows that within these quiet reserves there is also a group of WW'ers with return potential that can really be used to solve vacancies in education. There is a comment to be made. A large proportion of this group reaches retirement age within five years. But that is without prejudice to the fact that for the next few years there is a very great potential that can be used to get that teacher in the classroom. That is what Mr Slob is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you for the Minister's response. This indeed indicates that there is a potential in education at least, but the question was also whether there are similar initiatives in the care and police sector and whether these silent reserves can be depicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u66	We can't see that. So we have already done specific research on Education, at least that is what Mr Slob has done, but following on from Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the action plans for care and education, I would like to take this point with my colleagues, Mr Graperhaus and Mr De Jonge, to see whether they can also give such an insight into the untapped potential in, for example, the WW. That's what I'm happy to say. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Smeulders asked about the integration policy and the fact that status holders in the Netherlands very often end up in a welfare allowance. Last week there were new figures showing that this position is still very bad. This also has to do with the integration system, which focuses too little on learning the language and also too little on getting to work quickly. This can be done through voluntary work, through internships, but also through paid employment. I am convinced that working and learning language go hand in hand and can strengthen each other. That's part of my new law, too. As you know, this law on change-making integration is almost complete and negotiations are under way with municipalities on the funding and the budgets available for it. As you know, there is now a joint investigation into its financing. I hope to be able to inform you of our progress before the budgetary procedure. I hope that we too will be able to deal with that law quickly. In anticipation of that law, many municipalities are already working on this approach. That's a good thing. In Leiden, Zwijndrecht and Amsterdam, municipalities are also really working to help status holders get to work. There are a lot of companies that see that it can also be a solution for filling vacancies. I was recently in the East of the Netherlands with Alliander, a network company that within a year trained ten status holders to be an electrician for the company and offered them a job directly. I think that this is extremely good developments, which are in line with my integration law and which can make people work faster. This includes raising the language level to B1. We're working on all these steps. It happens partly in practice, but there is really another world to win. That's gotta be a lot better than the way it is right now. The new Integration Act should enter into force on 1 January 2021. In advance, I hope and expect and am convinced that municipalities are already going to work along that road to achieve this. So much for my second block. Then there's the third block: education. Just before the recess, we had a wide-ranging debate on how to develop for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u67	So we can do that briefly and pointy now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yeah, I'm gonna do that short and pointy. Soon I will send a letter together with Minister Van Engelshoven on how to develop a lifelong approach. This includes Mrs Palland and Mrs Tielen's point about the cross-sector R & D funds. I think it is one of the positive developments, of course, that things are going too slowly and that it should all be faster to see cooperation between R&D funds in declining and growing sectors at the moment. Mrs Mariëtte Hamer, president of the ESC, has drawn up a target agenda in this context, precisely to encourage and encourage such initiatives. The day before yesterday, I spoke with Mrs Koster, the chairman of the Technics Pact, in which such initiatives are to take place at regional level. There are a lot of shortages in technical sectors. This is part of lifelong policy development, alongside the STEP budget and the EUR 200 million that we are going to make available as a government for personal learning accounts. You will receive these letters shortly, in the autumn, on behalf of Mrs Van Engelshoven and myself. We will, of course, have a debate to take that step forward. As you also know, I am in consultation with the UWV on the STAP budget. Mr Harry van der Molen of the CDA has asked questions about it, which I will answer shortly. Ms Tielen asked why there was less investment in R&D. I don't recognize that image. This spring, research carried out by the employers' association AWVN showed that around 1.7 billion euros were available for sustainable employability. That's in line with the past few years. What I do recognize is that employers are less inclined to free people from school in times of cramping. The production needs to be turned. People can't take classes. In fact, this is a poor development, which only leads to people not being well educated when the economy and the economy are changing and unemployment is rising again. In fact, you should make this a structural part of human resources policy, human resources policy, in those sectors. We also call for attention to be paid to this. Following the Wiersma motion, we intend to ask the Economic and Social Committee for its opinion on how to arrive at a clear overview of private resources available for training. Besides the STEP budget, public money, we have the R&D funds. Moreover, more and more collective agreements have personal learning accounts. This is a challenge: how are we going to make each other understand how much budget is available and how people can direct their own education? We also know that a lot of people do not automatically do it themselves and need a push. They must be supported by the employer, because otherwise they simply do not do it. That would be a terrible waste in this changing economy. There will soon be extensive letters and a wide-ranging debate on this issue. The last question in this context is Mr Van Kent's question on WW and training. Mr Van Weyenberg and the coalition have tabled a motion during the 2018 budget debate to make 30 million available for the UWV and training. In the first phase that did not go well, because it was just too little used. As a result, we have extended and made the scheme more accessible. And indeed, if people with a distance from the labour market or a background that does not really match the demand on the labour market are in the WW, training can be a good tool for getting back into the labour market, but it remains tailor-made. It remains to be seen whether this really is a good tool for helping people from one sector to another. It's also public money, so we have to make choices about that. However, with the UWV, we have come up with solutions to remove obstacles to training and thereby to promote the use of the 30 million. I do not have the recent figures, but my impression from the conversations with people at UWV is that things are going better now than last year, but I can come back to that in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u69	I'd love to go to the second term, so if we could all sort of wrap it all up a little bit, I'd be happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u70	I had asked the very specific question whether the Minister would like to make an extra effort to make this part of the investment agenda. Does he want to fill out that tuition bill right now? Is that what he's trying to do in the cabinet? I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u71	As part of the government agreement, we have made available 200 million on the burden side for individual learning accounts. There are no plans to increase that amount in the short term. However, I can see that agreements are being made between employers and employees at collective agreement level in order to substantially increase the training budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u72	The question I had was very specific. We regularly receive complaints from people who are keen to receive training, but who are not allowed to do so by the UWV, because they must be available for the labour market. I had asked whether the Minister could ensure that the UWV would never use that as a reason if someone wanted to retrain to a deficit profession, for example if someone wanted to be trained to work in health care or education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u73	I understand the question, but I also understand the consideration that the UWV makes in this. The UWV also looks at whether it is the most appropriate way, the best way to bring people back to the labour market from unemployment benefit. If people have a large distance from the labour market or have too few opportunities to get to work, training can be a good tool to help them. But sometimes that's not the case. And an education isn't done in a month. It's gonna take a longer time. So not for all people it is the right way to return to the labour market. It's custom-made, but I did broaden the scheme so that more people can take advantage of it. I also discussed with the UWV that this can be used. In general, however, I do not agree with Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u74	I can imagine. That's not what I'm saying either. Here's what I'm talking about. The shortages in care are huge. And we've seen reports from schools that couldn't find teachers this summer. If people would like to be retrained to stand in front of the classroom and hear no from the UWV because they should be available for the labour market, I cannot explain that. Can the Minister explain that? Or can he make the UWV answer yes instead of no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u75	I find this an example that I understand very well that the UWV makes a different consideration. A course to become a teacher, whether it's the pabo, a higher vocational training or a teacher's training, will take four years, unless you're a side-intromer or otherwise have acquired competences. If you are a side-intromer and have worked in another sector, for example the technique, and you want to become a technical teacher, this can be a good route. But if you work in a sector where you never have anything to do with education, there's just a very big distance between your own work experience and the qualifications to be able to stand in front of the classroom. That's why it stays customized and you can't say generically that's a good route. I agree with Mr Van Kent that, if this is the way to promote the side-influx into education of, for example, people who come out of the profession and want to teach it, for example in an MBO school, this can be a way. But not always.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u76	I think we're getting somewhere, because I think we agree that if people want to take that step, they should. Of course, if there's no other way. But there are also teacher training courses where you work one day and four days in front of the class, with all kinds of variants. Does the Minister agree with the SP that there can still be thresholds for people to participate in such a training pathway? Is the Minister prepared to say here that these thresholds should not be there if the conditions set out by the Minister are indeed fulfilled? Because we are getting signals that there are still problems there, despite the 30 million that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u77	I don't know those signals, but I'll take them back. I'll check with the UWV. The fact that 30 million is available for training already indicates that I very much agree with you that this could be a good way. But if there are any obstacles in practice, I'd like to look at them. I would like to say that to Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u78	Fine. Now, please, in a rounding atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u79	Again, all the questions that have been asked about Prince's Day and purchasing power will be on Prince's Day next week. So I'm gonna leave it for now. Combination jobs, was Mrs Palland's question. This is a multidimensional matter, which makes one approach and one appreciation difficult. When you read the SER advice on the combination jobs, it is partly about people who are forced to have combination jobs and partly about people who just like it. Working on the beach in summer and being a ski instructor in winter is the classic example. Sometimes it's about bad awareness of schemes, but it's often about very specific situations. There are employers who want to solve these obstacles, including in health care and education, especially when it comes to this tightness. In general, however, it is difficult to impose a kind of joke on it and to draw up policies. That really is tailor-made work at sectoral level between employers and employees. Mr. De Graaf, from the PVV, asked whether it was not time to cut or stop the unemployment benefit for those who refuse to work. As you know, the participation law includes the requirement of consideration and the language requirement. The Secretary of State is conducting an ongoing investigation into this. I think that will be discussed in the AO this afternoon about the Participation Act. This is indeed about how we are going to ensure that people who are distanced from the labour market and, for example, do not speak the language, learn the language. As far as I am concerned, this is in line with Mr Smeulder's question on the new Integration Act. In a few days, municipalities will be arranging the language for the status holders. It could well be that they are buying language courses for people in the assistance, with which they are activated to learn the language and thus get to work. So in terms of image and direction, Mr De Graaf and I agree. A further step can be taken there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u80	Thank you for that answer. In the previous cabinet period, when that law was strengthened, many things changed in the social field, such as flexibility. At that time I indicated that there are always open ends to such a law, including in the Participation Act, which allow civil servants in the city halls to decide at their discretion whether someone has done their best. The law's a little broad interpretation because of those loose ends. Now the Minister says again that we may be buying language courses. But what is the moment when there is once a punishment and an example is set? How many benefits have ended and been cut off in the end? I think they can be counted on one hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u81	The discussion about the responsibility of municipalities is always difficult. The Work and Assistance Act is the responsibility of the municipalities. As a Empire, we make a budget available for this and set a number of conditions within the Participation Act that municipalities must comply with, but implementation is really taking place at local level. You can also see very large differences between the municipalities, both in the approach and in the vision of what will work best. From the previous period I remember a discussion about the Rotterdam approach and the Amsterdam approach. The fundamental point is that municipalities have the freedom to do so. They are responsible for that themselves. However, the Secretary of State, bearing in mind the government agreement, is engaged in making non-binding agreements with municipalities on the activation of people in the assistance and on a language requirement. But again, this afternoon, your Chamber has a general meeting with the Secretary of State. I would like to refer to that, because it is politically responsible for this and it is also doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u82	I understand that the Secretary of State is responsible for policy, but the Minister is ultimately responsible for the entire ministry. The moment of giving punishment once, one shortcut or one stealing something, never comes. That's still an open end. Isn't it time, for example, to ask the Minister, who is responsible for the Ministry, to amend that law and say: we should restrict the freedom of municipal policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u83	It's a silly answer, but I know this discussion is now under way. I know that there are currently studies on what municipalities are doing in practice to shape the activation. This can be done through a return, through social activation or through the resolution of debt issues that people are dealing with. That investigation is currently under way. That's what the Chamber is talking about this afternoon with the Secretary of State. She's better informed of the latest stand and the latest figures than I am. Again, in terms of direction, we do not even differ so much. I think we should give people opportunities, but if people don't take those opportunities, then we should encourage people and, if necessary, go after them to get them to work. So we do not agree very much on the direction, but the discussion really needs to be conducted with the Secretary of State, because she knows much better than I do what is the latest state of affairs in this area. That is already happening this afternoon, so Mr De Graaf can report to the general consultation Act this afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you. Is there a need for a second term? You don't have to, but that's the case. Then I'll go off the list. Mrs Tielen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u85	I'm gonna take a look at the clock. Do I have that little time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u86	Yes, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u87	I thought I had four minutes. Can I only get two minutes before the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u88	You have one minute and twenty seconds. That's a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u89	I'd like to negotiate a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u90	There's no negotiation with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u91	But I'm gonna have to find other ways to do that with this chairman. Mr. Chairman. We have made an appeal to the Minister to work with urgency and decisiveness with that cut. We've heard a lot about that. We hear OCW, VWS, JenV and Defense are all working on the deficits. My question to this minister is actually: is he prepared to take on a little more coordination as a sort of primus inter pairs among his colleagues when it comes to this cut, so that the approaches can be combined, we can learn from each other's experiences and, above all, we can not all go fishing in the same pond? Besides, I have two motions. I'm not going to explain it, I'm just going to name it quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that investment from collective bargaining funds in Training & Development and employment has decreased;]] [[Whereas a quarter of all entrepreneurs are understaffed and retraining can contribute significantly to their resolution;]] [[calls on the government to make concrete proposals for improvement in autumn together with SMEs' employers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a quarter of all entrepreneurs are understaffed;]] [[whereas more than one million people in the Netherlands are sidelined or want to work more;]] [[Considering that SMEs provide most of our earning capacity and employment in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to give SMEs additional priority in tackling labour shortages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-940]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-941]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have two motions, in view of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are staff shortages in many sectors;]] [[Whereas 368.000 part-time workers, including many women, want to work more and be readily available for this purpose;]] [[Whereas not half of women are financially independent;]] [[Whereas, for example, the adjustment of working hours, the organisation of work and financial incentives can lead to (more) people expanding their working hours;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with social partners to promote the expansion of working hours;]] [[calls on the government also to identify with the social partners how part-time workers can work more, for example by rewarding additional (financial) work in collective agreements or by including a periodic supply of additional hours and removing bottlenecks;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law gave workers flexibility the right to request a change in their working time;]] [[noting that employers may depart from this only in the case of significant business or service interests which oppose the application;]] [[Whereas in a number of sectors where part-time work is relatively high and the shortage of staff is high, as is the case in education and care, many requests for an increase in working time are rejected;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the way in which requests for an extension of working time are handled, the frequent recourse to important business and service interests and the frequent submission of such requests to a judge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-942]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-943]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mr. Chairman. The Minister referred to the letter from the two leaders of Education on how to tackle tightness. For example, there is a lot in it about the side-inflow, but nothing at all about how to do more hours of work in that sector. And that, as far as I am concerned, is the core. I would very much appreciate a report on this motion before the budget debate, including those of these leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u94	Thank you. Mr Smeulders from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a debate on the shortage of the labour market, but I feel it especially as the major debate on this subject. I started writing along halfway: Minister Slob, Minister Van Engelshoven, Minister De Jonge, Minister Grapperhaus, Minister Ollongren, Secretary of State Snel, Secretary of State Van Ark and Secretary of State Keijzer, and I may have missed a few more. We understand that this is wide and that it affects a lot of ministries, a lot of sectors. I would like to wholeheartedly endorse Mrs Tielen's call for her to be here for the first time as Social Affairs spokesman, so it is nice to get together to let Social Affairs perhaps be a little more primus interpares. Because a great deal is happening now, in many different places, and I think it is right that you, as the final manager of the labour market cabinet, should really be in charge of it. There are no further motions on our part. I am particularly curious about Princess' Day next week to hear what you are going to do in concrete terms to tackle labour shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thank you. Then Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is because, at least, we seem to agree with a large number of the groups. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to develop various scenarios in which the system of supplements is set up in such a way that (more) working is always rewarding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-944]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u98	I had been able to discuss with the Minister in the interrupting debate whether or not to take part in training during the WW. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of labour in certain sectors, including education and care;]] [[Whereas training for people with unemployment benefits is not always allowed because it is necessary to be available for the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that it is available to the labour market never the only reason not to allow training for a recognised qualification for working in a cramped sector;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-945]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you. I call Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. We do have a question about the "green pick" on the MBO. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to check with his colleagues on the quiet reserves of the WW with the police and the care. We have another motion on the ESC report on the combination jobs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2018 the Economic and Social Council (SER) issued an opinion on "Combining Jobs';]] [[Whereas working should also pay wages and more work;]] [[Whereas a combination job offers the opportunity to gain experience in another sector while at the same time combining jobs can contribute to solving labour shortages;]] [[Whereas for this purpose it is important that obstacles, such as laws and regulations which do not take into account people with multiple jobs or unknownness to existing information relevant to job combiners, be removed as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to further identify obstacles to job reconciliation, how they could be removed and how job reconciliation can be facilitated for both workers and employers;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Court of Justice about this in the first quarter of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-946]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u102	Then Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a potential of 1 million people, you have to take advantage of every opportunity and embrace every new opportunity. That is why I have tabled a motion to support this Minister in his efforts to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the labour market is suffering from a considerable labour shortage;]] [[Whereas 55-plussers, people with a migration background and those with disabilities are still difficult to get to work;]] [[considers that prejudices in application procedures for people with greater distance from the labour market should be broken;]] [[invites the government, in consultation with the social partners and VNG, to consider whether and, if so, how "open-hire" can increase employment opportunities for people with the greatest distance from the labour market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-947]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u104	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u105	Two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u106	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to do it short and pointy. The first question in the second period, which was put by Mrs Tielen, but also by Mr Smeulders, was about the fact that I referred to many colleagues. That is true, because the public sector is large and covers very different sectors, such as the Empire, the care sector, education, the police and Defence. The challenges within a sector are already diverse; moreover, they are often different from one region to another and from one profession to another. Let me give you an example. There are several directors dealing with the shortage of insurance doctors, or doctors in general. The same applies to the CBR and the UWV, but also to colleagues De Jonge and Bruins at the ministry of VWS. It is therefore logical and desirable that those sectors that have the most insight into the nature and extent of the challenges should also pursue sector-specific policies in addressing labour market constraints. I'm from the system. I am here for the entire Dutch economy, not for specific sectors, but for the whole labour market in a broad sense. The Minister of BZK is the coordinator for the labour market position of the Empire. I also do not want to be in the position of being the coordinator of all sectors. I just can't live up to that. SZW has the responsibility for the labour market in a broad sense, for the system and all general laws that are relevant to all sectors of the Dutch economy. We do work together a lot. Take, for example, the cooperation between the security domain, where Defence cooperates with Customs, the Judicial Institutions and the Fire Department. For example, we can keep people who are out of service in the Defense Department for the public sector, for example in the police or customs. There is very good cooperation there. There are also other exchange routes. Interdepartmental work is regularly reviewed where public sector approaches can reinforce each other. I am talking, for example, about sharing experiences and using people who become redundant in another sector. But every sector has a specific approach. In this context, I would like to assure Mr Van Weyenberg that I will send his message to colleagues on part-time work. For me, it's two points. The ibo part-time runs; that comes out before Christmas. At the same time, I recognise the point that there is still untapped labour resources in those sectors, for which part-time work could be a solution. I will take it back to my colleagues and come back to this for the budget debate. Then... I'll shut up for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u108	I understand very well that the Minister does not want to be ultimately responsible for all deficits and that it is also going by sector. I understand all that very well. At the same time, I think it is a real shame that we, together with all kinds of colleagues, receive a letter every month from another department which apparently does not include experience; I am referring now to what Mr Van Weyenberg said. I don't think it's weird at all when there's someone who at least takes care of it. I actually hear the Minister say that learning points are being exchanged, that things that work well are being shared and that please we don't put time and money into things that don't work. Does the Minister not want to show a little more that he wants to take on some coordinating role, not so much in terms of content as in terms of the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u109	Formally, it is so sorry for this formalistic response that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for the national sectors. She also has a management in the department that coordinates this. For example, the pension negotiations and the working conditions negotiations also come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If I go too far into this employers' role, I can play my other role, that of the guardian of the polder, of the general interest in the labour market, less well. I do agree with Mrs Tielen that experience within sectors should be shared. That's what I'm trying to do. I'm taking over her encouragement. I try to share these experiences very well with my colleagues. I very much agree with Mrs Tielen on such a point as regards part-time payments, allowances or unused labour. I would also urge colleagues to see how we can use this state-wide, or perhaps even the other public sectors, for example in the municipalities. So I'd like to take that encouragement to heart. I'd like to get on with that. But formally your Chamber talks to the Minister of the Interior about the human resources of the government, and also discuss deficits in, for example, care and education with all my colleagues in various committees. But now I'm creating too many contradictions. I think we're basically on the same page. I just don't want to get that responsibility, because I can't do that. Then I'm gonna be in a double roll, too. Mr President, the motions. You look very strict. The motion in part No. 940 by Mrs Tielen, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg are concerned with SMEs. That is a valid point. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 941 by Ms Tielen and Ms Palland, the government calls on SMEs to give extra priority to tackling labour shortages. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. The motion in part No. 942 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Tielen, the government calls on the social partners to identify how part-time workers can work more, for example by providing additional financial rewards in collective agreements or a periodic supply of additional hours and removing bottlenecks. As I have already said, I think that the Members of Parliament are asking an interesting and justified question. There's an ibo part-time, but I think this is such a nice point that I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u110	The motion has judgment room, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u111	Yeah, before I know it, I'm gonna have to apply nuances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u112	I asked if we could get an update on what came out of those talks for the budget. So that's a bit wider than the point of OCW and VWS. So not only is the public sector working on this, but employers are also working on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u113	Yeah, yeah. Sorry, I'm gonna do that. I'm going to discuss this with the Labour Foundation. I am trying to put something back on this before the budget debate. The motion in part No. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Smeulders asked the government to examine the way in which requests for enlargement were handled. I was just referring to an old investigation from 2008. I understand the demand for more recent figures very well. For the Work Flexible Act, there was already a legal basis to make a request to adjust the working time. I just called the 2008 figures. The Work Flexible Act of 2015 states that the law will be reviewed after five years. An evaluation study will therefore be carried out in 2020 to take this into account. That's why I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. I'm incredibly flexible today, Mr. Chairman. Do you hear it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u114	And mostly coulant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u115	Coulant too, yeah. I am going to continue with that line in the direction of Mr Van Kent. His motion, the motion in part No. 944, calls on the government to develop various scenarios in which the system of supplements is set up in such a way that more work is always rewarding. I think that's a nice thought. I agree; I agree with the intention. I find the word "always" complicated, because I am afraid that we cannot always live up to it, because there are income-dependent schemes everywhere that are intended to support people with low incomes, not only from the Empire and the Tax Administration but also from the municipal level. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that I very much endorse the intention and that this is also part of the ibo surcharges, then I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber. With regard to the word 'always', I have made the remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u116	The motion can be read in the manner in which the Minister explains the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u117	Fine, that's documented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u118	Then I have worse news for Mr Van Kent on his motion in part No. 945. I already took the previous motion, so you can't go back. The motion calls on the government to ensure that it should be available to the labour market never be the sole reason for not allowing training for a recognised diploma. As we have just discussed in an interrupting debate, this is tailor-made. Training in the WW is in principle always possible, as long as someone remains available for the labour market. That's the line that's in it. Availability for the labour market remains an important condition. The purpose of the WW is activation. It is not efficient and effective to exempt people in the WW genericly from availability for the labour market if they want to school themselves towards cramped. I have just given examples of where this might be the case and where it cannot be the case. Some of the jobseekers can find new jobs without the use of training. For this reason, the UWV grants exemption from the application requirement if the UWV considers the training necessary for finding work. The 30 million from the Wiersma/Van Weyenberg/Bruins/Heerma motion stimulates training towards crappy professions. If the UWV finances training of the job seeker towards a crappy job, the beneficiary is automatically exempted from the obligation to apply. That is also customization, because you have to give people time to pursue that training. In a generic sense, therefore, I cannot give this motion a ruling Chamber. So I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u119	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u120	I have chosen the phrase 'never be the only reason'. In other words, there may be other reasons why the training cannot be followed, but only the reason that one needs to be available for the labour market is not enough to refuse a request for training. I had hoped that on the basis of that wording we could agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u121	I just tried to explain that I didn't. The basic attitude is that everyone must be available to work from the WW. The UWV may deviate from this if people are educated. That's the order. This wording is the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u122	Fine. The motion in part No. 946.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u123	The motion in part No. 946, by Mrs Palland, Mr Amhaouch and Mrs Tielen, on obstacles to the reconciliation of jobs. The SER explored the phenomenon of combination jobs in 2018. As I have just said, it is very diverse and the motives are different and not to be caught in one nut. The ESC has identified a number of obstacles that may make it difficult to combine those jobs, such as the poor awareness of schemes and the provisional return facility. If I may read your motion as an appeal to the Cabinet to discuss these points with the ESC, I can give this judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mrs Palland nods, so that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u125	You're moving too fast. I had a few extra sentences, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u126	You'll tweet it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u127	Then the motion to part No. 947, by Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Van Weyenberg. I have already said that I find it very sympathetic and very interesting to follow on from the open hearing and the ongoing initiatives of the Start Foundation. So I'd like to give that motion a ruling, Chamber. All in all, Mr. Chairman, I'm incredibly generous. I disappointed Mr Van Kent once, but I also made him very happy once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u128	We'll cross that off against each other. Thanks to the Minister for being with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u129	We shall vote on these motions on 24 September. That's in two weeks. After all, next week we have Prince's Day. I'm suspending to the clock at 2:30 p.m. Then we're going to vote on the VSO and the VAO this morning. So we're going to vote at 2:30 p.m. We then have the arrangement of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u130	So I've been in such a hurry so that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u131	Yeah, so we can have a good meal. Thank you, Minister. So far.
