ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the budget for Kingdom relations (Room 35300-IV). We held the first term on the side of the Chamber last Tuesday. Today the Secretary of State for the first term of office on the part of the government. The Secretary of State, whom I would like to welcome, will answer the questions asked. I'll give you the floor in a minute, but first I want the duped... Sorry, I mean the deputy. That's always a problem here. I would like to welcome the deputy of Bonaire, Mr Tjin Asjoe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. It's a special day today, because it's the president's birthday. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u4	Then I get to make a mistake!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u5	That, anyway. Congratulations. But it is also a special day because today, exactly nine years after 10-10-10, we are talking about the budget of Kingdom relations. I would like to thank Members for their input in the first term. Given the variety of issues raised in the first period, I will try to give some structure to my response in the first period, because I know that the President likes it. We had a new political relationship on 10-10-10, in which three countries and three public bodies were created, the special municipalities of the Netherlands. For me, as well as for those involved at the time, I have spoken about many of those people, some of whom are still in parliament; Mr Van Raak has already referred to this, and has always been at the heart of the choice to organise it so that the interests of the people should be served. Whether this happens in practice in all cases, I will come back to it in a moment, because unfortunately the answer is no. Over the past two years, I have experienced that cooperation is very often good, but also too often difficult. It is difficult because there is incomprehension about each other's position and because there are cultural differences. Sometimes I wonder what interest someone's in. I am just saying it very unbroken, in good Dutch, because that is something that concerns me and which was also very explicitly mentioned in the contributions of a number of Members in the first term. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I replied in writing to some of them yesterday. There are many questions that see in the areas of colleagues in the cabinet. As you know, I have a coordinating role with regard to Kingdom relations, but the ministerial responsibilities are still invested with the respective rulers. I'm glad it's being picked up so widely. We have already had debates on this. I am increasingly seeing that there is a great deal of involvement in other departments than BZK in what is happening on the islands, especially in the Caribbean Netherlands, of course, because there are direct responsibilities for the departments, but also for the countries, which involve several departments, such as Foreign Affairs, Defence and Justice. I would like to build up my speech as follows. I would like to say a few words about the situation at St Maarten, in which I would like to explain in particular the case law of the airport. I would then like to talk about the financial situation in Aruba and Curaçao in particular. The third block deals with the impact of developments in Venezuela on the Kingdom. Finally, I would like to comment on the Caribbean Netherlands and I will try to sum up a number of individual questions under the various headings. I would like to comment on progress later in my speech. When it comes to the concerns, I want to start with the countries. In fact, we can see that all three countries are deeply concerned about good governance and about increasing corruption and undermining. That varies from country to country, but I see movements everywhere. There have been court rulings everywhere, including in recent months, on cases in which members have been sentenced, to cabinets, or on which investigations are under way. This also immediately affects law enforcement and the national task in the context of 10-10-10. This is currently happening with heavy support from the Netherlands, and we see major problems. A number of Members have also spoken about this. Let me start with Saint Martin. On September 22, I flew to Saint Martin. When I landed and turned on my phone, I received all sorts of messages and found that during my flight the cabinet of St.Maarten had fallen and that the reign of the Romeo-Marlin cabinet had ended. I have been critical of this, but over the past two years I have noticed that they have tried to cooperate with the Netherlands and the World Bank in a good way to enable reconstruction. There are a number of reasons why that did not work out as we thought. That's part of the limited capacity of the island itself, but that's also what I have to formulate very precisely, because that's not all over the band so much in the active political opposition of intentions we had agreed with the World Bank. This is exactly one of those examples that I think you have as an elected director, a representative of the people, to serve the interests of the country and its inhabitants. I have seen a number of examples over the past period that clearly proved the opposite. Sint-Maarten doesn't look good. The effects of the hurricane are still visible, although much has happened in reconstruction, particularly in the private sector. That's how you see hotels being rebuilt. So, in a physical sense, you can see real progress compared to two years ago, partly thanks to the strong commitment of the World Bank. But when it comes to the development of good governance, the way in which politics is practiced, the rapidly consecutive falls of cabinets and political instability, I am deeply concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u6	I see you standing, Mr. Van Raak, but perhaps it's good to finish Saint Martin first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u7	Elections are now being held on St.Maarten for January next year. The way in which this has been achieved has once again caused political turbulence, in which members of the Central Voting Office have made their positions available and the possibility for new parties to join has not been possible. That's settled by now. I'm happy about that. Despite the fact that this cabinet has fallen, because a number of people have defected from one party to another and are now trying to form an interim cabinet, I am pleased that the people are once again given the opportunity to speak out. Although, and I cannot deny that, this will undoubtedly have an impact on the pace of reconstruction. This therefore requires all parties to take a tailor-made approach and constantly respond to this situation. One thing I can say very clearly: in our consideration, in everything we do, there are also a number of questions asked about it. I will always ask myself the question: what can we do in the interests of the population? And if that goes against the importance of how the government acts, then it can occasionally sand. So be it, because we have not spent $550 million in Dutch taxpayers' money to help Saint Martin for nothing. We have done so, with the strong support of Parliament, to help the people there, but not to keep certain politicians in the saddle. Mr. Chairman. During my last visit to Saint Martin I saw that much has happened. On the workplace I have seen a lot of enthusiastic people, people from Saint Martin, people from local NGOs, but also from the World Bank and international NGOs. For example, almost 1,000 houses have now been repaired, 500 houses will soon be started and more than 1,300 inhabitants who were out of work after the hurricane have received training. These people are returned to the labour market, in particular in order to support the construction sector and care. The hospital received 23 million euros from the reconstruction fund, making it hurricane-proof. That is very important, because in the same situation a great hurricane like us would lead to the same damage. We want to avoid that, of course. Hurricane-proof building is therefore of great importance. In addition, EUR 120 million of projects are currently in progress. For example, the restoration of houses, shelters, police stations, utilities and schools, the training projects I mentioned, the hospital and also the treatment of the landfill, in particular the acute protection against fires. In addition, efforts are being made towards the future to restore the airport and sustainable waste management, which is, of course, important in order to prevent the creation of such a waste heap. Mrs Kuik asked how I would ensure that these reconstruction projects could be continued, given the political situation. So that requires customization, every moment of the day, with our people working there. We sometimes have to improvise and, where necessary, support when it comes to capacities. The Dutch Government has also promised to be willing to do so, because the implementation capacity is limited. The trail of these NGOs, those non-governmental organisations, is extremely important, because they have the knowledge and skills and in that first phase have also proved that they are able to shape reconstruction very concretely. We want to ensure that we do not end up in bureaucratic discussions. We want to prevent letters from being written over and over again. People need to talk to each other instead of talking about each other. That's also a piece of culture. That is why I am happy to say today that cooperation between the World Bank and Saint Martin on reconstruction is improving. It's very simple about bringing people together, sitting around the table, watching how we're gonna do it and then getting started. I am not yet positive about dealing with the landfill, that mountain which, as you know, is regularly on fire and causes major health problems. I've sometimes wondered if the sense of urgency in Saint Martin was always as high as here on the other side of the ocean. I believe that the government should make a greater commitment to this. If you want to solve this, you also need a sustainable waste system. I want them to face this consequence and to make concrete proposals, including to the Parliament, to introduce such a new waste system. When I speak of insufficient sense of urgency, I also come to the airport. For me, the airport is actually an example of how it could be done in a good way. 100 million are available, including 50 million in the form of a donation and 50 million in the form of a loan through the European Investment Bank. In July 2018 everything was ready to be executed. The moment you have that ready, of course, you also ask for good governance of such an airport. After all, you want to prevent public companies from being used as a kind of ATM by some individual people who fill their pockets with public money. Then, of course, you can make the condition that all this is well arranged. But what amazes me: then we saw a number of movements, in parliament, but also within the cabinet, of people who did everything they could torpedo that project, who came up with proposals that would be significantly worse for Saint Martin and the airport than the offer we made. I said: if you have a better offer than we do, you can do it yourself, but there is no bank in the world that gives 50 million cash as a gift if you want to start up such a project. At the same time, loans were made at much higher rates than loans from the EIB. This is one example in which politicians did not act in the interests of the inhabitants at all through opposition, corruption and self-enrichment. I'll say, "I'm not gonna let you do that." I'm not gonna accept that. I will do everything in my power not only to do so, but to do so with all the people involved. It should not be the case that the undermining wins there and that those who have evil in mind and put their self-interest above the general interest are the longest. I therefore appeal to the States of Saint Martin to assume their responsibilities in this respect and to always reason from the general interest. Then you can take out all the emotions about where the money comes from, and all you have to do is think: what is in the interests of my people? I come to a question raised by Mr Van Raak on this point. He was also concerned about this element, about the unbridled fraud and corruption. If you add up the business of the past few years, you'll come up with an impressive number. If we do not tackle this, if we do not continue or even intensify the commitment we are making now, then it may well be that there is still a democracy, but that it is at the service of a number of individuals and creates a kind of new business model where what is happening is not in the interest of the government, but in the interest of individuals. So I also share the opinion of Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman, who brought that up, on the Team Combat Undermining that has started. Thank you again for the initiative at the time, including from the Chamber, to set it up. That Team Combat Undermining turned out to be very successful. That always needs a certain lead time before you can also get results. In the end, hundreds of millions have come out of it and been used to recover. But that's what you need to continue, especially in the situation we're in right now. We can only do that. I would like to stress this by excellent cooperation with the well-intentioned people on Saint Martin, who are there; I would also like to mention that. You'd almost think everyone's dirty, but that's not the case. There's just too much corruption in the public administration, but I've also met a lot of people over the last two years who are really working every day to make their country better. I'm not going to call them all by name, because if I did that here, it wouldn't really be a pre for those people, but fortunately they are. This was the block of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u8	I would like to compliment the Secretary of State sincerely. In the fifteen years I've been working on Saint Martin, I've never experienced a ruler telling the truth and also willing to act on it. I would therefore like to congratulate you sincerely on that. I will make a motion together with Mr Bosman for the second term so that we can continue that Team Combat Undermining. Hopefully that will help the Secretary of State further on, but I have a question. He rightly says: we are going to build Saint Martin and we are going to help the people; if we cannot do so with the government, we will do so despite the government. But I see two choices that the people of Saint Martin currently have: a government that does not want to cooperate with the Netherlands or a government that has never wanted to cooperate with the Netherlands. How does the Secretary of State see that in the future? How big does he expect the counter forces to be, for God's sake, from the government? How can we properly build an island if we have to do so despite a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u9	This point was made in the first period, in particular by Mr Bosman, but also by Mr Van Dam and Mr Van Raak: how does the choice of the time when Saint Martin became an independent country within the Kingdom work out in practice? An autonomous country is an autonomous country. You're right to say we're helping. Help can be accepted or refused. The aid was accepted at the time. I will not forget the meeting of the National Council of Ministers in which this was discussed. Of course, I am not allowed to quote from that; it is allowed to do so in 25 years' time. I am not going to do that, but there was not only a thank-you in the direction of the Netherlands at the time. I found that very special, because the country was in ruins and people suffered, but there were still politicians who said: we don't need that money and we have nothing to do with the Netherlands. I can't believe it, but it was. Nevertheless, we have gone to work. Every time I come to St.Maarten, I see people like "I mention an example," but there are many more to call "Christine Hodge" from Dutch Quarter, who is really working every day to give other people a better life. When I speak to these people, I have spoken a great deal about them; they are not, by the way, the people you meet in parliament. You think: that is what we do; those are people who deserve to be a country within the Kingdom where there is a prospect of economic progress. So, yeah, it's always complicated. I'm not gonna tell you from this place what the people in Saint Martin should do. There are elections; there is something to choose. I would just like to ask: choose those parties and those candidates who really want to help the country and who have not proved in recent years that they are actually there for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u10	I very much agree with that. The Secretary of State has my support when he says that we are going to try to build the island as much as possible, despite the government. I think that many parties here in the Chamber, almost all parties, will agree with that. The government and the Secretary of State therefore have that support, but I also have to say that it is also my job as Member of Parliament to do this in terms of relations. This is rubbing with the statute. So I'd like to dedicate something to the Secretary of State. He has made that choice and it is supported, including from the Chamber, but that will also have to have consequences for the future discussion on future relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u11	It's perfectly clear that that's sanding. For me, it is very simple: the framework of the Statute applies. It's an independent country. We can contribute. We're helping law enforcement. A lot of Dutch policemen, prosecutors and people involved in this are doing so every day, together with local people there. That is very successful, but it will have to be further developed. Law enforcement isn't full yet, not yet mature. It will have to continue to be invested in it, as well as in good governance. We can help with that. We are four countries within the Kingdom that have much in common. There are also differences, but we can help each other. That's what I'm in, but I won't accept that Dutch taxpayers' money disappears into the pockets of individuals. I just call that "criminals." We're not gonna let that happen. We have also set up mechanisms for this. At the same time, however, I do not want to cross a border that I should not cross by interfering in internal affairs. I can only say on behalf of the Dutch Government, which is responsible for this and which helps, that we really want to help with the airport, with the waste dump and with the good governance. I have also seen that in recent years there have been people who have accepted this in gratitude. That strengthens me in the idea that we should continue to do so. There may well be more opposition; Mr Van Raak referred to this. Saying that we are retreating is the worst thing we could do in that case, because then we actually leave Saint Martin and the people there to the drivers. Progress and reconstruction will not take place. I'd say that's a really missed opportunity. So we continue to do so, but we do have our standards. We have standards of integrity and good governance. As an example, the anti-money laundering legislation. That's what we've been talking about. This legislation has still not been accepted by Parliament. If it is not accepted, it will immediately lead to the ATMs on St.Maarten simply not doing it anymore, so that people and tourists simply can't pin there anymore. There's big consequences for that. I find it irresponsible that this does not happen and I do not understand it either. I therefore hope that the new Parliament of Saint Martin, in its new composition, will take real responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this interruption in particular to congratulate you warmly on your birthday. But while I'm at the microphone, I might be able to ask the Secretary of State. It's about law enforcement at St. Martin's. That is, I guess I'm gonna let myself speak for myself, my greatest, greatest concern in the Kingdom at the moment, although I also see positive things. Now it is true that plans that have been put in place were actually broken by all the changes in government over the past few years, because the new government came up with its own plans again. So I see a huge problem, just for the management of the organisations involved in law enforcement. I am not talking about authority, it is going to be a very complicated discussion, it is going to be purely about management. We also know the difference between authority and management in the Netherlands on the left and right. Would the Secretary of State support the idea of looking, for example, for a period of five years to see if that management could be a matter for the state? Of course, this must be done in consultation with Saint Martin; this is how the relationships are put together. But it starts with the intention, also on this side of the lake, to build organizations, to provide continuity and to get plans for the prison and the Rijksrecherche in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u13	The issue of law enforcement is one of the most important issues at the moment, especially in Saint Martin. In 2010 it was said that law enforcement is a national task. There was a lot of discussion about that back then. The question was whether it would be wise to let that be a national task at once. But if you want to improve things, there are a lot of opportunities for this, precisely because of the autonomy of a country within the Kingdom, depending on the country itself. You can assume that we, also with Minister De Weever of Justice, have taken steps forward over the last period to ensure that investments have been made around that law enforcement chain, including by Saint Martin himself, by making more funds available in the budget than previously. There is still a very long way to go, but I do see an uphill road and I hope it will continue. Because you can't build the case overnight, all at once. The support provided by the Netherlands also helps with this. I'm with Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u14	From Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u15	From Dam. Yeah, I was gonna call him by his first name, but that's not appropriate here. I agree with Mr Van Dam that this separation between management and authority is extremely important. It is self-evident here in the Netherlands, but it is under pressure because of its small scale. So I'm in favour of looking at all the options. I am also prepared from the Netherlands to help with this, together with the colleagues of JenV and Legal Protection. We are already doing this; this is also discussed in the JVO, the Judicial Quadruple Parties Consultation. But at the end of the day, that offer will have to be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u16	I understand that. I just wanted to know what position the Secretary of State would like to take in, and that's ready to go. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u17	In Papiaments we would say "pabien": congratulations. I'm still practicing a little bit. But seriously now. The people on Sint-Maarten are of course very suspicious of the Netherlands, but they are at least as suspicious of their own cabinet and MPs. It's good to realize that. Eventually, no Saint-Maartenaar will care if no houses are built, if the airport doesn't come off, if you can't get from A to B or if you're faced with all kinds of misery because the waste stream is just not properly regulated. That is why I have a specific question. I support the Secretary of State's appeal. He says: I am about the ordinary people who simply need help and for whom it must be properly arranged. But is he going to give a clue to those crucial parts he mentioned, such as the airport, the waste and the housing, through the National Council of Ministers? I'm just gonna put it very bluntly, but at least we'll have that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yeah, that was pretty short...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u19	Well, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u20	... but that is not bad in itself, because of course there are a lot of methods to prepare the targets, and the clue is actually a kind of ultimum remedium. Of course, we're talking to the government and the governor to see how we can do things better. I would have liked to speak to the States too, but they did not want to receive me. I very much regret that, because that would have been a good time to go into debate and dialogue for a moment. We have also provided people on the ground to help, ordinary Dutch officials, with their feet in the clay. I don't even know if it's all clay, but at least they're standing with the symbolic feet in the clay. I also see that's the way we have to do it. That should not be high; we must offer very practical help and so on. Of course, we'll see how we can do it effectively. It is also a bit like a question of dance, but if it turns out that the process that we have now initiated with the cabinet that is now outgoing is not going to continue, then we need to see how we can do it in a different way. It's not like we stop the best headwind or stop doing things. We have provided resources to make the country resilient, hurricane-resistant, but also economically prosperous for the people, but of course we didn't just do that. Well, there was a strategy for that. We've made a deal about that, too. My line is that the agreements made with Saint Martin and the World Bank must be respected, no matter what cabinet there is on Saint Martin. Those are agreements between countries. If there are parties that are going to say out loud that they don't respect them, we need to see how we can do that. I don't want to anticipate that already. I understand the question, but I also hope that Mrs Kuik will understand that I will not go into that further here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u21	I've heard the Secretary of State correctly and I understand him very well. Nobody's waiting for a political mess. We need to build up now. The moment it doesn't go by itself, you have to look at other steps. It's the Secretary of State for real, that's how I translate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u22	That's a proper summary, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u23	A little bit further on Saint Martin. The Sint-Maarten Cabinet, which is still in office, has agreed to the arrangement as proposed for the improvement of the terminal. So that money's going to be released now. Only it's about a period in which we'll probably have a new cabinet on St.Maarten in a few minutes. How do we ensure that what we have agreed, including the conditions we have set for the money, will actually happen, regardless of which government is going to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u24	That's what we're doing right now in the contacts with the governor. The governor has, of course, given the formal order for formation. This is something different in Sint-Maarten than in the Netherlands. If a cabinet falls there, then in general an interim cabinet is being worked on immediately. Then the outgoing cabinet disappears and an interim cabinet arrives before the elections. The assignment to the new formatter of the interim cabinet includes agreements and commitments regarding previous agreements on the airport. By the way, I have just said that the cabinet of Saint Martin has agreed as a cabinet, but that there were also forces within the cabinet who wanted to go another way, which has also taken so long. Too long, in my opinion, because otherwise we would have arranged this long ago and it would have been put away in contracts. It remains a matter of vigilance. It is not that, at the moment that we have signed up, we think that everything is going well by itself. It's not for nothing that we've brought in the Royal Schiphol Group with expertise. With regard to the screening of the supervisory board and the executive board of the airport, we also want absolute guarantees that there are people there who are clean. They shouldn't be sitting there grabbing in the greenhouse. I think that's important because our money's in it. That is why we can also make these conditions. By the way, this is completely parallel to the interests of the inhabitants of Saint Martin, but that aside. So we will remain vigilant. I cannot predict exactly what will happen now, but our commitment is to secure the commitment of the present Marlin-Romeo cabinet in a new cabinet that is to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u25	Clear. Appointments are important. In my view, there was also an agreement on the salaries of members of the State with regard to the use of liquidity support. Is that gonna be part of the election? Are people actually going to lower themselves in pay? Is there any contact between the Secretary of State and the people of Saint Martin to actually get that settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u26	That has been the subject of parliamentary questions and also of debate, I believe. We have indeed attached to the request for liquidity support for 2019 from Saint Martin as one of the conditions that the salaries of the members of the State should be reduced. You know that State Members of Saint Martin are the best paid parliamentarians of the Kingdom. This has led to the voluntary imposition of a reduction on cabinet members for a certain period of time. Why did we ask? If you have to make so much effort to build a country, you can also ask politicians to set an example. The ministers have acted on this, like one Member of State, as I know. What do you pay tribute for? All the other statesmen disagree and do not want to. That is the situation I have discussed with the Minister of Finance. But that condition of ours is still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u27	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u28	Then we go to Aruba and Curaçao. Those are two different countries, of course, but there are a number of things going on in both countries with regard to finance. As you know, we have a difference of opinion with Aruba because the States of Aruba have decided to amend the country regulation in such a way that supervision is decoupled through the Cft National Council of Ministers. That actually means that there is no external supervision for Aruba anymore. The government has now said that it wants to leave that amendment on the table and not implement it. But that's a risk, because it's gonna happen any minute. We have said that we think it should be removed. Why? Not in the interests of the Netherlands. When you want to acquire resources on the international capital market and look at a country's ratings, one of the questions asked is: what about external supervision? That external surveillance was de facto affected by the amendment tabled by the States of Aruba. This was discussed in the National Council of Ministers. There is now a debate with Aruba. I expect this to be discussed in one of the forthcoming National Councils of Ministers. Dan Curaçao. Curaçao suffers from above average economic recession. There's a sky-high unemployment. I'm very worried about the financial situation in Curaçao. This means that the cabinet, as indicated earlier, has concluded an agreement with Curaçao, combined with a designation. The idea is to create some sort of national recovery plan. We have mentioned the mutual agreement on growth. In doing so, the Curaçao Government is taking a number of measures to put public finances in order. At the same time, private-market investments are being fueled to relaunch the economy and to reverse the situation of poverty and hopelessness in which many Curaçao people are sitting............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So that's what we're doing with the Curaçao government. The political situation in Curaçao is not such that it is automatically and always supported by Parliament. Move it! Move it! Move it! Move it! I can only call on this side, given the great challenges, to take action. We have offered knowledge and expertise. A bilateral progress committee has also been formed in which people from Curaçao and the Netherlands are present. It will examine to what extent the agreements are being followed and how we can help to ensure that this also leads to results. Because every month that no decision is taken on the reforms is another lost month. Mrs. Chicken asked if... Is it a coincidence that Mrs. Chicken, just as I call her, is gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u29	She's out here somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u30	She said she'd already walked half the marathon. I don't know if she's running another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u31	She's out for a walk. She's gonna show up soon, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u32	She asked whether it would be conceivable for Curaçao to come up with a national program Curaçao, similar to the National Programme Rotterdam Zuid. Both Mayor Aboutaleb and Mr Pastors, director of that programme, have spoken about how you could do that in the run-up to their visit to Curaçao. In fact, you could say that the mutual arrangement we have agreed with Curaçao is already a national programme. That's not really true, because Curaçao is, of course, an independent country. In that sense, the comparison is flawed. Rotterdam is a city within the Netherlands and Curaçao is an independent country. But I very much support the idea underlying that programme. If you want to reform, you have to do it for a long time and you also have to commit to it for a long time. I think that the Rotterdam Zuid National Programme has shown that with a coherent approach by different departments and governments for a long time, you can actually achieve demonstrable results. I would like to say that this programme should be the example of how you could do this in Curaçao. The Netherlands wants to help, but the proportions are slightly different from those of Rotterdam versus the government. Then I come to the third block, the situation in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u33	A brief question from Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u34	The Prime Minister of Aruba came up with a strong reproach. He indicated that the Netherlands was fighting the war against... What was it? He indicated that the war against fraud was being waged, I'll say, by the Netherlands. He said, "You guys are so observant of those finances that I can't free up enough people to boost integrity."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u35	I find that very special. I think you're either integrity or you're not. You're either acting on that or you're not. That's not a question of a budget you need for that. Of course, you can make people aware, but it just starts with the fact that political leadership sets a good example and lets the Public Prosecutor do his job when it comes to prosecuting politicians who have been guilty of undermining or corruption. It's very important to assist in that. I honestly do not understand that if we point out to Aruba that their staff costs are too high, they are too high; they are too large a part of the public expenditure that is then used as an argument to say: I have not been able to do anything about integrity. I find that very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u36	Agreed, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u37	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u38	I believe that the President will be very brief, but I say again that these are important debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u39	Of course. All the debates we have here are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u40	But this is the Kingdom. Inside the Kingdom, integrity is at the top. A country like Aruba certainly has its problems. For years, we have been saying: do something about the staffing costs. The countries themselves say that we are doing something about staffing costs. But every time there's no delivery. And then there comes that reproach to the Netherlands. What can we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u41	I might be able to do something about it. Mr Bosman might also, for example, make it possible to discuss it in the IPKO context. It's not like this cabinet in Aruba. It's something that's been going on for years. The intentions are always good, but the results are usually lagging behind. I do not want to be cynical about that, but with me only counts the results and not the intentions. They're supposed to go hand in hand. If anything is against it, you can always say that it is an external factor, but this is just a matter of making choices. This is, of course, more difficult in a relatively small country where everyone knows each other. The moment you start cutting your staff costs, so fired, so reorganisations, that immediately leads to repercussions in politics. Politics in Aruba is extremely polarized. If I follow those debates and the accusations of cabinet members and parliamentarians over and over again, then I really think: what are they doing there? Wouldn't it be better for them to spend that time reforming the country instead of taunting each other? It's not that hard in itself. Aruba is a country with a lot of good prospects. The country could develop very well and positively. I can see some progress, too, but it's too slow. I simply do not think that the movements made by Parliament about cutting ties in financial supervision are a good signal. If you want to take yourself seriously and have good governance, then you need to have people and parties, whether it's a counting room, a CAft or a government council, who put the books on the table and just show what you've done instead of magicing numbers every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u43	Then there is the situation in Venezuela, which has already been discussed on a regular basis. It's serious what's happening in Venezuela. It affects people. People flee to Colombia, people live there under very poor conditions. This naturally affects the islands, especially Aruba and Curaçao. That is also why we have made nearly EUR 24 million available in the spring note to ensure that the countries are ready to deal with the potential flow of refugees and the processing of asylum applications in an orderly manner. This is not the case, as the countries themselves have indicated. These funds are mainly intended to enable countries to invest in those parts of the alien chain so that they comply with international legal obligations. I see an interruption, but I'm not done with the Venezuelan cube yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mrs Diertens, you will have the floor on this item.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u45	By the way, many reports have also been published in the media about thousands of refugees who would reach the islands. I need to nuance that image. There have been migrants and illegal immigrants on the islands for a long time. What's going on now is that some of those illegals can't go back where they could do it independently in the past. They are also part of the informal economy on Aruba, but also on Curaçao. This creates all kinds of displacement effects on their own population, which therefore does not have a job. But it also ensures that, now that the traffic between Venezuela and the islands is much more complicated, there is talk of large numbers of refugees. I really want to nuance that. Refugees and migrants are two different categories. The right to asylum should be reviewed in accordance with the relevant procedures under Article 3 of the ECHR. That doesn't mean there's no problem. If we look at the Coast Guard's figures on the number of persons detained, we can see that over the years it has been relatively stable. Until October this year, 157 people have been arrested, while 238 people have been arrested throughout the year 2018. If you extrapolate that, you'll get out of that number. However, these are such small numbers that I do not want to draw any conclusions about them, but I cannot confirm that there is a large influx, which is sometimes mentioned in the media. What is important, of course, is that we have good contacts with the countries. There have also been missions of Dutch officials, but also talks with international organisations to see how we can ensure that people applying for asylum are properly checked, that an individual review has taken place. That's a country matter, I'm just gonna say here. I sometimes get the impression that it is very easy to say: the Netherlands must help. The Kingdom is bound by treaty, but the responsibility for implementing the provisions of the Treaties really lies with the countries. This means that we can assist, that we want to contribute, that if things are not going well, we can talk to colleagues about it and, if necessary, ask questions about it from the Chamber. But I would like to stress that this is a matter for the countries. Mrs Diertens asked about the opportunities that the European Union has for helping the countries within the Kingdom from its responsibility through the so-called asylum migration and integration fund. In 2016 the Dutch cabinet already made a request to see if it was possible for the countries to use it. At that time the answer was: that is not possible, this arrangement does not apply to the countries of the Kingdom. In the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, I must say. This has led the Netherlands to make an effort to open up this possibility in the next MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Commission 2021 - 2027. On the one hand, we are talking about the Kingdom and, at the same time, they are excluded from it, because at the moment that is not possible. However, Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire can use the so-called B-envelope of the 11th European Development Fund, and this envelope is specifically for unforeseen circumstances. And unforeseen circumstances could be called unforeseen circumstances, as opposed to additional resources made available by the European Commission. But they must be applied for by the countries. That has not yet happened to my knowledge. It is really the responsibility of the countries to apply for these funds, but not through the MFF at the moment, but through the B envelope. If there is a need for this, I have already indicated this once again, then we would be happy to assist the countries in such an application. That was the end of the block of Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u46	I shall begin by giving Mrs Diertens the floor and then Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u47	I also had a question about the refugees who are in a cell on Curaçao. I checked with my colleagues Sjoerd Sjoerdsma and Maarten Groothuizen. They've been there and talked to three women and one young boy. I checked yesterday, and it's very clear they're in a cell. That is totally against asylum and migration policy, isn't it? I'd like to ask what the Secretary of State will do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u48	I have just explained that this is a matter of country, that we as the Kingdom of the Netherlands have committed ourselves to the treaties. If there's any indication that things don't work out the way they're supposed to, I'd be happy to transmit those signals, but I can't go beyond that. In addition to the point I just made, I would like to offer assistance in order to put the procedures in order. We have also provided the means to implement the provisions needed to shape this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u49	I would therefore urge you, on behalf of D66, to carry out further research into this matter and to ask whether we can help with this. Curaçao has already sent a letter asking for help to support refugee policy. I would be very grateful if you could give me another piece of information and take action on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u50	The Netherlands has released almost EUR 24 million in spring notes. This is also due to contacts and my own visits there. In doing so, we recognise the need for support, and we have also given it. With regard to Mrs Diertens' question, I would like to say the following. Curaçao and Aruba are autonomous countries, have their own parliament and their parliamentarians are also free to ask questions about it. They also speak in an IPKO context. I would also like to call for this type of issue, which I do not know how often they are discussed there in Parliament. You address it here now and you can of course do that. Then I can go back and check, I'll come back, ask you a question, and you'll get an answer. Human rights are a general principle. That is why I think it would be important if this issue were taken up in the contacts that the parliamentarians have with each other. Now it seems like some sort of letterbox model: a letter is put in the bus here and I'm going on the road with it. I'm willing to do that, but it's easy to do it from here every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u51	We certainly accept that challenge, but at the moment there is really an acute situation. The Secretary of State knows that, too. The Red Cross is already calling for a crisis situation when it comes to humane care. Even if it's a matter of country, organisations are calling for it and NGOs are calling for it. Aid organisations on the ground and residents and citizens who take initiatives themselves say that there is a really poignant situation when you look at the reception of refugees. The minimum standards, so bed-bath-bread, are not there. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that there really is an urgent and urgent need at the moment and that the government should look at that as well? Is the Secretary of State prepared to give those signals to Curaçao again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u52	On that last point, I am always prepared to do so. This is also always the subject of discussion with the justice ministers of the countries, in the CSR and in bilateral contacts. So that's what we're talking about. I have just said something about the numbers going around, including the Red Cross. I have nuanced it, because I attach great importance to the fact that we are very precise in what we are talking about in this very difficult discussion. If there is a need for help, for requests, then we are dealing with them seriously. This has also led to the release of funds under the Spring Note. Several departments were involved. Anyway, this indicates that we are also trying to coordinate this from the Netherlands. I cannot predict how it is going to develop, but I do not have the impression that suddenly there is an acute emergency, as Mrs Özütok says. The situation is very poignant. That's the one. I have also just indicated that the economic situation in Curaçao itself is appalling, regardless of the crisis in Venezuela, and that some people, no, have too many people affected by it. That is precisely why we are committed to economic growth, reforms and so on. In this way, we also offer an economic perspective to the people there, which is the very best we can do. We are monitoring the situation in Venezuela very closely. Of course, we are also thinking about all kinds of scenarios. I'm not going to talk about that in public. Here too, if the countries experience a problem, those countries to me, must give the Netherlands a very concrete indication of where they need support and additional help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u54	Dan, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u55	Oh, Mrs. Van der Graaf also had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yes, on the same point. Yesterday I mentioned that 43 of the 44 victims of trafficking in human beings came from Venezuela. At that time I also asked whether it would not be valuable to use the knowledge and expertise of the National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking, who we have in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State replied in writing to that question and said that it had nothing to say on its own, but that, if there is a need for that expertise, it could of course be asked for it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to bring this explicitly to the attention of the islands? There really is a big and shining problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u57	In itself, but this is a bit in line with the answer I gave to Mrs Diertens. I have not yet seen that people in the Netherlands do not want to co-think when people or representatives of a government of Curaçao or Aruba have questions, whether they are government people or individuals. I think that the Rotterdam Zuid National Programme, where people have gone to offer their knowledge and skills, is a good example of this. At the same time, I would like to say that I cannot imagine that anyone would not want to share that knowledge, regardless of the formal position. I have answered the question from the fact that the person concerned has no formal position there. This is without prejudice to the fact that when ministers come from the countries and say that they want to talk to someone like that to see what they can learn from it, of course they can. It only begins, I think, with the countries that want help coming up with the question themselves and not Mrs Van Der Graaf, who is now asking the question on behalf of the countries whether this can be done. I want to offer everything and I have said it many times. That's what we want, that's the attitude. But when one experiences a problem there, the order should be that they ask the question and that we assist in it. But in general terms: of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u58	That's very nice. We have a range of possibilities, offers and expertise at home, so I can imagine a more proactive attitude from the Netherlands and an advisory attitude from the Netherlands. I suppose there's just a lot of discussion about the situation there. I am actually asking whether the secretary is prepared to make an active contribution to the fact that we have a lot here and that the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings may be of great value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'm having some trouble with the proactive attitude I should have at this point. I really think it starts with someone who has a problem or a question. Then our natural attitude is very broad, but I'm not gonna call around all day asking if anyone has a problem with this or that. You really can't ask me to do that. It's the land of Curaçao. It really doesn't work that way, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u60	Good. A quick question, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u61	Curaçao is one of the great exporters of gold. That gold is won in Venezuela, under terrible circumstances. Then that gold will be taken illegally to Curaçao. There it is converted into a special economic zone and sold on the world market. We in Europe are trying to isolate bad people in Venezuela, also financially, but in the meantime, through Curaçao, those people are getting stinking rich. How does the Secretary of State rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u62	If Mr Van Raak wishes to have my opinion on this, I strongly reject it. But crime is everywhere, cross-border crime even more. This is the kind of thing we see happening. It is always a matter of priority, both in the Netherlands and in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. There's always too little capacity to be on top of everything. Sometimes something gets intercepted. The same applies to drug trafficking. Now I am going to elaborate very much on other areas, but there is also a lot going on there, while relatively little is being intercepted. It remains absolutely a problem and all this has to do with Venezuela's totally unstable situation. We'll agree on that very quickly. We must try to alleviate that humanitarian crisis. BHOS funds have also gone to shelter in the region, to Colombia, because the situation there is not flourishing either. People in Maduro's regime are also trying to protect their interests and property and to trade illegally, under the government's, I would say, watchful eye. Curaçao has something to do with that, too. Sometimes something is intercepted, but 100% can never guarantee it. I very much regret that, just for once again in my role here and in which Mr Van Raak raises the question, I cannot do much about it because of my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u63	It is policy of the government of Curaçao to have special economic zones. It is the policy of the government of Curaçao not to supervise. So it's also policy to have that gold massively remodelled and sold illegally. That is the policy of the country of Curaçao. I was wondering whether the Secretary of State, in the framework of the Kingdom and international policy towards Venezuela, felt that Curaçao should be called upon to do so or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u64	Following on from Mrs Van der Graaf's question, I think this is a slightly different matter. I am prepared to raise this in the AJVO and to make enquiries. I do not know whether it is really active policy, as Mr Van Raak says. Of course, political choices are being made. If there are negative consequences, this is not always an automatic policy, but the result of a certain choice being made. I do not have the impression at all that Curaçao policy is being made to facilitate this. It is true that it is a negative consequence and that we, as a Kingdom, can find something of it. That is why I say to Mr Van Raak that I will bring this to the attention of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u65	Then I suggest you move on. I think you've gotten to the last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u66	No, I forgot. There's actually another kind of 3b.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u67	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u68	Those are the answers that were included in the questions that were asked about the countries. The dispute settlement. We talked about it for the summer. It was a debate that I will not soon forget, also because of its special composition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u69	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u70	Neither do you. That means something, because you have been through a lot of debates. There were quite a few contradictions. There has also been a fundamental debate on the Statute and how to deal with each other. I must say that I thought it was a very special debate, but also a debate with a nice outcome. That is where the House has the Thyssen and Others amendment. The Council of State adopted by a large majority a new section of the Kingdom Disputes Division. At that time, I indicated to the Chamber as a well-intentioned opinion that it might not be wrong to consult the Council of State on this before the amendment was put to the vote, because this affects the internal organisation of the Council of State and the High Colleges of State. That didn't happen. My well-intentioned advice hasn't been followed. The amendment was put to the vote and adopted by a large majority. Of course, after the amendment was adopted, the Minister of the Interior had contact with the Council of State because she is responsible for the High Colleges of State. The Council of State has now responded to this. The reaction of the Council of State has seen you all. He was pretty critical. The First Chamber, which is about to be referred to it, has asked the Cabinet to respond to the Council of State's response in advance of that examination. At the moment we are preparing the cabinet's position, also for discussion in the National Council of Ministers. In any case, I can assure Mrs Diertens and Mr Van Dam, who have requested it, that if the RMR has taken a position on this matter, we will inform the Upper House. Of course, we will also send a copy of the reaction to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u71	Were you done with this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u72	No, I'm not done, but I'm done with the dispute settlement. They're all loose elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u73	Short, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u74	Specifically on the dispute settlement; an issue that we have all worked very hard on, together with the countries. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State to look not only at what is desirable but also at what is in the common interest of the country and how this dispute settlement has been achieved. I think that's pretty essential, including for history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u75	I can promise that I will look at it in this way and that we will discuss it in the National Council of Ministers. But, of course, I cannot anticipate that debate. Then there is Mr Bosman, who has contributed a great deal to the Statute. He was not very confident that further responsibilities within the Kingdom would lead to something, as expressed in Mr Bosman's and Mr Van Raak's motion. I must honestly say that I have asked the Prime Minister for a response. I also asked him to respond before 1 January. Well, that'll be some kind of process response. It will be like: yes, we are willing to go into the process. I am not so pessimistic about it, although I can see that this is very complicated. Only the debate on dispute settlement and how to deal with disputes already led to disputes. That was interesting in itself. This is a step further. I understand Mr Bosman's wish very well. I also carried out the motion because I think that if something is difficult, you shouldn't get out of the way, but you should have the debate. What will be the substantive response depends on many factors. I do not want to anticipate that now either. The countries themselves must first be given the opportunity to respond to this. Then we can talk about it. What Mr Van Raak asked, namely to anticipate the reaction of the countries with a vision and to put it on the table, does not strike me as wise, even if I understand the wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u76	I would like to finish this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u77	The question, then, is more about the Staff Regulations cases... who is or should be responsible within the Kingdom, leads to regular discussion. This was clear in the contributions of a number of Members. Mr Van Dam has suggested that he has just done so in the event of interruption to do something about law enforcement here or there, precisely because it is a weak element and at the same time should be a cornerstone of good governance. And he asked if we shouldn't make that law enforcement a kingdom issue. That is very easy to ask and I understand the question too, but it would undermine and unilaterally amend a reasonable foundation of the Statute and the political reform of 10-10-10. As a lawyer, Mr Van Dam also knows that unilateral amendments can be made if you are a Member of Parliament, but not if you are bound by a statute. That statute has been in existence for 65 years. Some say it's out of date. Yes, it is old, but the fact that it has been in existence for 65 years also indicates something in itself about the strength of the Statute and how it was drawn up at the time. If you want to change things, you need consent from all countries. Mr Bishop also made that point and at the same time recognised the complexity of the subject. You can't say from the Lower House or the Cabinet: we're gonna do things differently. So I look forward to answering the questions I asked the Prime Minister. I sincerely hope that this will lead to a debate, because once again, you must be able to talk about difficult issues as well. We cannot deny that I have already said enough about the issue of law enforcement today, but it is also conditional on being a stable and independent country at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yes. Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u79	No, sorry. I stopped automatically because I saw Mr. Van Dam walk in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u80	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u81	I can go on for a while. You're chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u82	I also said to Mr Bosman that you will finish this first. Mr Bosman and Mr Van Dam will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr De Graaf asked what would happen to the islands under state law if the Statute were lifted. Preliminary draft: the Statute can only be abolished if all the countries of the Kingdom agree to it in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Staff Regulations. In the hypothetical case that all four countries agree to this abolition, the four countries will then have to decide on their political future. In this unlikely case, it is conceivable that this political future is part of a prior political debate on the abolition of the Statute. Then what that future will be is speculating. That's really far ahead. Of course, there may be several options on the table, ranging from independence of Caribbean countries to integration in the context of the Netherlands. Those options go into that spectrum. Mr De Graaf asked me for a response to his statement that the years of commitment from the Netherlands and the pumping of money in the countries, as he called it, have led, among other things, to, as he called it, non-compliance with agreements, financial maladministration, drug-related misery and so on. Then he said: Aruba does not seem to want to deal with the financial misery. With his question, Mr De Graaf seemed to want to assume that the years of Dutch commitment lie at the root of the problems he presents on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. I can't agree with that. Some of these problems have arisen despite the commitment. That's a sad observation, you might say. That could lead to the conclusion to stop. I have just said that this does not seem to me to be the right way forward. I really believe in the Kingdom, but then there must be responsibility from all sides and we must all shoulder our share of the burden of strengthening the rule of law. We do this as the Netherlands through the budget of Kingdom relations. We'll put money in that too. I know that I am supported by a large majority in the Chamber who also think this is a good idea. Mr Van Dam wanted to know whether the cabinet could promote the independent functioning of the rule of law in the countries. One of my goals is to invest in local ownership and the development of local talent. The four countries will discuss these objectives together in, inter alia, regional co-operation in the CSR and the amended protocol for specialized co-operation recently established will take this form by decentralising the co-operation capacity with the corps rather than remotely. So there really is cooperation in the workplace. My colleague of JenV also invests in the local corps by making training capacity available to the Police Academy. We also want more professionalisation at the Public Prosecutor's Office. As I informed you by letter with my colleague at JenV, the working group is currently examining, on behalf of the four-country Justice Council, the possibilities for increased training capacity for local prosecutors. It is important to bring this culture in, to train people, and at the same time not just to leave it to local people, because because of its small scale, almost all of the things that come to the district attorney's office are matters of acquaintance. Of course, that's not always convenient. These relatively young states of the law are vulnerable. The scarcity of knowledge and expertise continues to demand cooperation and support. That's not a problem either. I think that's exactly the strength within the Kingdom where we can help each other. But then countries will also have to do what is necessary. Then I still have a few wishes and ambitions. It is moving in the right direction, but there has been little investment in law enforcement in recent years, with all the consequences for the prison, the police and their housing, for example. The entire law enforcement chain is undermanned, underhumanized. More resources are being made available for this now, but much more will have to be done in order to be able to carry out this task on its own at the end of the day. In addition, we are currently working hard in the kingdom to draw up a plan to promote the border security of the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, including Curaçao in the direction of Mr Van Raak, so that they meet the minimum standards of border security, also in view of the cross-border nature of drug trafficking, drug smuggling, gold smuggling and so on. For the precise consequences of the drug problem in Curaçao for security in the Netherlands, I would like to refer you to the Minister of JenV and the Secretary of State for Finance. They are about drug crime and border controls in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mr De Graaf is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yeah, or it's gonna take so long. Let's see... Or are you in a hurry, Mr. Chairman, because Mr. Arno Rutte wants to say goodbye? Does he want to leave so badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u86	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u87	Of course, it would be better if Mark Rutte really wanted to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u88	No, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u89	Oh, isn't that it? Okay, so we're not on that schedule. The Secretary of State made a comment about the problems: are they thanks to the Netherlands or despite the Netherlands? We agree: it is, of course, despite the efforts of the Netherlands. That is precisely why the PVV's encouragement to stop once and for all. That was the point. In addition, I have a question on another point. What kind of situation do you end up in after the Statute has been lifted? The Secretary of State is actually referring to maintaining the status quo. Then we'll be in a glass puddle wash situation. This situation exists because the Netherlands as a country is dependent on the other three countries for its right of self-determination in order to be able to leave the Kingdom. That is a very strange situation that needs to be lifted, because we are simply the underlying party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u90	I agree with Mr De Graaf that it is a special situation. I explained this in reply to the questions put by Mr Bosman in particular. The question now is: how do you get out of there, do you want to get out of there, or are there other ways to do that? Implementing the Bosman/Van Raak motion means that we are thinking about whether the Statute is still up to date, whether things should change in it and what else you would like to do. I predict that there will then be a whole palette of wishes, not only in this Chamber, but also in the parliaments of the other countries. The Statute is the structure in which we sit: four countries, one Kingdom and the agreements that apply to it. Are they all equally equal? No, I explained that in the reply. It is precisely because of the old relationship of the Netherlands as a colonialist with a number of colonies that it was never assumed that there could be a kind of similar situation in which the Netherlands could ask that question. There's no provision for that. This means that at the moment that the Netherlands would like to do so, permission will have to be given by the other countries of the Kingdom. Mr De Graaf is right to say that. That is precisely what Mr De Graaf may think of differently than I do or Mr Van Raak, but what we need to talk about. I think we should just do that. We shouldn't run from that. As long as I am responsible for this, that is not so long ago. I believe that Mr Bosman has raised this point for many years before, together with Mr Van Raak. This could also be a discussion. I'll give it back for the IPKO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thanks for the clarity. We can always catch the Secretary of State in person that he is clear and clear, and very clearly in his answers. That's nice; that's nice debate. But I think that with the situation in which we are sitting, that glass-plais wax story, the generation of perhaps my grandchildren will be having the same debate here with the then-present, functioning Secretary of State. That's because we're not doing anything about that situation. We have been asking as PVV ever since we were present in the Lower House to leave the Kingdom or to throw out the other countries or you name it. There are different variants to that. I'll just come back with a motion later. Of course, everyone knows I'm coming up with that again. That's not just a testimonial; that's because we really think it is. The Secretary of State has just confirmed the need to do so. That's why I don't have another question. But thank you for the answer, because that gives me the opportunity to explain this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u92	We're really gonna make it through. I find it amazing: when I started nine years ago, we were actually still bound by Article 73, it was all still decolonization and indeed we had to join as underlying parties to what was said. We have now reached the point where we are no longer covered by Article 73. In fact, like the populations of the Caribbean countries, the Dutch people too, I think that is a very important point, namely the right of self-determination. That's a big deal. That's a really historic statement. Those are the steps we need to take. How we come to that is perhaps another question, but I will come back to Mr Van Raak's question. The Secretary of State says here: the dispute settlement has been very difficult and it is even more difficult to amend the Statute. I disagree. It's all about what you want. That is why I am so sorry that this Secretary of State says: yes, but we are not going to lay down what we think. It's about what we think. What does this government think of the assembly of units? Of course we'll talk about it in the IPKO. We're gonna talk about that statute. But it is essential that everyone pronounces what he or she thinks of the assembly. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u93	Well, I like that, because I totally agree with that. I didn't say I didn't want to put down that vision or never. I have said that I do not want to put it down now, because the question was whether I would like to do so very soon, in anticipation of the reactions of the governments of the various countries. Of course, as the Netherlands, when you have a conversation about it, you have to determine a position in it, just as the other countries should. I fully agree with Mr Bosman. I think one thing is certain: by the time it is clear what we are going to do here, Mr De Graaf's daughters, whom he spoke about the day before yesterday, are out of the house. It won't happen very soon. It's gonna take a while. But it is also something to talk about, because it is a construct that has grown historically, in which a number of countries in the Kingdom have become independent. This has often caused great political commotion in history. We have had 10-10-10, where there has been some kind of reordering, but still within the great framework of that Statute. Of course, there are a lot of problems, I say in the direction of Mr De Graaf. You can do two things. You can quit, that's what Mr. De Graaf says or you can try to solve them. It's possible. Or eventually you can make a combination. I'm not ready to say we're done. I am mostly on track: how can we ensure that it gets better? And I'm not naive. If I had been naive, I would have lost that naivety for the past two years. So that is certainly not the case. But we have to do this carefully. So the answer to Mr Bosman's question is: yes, of course the Netherlands must choose a position in it, because you cannot sit around with other parties without knowing what you are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u94	I welcome that commitment. It's a good thing the Secretary of State isn't too naive. That's how I know him. My question is: do we have to wait for something? Should we wait for someone? Should the other countries first come up with a vision? I think we can just put that down. I'm really looking forward to a date. When is the Secretary of State going to put that down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u95	Now Mr. Bosman is moving a little too fast. I'm also very much in favour of dates and deadlines, but this is something you need to go through carefully. As a result of Mr Bosman and Mr Van Raak's motion, I have said that I am sending a letter to the Prime Minister. The ink is not yet completely dry, so that letter is now on the other side of the ocean, but it still needs to be discussed there. I hope to get a response to that before the end of the year. Then, of course, a process must be agreed on how to do that. That is a government-to-government process, a process of governments among themselves. Parliaments can play a role in this. There's nothing available for how to do that either. You need to agree on how you're gonna set up that process alone. So I'm doing expectations management after all. I understand the impatience and I hope that at least it will be shorter than the years that Mr Bosman has been working on this so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u96	I take up the gauntlet that the Secretary of State just mentioned, namely that not everything had to be played through him and that we, as a parliament, have a certain responsibility in this too. I'm coming up with a motion on that later. I would just like to respond to his statement on the Statute. We've had that for 65 years. You don't just change that. But yes, that statute is, I thought, once meant that point I wanted to make for a moment for our relationship with Indonesia. In terms of size, this is a completely different country from the micro-societys in the West. I think it is important to make that point. That is, for me, the changing point in the discussion as to whether what was ever conceived for Indonesia also works in practice for these countries, after nine years of experience. I would therefore like to know whether the Secretary of State agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u97	I think I agree with Mr Van Dam, but what I wanted to say was that it is an achievement in itself that something that was designed 65 years ago and which, of course, has always been commented on, has worked for so long, while the original composition was a very different one and the context is now a completely different one. I fully agree with Mr Van Dam. That is why I have said that I do not think it is a bad idea to have a discussion about this at all. I merely pointed out how complicated it was to reach agreement on the dispute settlement. Well, that process is still going on. The question is whether that leads to anything. I hope so. The Statute, which lies under it, the mother's document, you might say, has shaped the relationships as they are now. Everyone has the feeling that that doesn't always sit well. This is not only the case in the Netherlands, but also in the countries in the Caribbean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u98	It has not escaped my attention that the discussion on the dispute settlement has gone a bit bumpy. I expect it to be the same about the Statute, but it is important that we have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u99	Very briefly, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u100	No, Mr. Chairman. It is about the Statute, the basis of the Kingdom, so I have another question. In reply to the Secretary of State, it will be said that, among other things, the United Nations will closely monitor how we deal with our former colonies. But now that we are no longer covered by Article 73, we are in decolonization and we are in a new legal system, I do not understand this text. What exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u101	That will always happen, just because of the fact that I only have to point out the things that are currently going on around Saint-Eustatius, that it will be a discussion as long as parties, persons, claim that article. So you should not find out more than that this is going to be a kind of sta-in-the-way, but it will have international attention to that. That means that the moment you step into that, you have to be very conscious of history. No one can brush away the positive and negative aspects of that common history, but what I have answered is simply stated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u102	I am pleased that the Secretary of State Sint-Eustatius raises the issue, because in that reply he says: a new legal order has been created, so it is no longer on the agenda. It's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u103	That is our view, which is true, but it is not shared by everyone. You are asking about the view of the Dutch cabinet. I have just given it, but I cannot deny that this view is being challenged to this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u104	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u105	Yes. Then we come to Caribbean Netherlands. I had announced at the beginning that I had a lot of concerns. Now it's getting a little more optimistic as far as I'm concerned, because I really see that good things are happening there. I would also like to include this in the cabinet response to the IBO report and the information provided by the Council of State on the way in which coordination around the Caribbean Netherlands is organised, which has already been discussed a great deal in the debates. In general, I believe that public bodies are moving in the right direction and that cooperation with the Empire is going well. That does not mean that there are no more problems, but there is trust and there is cooperation between them and then literally together on both sides of the ocean to achieve common goals, but we still have a long way to go. This is also apparent from the reports that have been published. We are not going to change that from one day to the next, but I think it is important that this positive movement be used. It is very nice to see that the deputy of Bonaire, Mr Tjin Asjoe, is also present. He also belongs to the category of directors with whom it is working well, I would like to say here. That's good, because I was just talking about counter-forces out there. That's very annoying, especially if you're in the public interest, but if you have the notion that you're both in the public interest, then you're much better off getting to business. But of course it remains Caribbean Netherlands. The natural reflex from The Hague, I am also responsible for cross-border cooperation, and then on the other hand: towards the European continent, the European continent is not always automatic towards the regions that are a little further away from The Hague. I see that and feel responsible for constantly bringing that to the attention of the public. It's going the right way, too. I also see that in the towers that Mr Van Raak always talks about and for which I am responsible, at least for the buildings, there is a different view and that involvement is turned into positive action. In fact, I am also saying to all the colleagues in the cabinet and the officials involved: thank you for your commitment. I have said it before: the islands are not equal. They're just not equal. They're far apart, downwind and upwind. But they're equal. That is not the same, also presupposes customization. This presupposes that we create separate structures with the islands, but from the idea that it is the BES. Mr Bosman always says that the BES does not exist, but is a legal construct. That's true and so we have to look at customization. We have taken a number of measures, particularly with regard to poverty. Poverty was one of the things I was confronted with when I arrived. People said: if you want to regain the trust of the people on the islands, then something must be done to tackle poverty. I am also very pleased that Mr Van Ark of Social Affairs and Employment has taken up that glove and taken a lot of steps together with me. Again, we are not yet at the end of the road, but we have taken a number of steps to tackle poverty. We have taken a number of measures to this end. The Chamber has also been informed about this and we have had several debates on it. A report has been published by the National Ombudsman. Mr Van Dam, Mrs Diertens and Mrs Kuik referred to this, and I also think Mrs Özütok. That report does not make you happy, because there are still poignant situations in which older people are in a position where they can hardly earn any extra income and have trouble making ends meet. Those situations need to be addressed. I say to you, and we will continue to do so, that I will see how we can improve that position together with the colleagues from VWS and with Mr Van Ark. We will have an annual discussion with the Chamber, which is encouraging us on this point, on the basis of evaluations to see how this develops. I would like to make the point about the income side and the cost side, because those are two greats interacting with each other. I understand very well, and I also defend that if you only do things on the revenue side, you'll be pulling all kinds of things out of your system. So we also have to do business on the cost side. I have seen and noticed in the questions put by the Members of the Chamber, which are still subject to some procedures, that there is a great deal of attention to that. I can only endorse that. This means that the coordinating role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as other departments, from their departmental responsibility, will have to work and continue to do so in the future, and will sometimes even have to intensify, in order to solve the problems we have now seen. It is too easy to say: we do something on this income side and then the problem is solved. It's often multi-problems that play. But you also don't want to disrupt the local small-scale economy. So you have to be careful what measures you take to ensure that things don't go wrong. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs just got back from Bonaire. She was there at the Central Dialogue. It's just the two of us. Actually, it's just the two of us doing a little Caribbean Holland. There's more involved, but she's very active in picking up that case. Mrs Kuik asked if we could also set up a form of debt relief on the islands. That is, of course, an island task. Let me put that in front of you. I attach great importance to subsidiarity and to policy freedom. That is what the islands themselves often ask for. Mr Van Raak spoke of Saba. That's one of those examples. But that does not mean that we can use the experience and knowledge we have gained here to operationalise things there. I'm gonna have to give you a profit warning. If, for example, you look at what we have agreed with Bonaire on the administrative agreements, I will come back to that in a moment..................................................................................................................................................................... So it's not a matter of: we're filing a motion or I'm calling something and tomorrow it's settled. There is sometimes limited capacity on the islands and sometimes also limited quality or knowledge and skill. We have to do customization for that. I want to prevent us from conducting the islands here from The Hague. That's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. I see the input of the Chamber on this issue as support and commitment, and above all not as an appeal to take over. As regards debt relief, there have recently been social workers from the islands in the European Netherlands to follow training courses. The Ministry of SZW also offers support for the organisation in Bonaire. A working conference was organised on the subject. In short, the lines are running. But this could definitely be even better than what's going on right now. That was the general introduction and I'm about to deal with some specific issues about the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u106	What I always appreciate about this Secretary of State is his firm approach, but I really miss it when it comes to poverty among the elderly. We hear those stories. It is not just the Ombudsman's report. This keeps coming back: the elderly are in bitter poverty there. It is only a handful of elderly people, it is not true for all these elderly people, so I would argue that the Secretary of State should not only offer us a policy perspective here, but that, given this situation, the elderly should really do something. What does the Secretary of State intend to do? Because we have all the data. We know the price increase, we know the purchasing power figures, we know the income side. So, Secretary of State, do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u107	How am I gonna answer this? I'll explain. Mrs Özütok kind of triggers me, because she says: you are always so clear, but here you are not so clear. This isn't my wallet, and that's why I'm a little less clear. That is not because I do not want to be that, but because it is Mr Van Ark's portfolio, which is, by the way, extremely involved in this issue. Let me say that again: I shall come back to that in a moment. It doesn't suit me to copy that in detail here. We do that with multiple rulers. I see her support as very positive. But that is why I cannot personally commit myself to this in other policy areas. At the same time, you must continue to make this point, including in the SZW budget, because then you yourself will hear from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs what she has already done and what she is going to do. I do not want to give the impression that we only want to talk in political language, because I would almost say: stop writing reports, let us move on to action. We just made good deals. We said what we're gonna do, we're gonna monitor it, we're gonna adjust it if we need to. These kind of reports only help to clarify that point. If you are talking about insufficient action, it is because this is also outside the scope of my state secretariat's responsibility. So that's what we do together. Again, there is no need to doubt the commitment of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u108	Perhaps a supplementary question after all. On the one hand, there is a commitment on the one hand. I understand that the Secretary of State is not directly responsible for the income side, but can he inform us about developments in this area? 'Cause we're really worried about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u109	I will do so together with the colleague from Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u110	I am pleased that the Secretary of State also sees the need for poverty and brings it to the attention of the SZW Secretary of State. I know her motivation and drive at this point. This leads me to questions that I asked in my first term. In the eyes of the Secretary of State, do we have enough data, information, to properly measure the effects of the policies we are taking here, and to increase benefits and reduce the cost of living? Do we have sufficient data in the eyes of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u111	I think the answer to that question should be no. Maybe enough, but not... You always want information to send. It doesn't take for granted. I have heard your contribution very well in the first term, and you are in favour of doing more about it. I think that's possible, and I support that, too. I must honestly say that this is also a little outside of my policy area. I need to make the mailbox a little wider now and then. But I think it's an interesting option, because in the end, especially in a micro-economy, you want to steer it on the basis of facts. And if those data are reliable and at the level of the CBS data as we know it, then of course you can steer. At the same time, the small scale also has advantages, because if you ask the driver of the public body where the problems are, he or she will be able to point out where they are. My answer to the question of whether data is important and whether we have enough: we could always have more, and I think we should also go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u112	Following on from my question on childcare. We now have the program BES(t) 4 kids. That just started. In my first term I also asked for dates, which could possibly be taken with a very small administrative adjustment by the CBS. I didn't find that in the answer. The second question I have on that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr President, I was not finished with this block at all. So I'll come back to some of those things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u114	Oh, okay. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u115	So it is true that that was not in my written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u116	Do you want me to go back to my place first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u117	Well, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u118	I'm gonna finish off the islands. A number of separate questions have been asked about this, including the questions put by Mrs Diertens. First Saint-Eustatius. I have recently sent a letter to the Chamber about this, announcing that the elections of the island council will take place on 21 October next year. In doing so, we want to ensure that what has now been set in motion is continued and sustained, while at the same time allowing democracy to return. We indicated earlier that we do not want it to last longer than necessary. On the other hand, we did not intervene to do business as usual again very soon afterwards, because there was something going on there; I explained this in detail in that letter. When I was there on 23 September, I informed the people of my intention to organise these elections. There were a lot of people in that town hall. I noticed that there was a great deal of support for the return of democracy, some might have hoped that it would happen at all, but many people understood it, but of course there were mainly concerns about the progress and the speed of progress, and rightly so. Let me be very clear about this: I had hoped for it myself and thought it could be faster. We've run into some setbacks, but we're moving on. At the end of the journey we will also ensure that it has been realized, because a lot had to be done, but I also think it is important that democracy can return and that people feel represented again by their own representatives. I've been to St. Eustatius many times. Colleagues have also been there. And you just see the progress. You can see that all kinds of things are happening, including in the private sector, which makes the island really better if we go back to the situation as it was, with an island council and a college. I'll get to Bonaire. About Bonaire, I was a little more critical a year ago. Then we were on the eve of the board agreement. That was not an easy thing to do either, but we reached that agreement with the support of a very large majority in the island council. It's rolling out now. From this point on, I want to thank the board, but also those involved in that whole project, the programme manager and all other people, for their commitment. I really think that's where good things happen. The results often come off with some kind of delay, as with the TBO. You always see that. But that's really going to happen; I'm really convinced of that. That's because we agreed on priorities. A new college has been formed. This has also been added to a lecture programme, with a number of accents. This whole thing is going to lead the Bonaire people to notice that they are doing better. This also means that the suggestion made by Mr De Graaf to intervene on Bonaire as far as I am concerned is not at all relevant. So Mr Tjin Asjoe can go home; we are not going to intervene on Bonaire. Why not? Because that's where the good stuff happens. I never said that was my intention. I have been concerned about the situation and about the fact that too little has happened, but a lot is happening now. Many are involved. Progress has been made in the area of financial management. The organization is now being reorganized, and new people are being added to it. This is going to produce results; I am really convinced of that. Dan Saba. That's how we closed down the Saba Package. The Saba Package is a tailor-made arrangement with the island of Saba. You can see it: when I say "Saba," Mr Van Raak stands straight up. I've always said more for more, less for less. For years, we have mentioned Saba as a positive example. I am glad that several examples are now emerging and that Saba is no longer alone in that category, but they are still doing well. It is good to see that financial management is in order. There have been several successive years with realistic budgets and realised surpluses, and an approved audit report for five years in a row. However, attention should be paid to the large share of incidental resources in Saba's total budget. That's still a point. I will say a few words about this in the cabinet response to the Council of State report. This puts a great deal of administrative pressure on the public sector and makes it difficult to draw up a sound multiannual budget. But in that Saba Package this subject was also mentioned. We're gonna see how we can fix this. Then I come to the cabinet response to the report by the Council of State and the ibo, which actually looks at the whole coordination and cooperation between the islands of the Caribbean Netherlands, The Hague and the departments themselves and how we can improve them. It makes perfect sense for you to evaluate that nine years after that. The Chamber has asked for this with all kinds of motions: strengthen this coordination function, avoid all kinds of counters, join forces and make sure that the delays in the past are made up. Mr Bishop asked me how, in my view, this coordinating role will have taken shape in five years' time. I have taken that more as a personal question than a political question. It's not about that role in itself or my position in it. The chance that I will be there in five years' time in person is of course not so great, although I wouldn't mind at all. I don't think that's the point. It's all about what we can do for the people there. It's not about the people here, it's about the people there. That coordination is a means of ensuring that we have more effect with the same or perhaps, if necessary, more resources. I therefore really hope that in five years' time it will be noticeable and visible, so that people will be able to see, when comparing a photograph not from now, but from a year ago, with a photograph in five years' time, that at least progress has been made in all areas in terms of the problems they have been facing. So it's all solved? I do not think that is realistic, but it is important that there is an ascending line, that people also get the feeling that they really belong to it, even though they are at a great distance, that we make the good things from the Dutch system available for free and simply implement them and that we leave the things you are talking about bureaucracy and so on as much as possible. That would be a bit of my personal wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u119	I'll see how much longer you think you need, because I see MPs standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u120	Of course, I don't know how many more interruptions are coming, but I think I'm gonna need another minute or ten or fifteen minutes, excluding interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u121	Then I suggest the Secretary of State finish his story. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Raak and Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u122	In short, I would like to continue the practical cooperation that we have put in place with tailor-made island arrangements, which will eventually apply to Saint-Eustatius too, and remain in close contact with the directors, who must of course be able to exercise that responsibility in full within their policy area. I am also confident that this will happen in a good way. I have already indicated that we are simply going to do this in The Hague, just by having the discussion and the reports on the table and by continuing to name the problem. I would say: no more reports, because I have enough reports showing which way to go. There is actually no dispute about which way to go either, because we are all looking in the same direction. Legislation will be needed to adapt this. It will of course come back through the Chamber. In everything we do in the Netherlands, the European Netherlands, with regard to generic measures, such as infrastructure, income and purchasing power, we must not forget the people of the Caribbean Netherlands. We just have to let them be part of that system. That is my wish, and that is also my ambition. Mr Bosman felt that free payments did not keep pace with the island's expenditure and responsibilities. I can agree with him. In the cabinet's response, the government indicated that, together with public bodies, we want to clarify and re-evaluate the current division of tasks between public bodies and the Empire. Then the principle applies: if you get a job, that includes the budget. If you don't have that job or if you think it needs to be invested somewhere else, then that budget isn't part of it. I have already indicated that Saba's point is really a point of attention in that free space. Mrs Diertens proposed a thorough evaluation next year, exactly 10 years after 10-10-10. The Council of State has recommended that every five years an evaluation committee should also see what happens to the information we have provided and how that goes. I am not against evaluations, not at all, because I believe in them very strongly. But I'd like to converge them. I would not want to have an evaluation every year on this point or on that point. I would actually like to stick to the line proposed by the Council of State, namely to do so once every five years. Of course, other agreements have been made with SZW on the minimum standard of living. Then you can do it more often. But in width you should not evaluate too quickly, because then you may hardly see the differences. Moreover, my conviction is that we will continue to talk about it, even here in debates, and that this is also excellent. But we should also give it the opportunity to make changes that you make also have an effect. About your request to do so next year because of the historic moment, I would say very specifically that I would actually find that a little strange, compared to the fact that we already have those evaluations. We can do just fine with that, too. It is now time to turn what has been concluded into action. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van der Graaf asked for attention to be paid to children's rights. In the letter of 2 October, I indicated that the cabinet had a clear objective of improving the standard of living for all inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands. That doesn't apply in the least place to children. Together with the ministries of SWZ, VWS, OCW and JenV, we have already taken good steps in this regard, which we will also continue. UNICEF's recommendations point to how we can continue to work on this. From my coordinating role for the Caribbean Netherlands, I will continue to follow this closely. This is also a large part of my colleague's portfolio from VWS. Of course, good examples from the Netherlands are taken into account in policy-making, as Mrs Kuik suggested. We'll take over the good and keep the bad here. As I indicated in the written reply, it is important that we measure the impact of new policies. In this way, more structured work can be done to improve children's rights in the Caribbean Netherlands. That was also immediately an answer to Mrs Van der Graaf's question about measuring is knowing. In fact, you have to have the data that can help with that. UNICEF's new programme for 2019-2021, funded from my budget, will also explicitly focus on data collection and monitoring for children's rights. That is a commitment towards Mrs Van der Graaf. As I indicated in the written answer to the questions put by Mrs Özütok and Mrs Diertens, UNICEF will, among other things, help the CBS to develop and extend the youth monitor. Hopefully this will lead to better information. In the progress report benchmark for security of existence Caribbean Netherlands, the SZW Secretary of State indicated that he would discuss with the public bodies the further implementation of the objective to reduce the number of children in the Caribbean Netherlands who grow up in poverty. UNICEF's recommendation to increase the visibility of children growing up in poverty will be included. Finally, Mr President. In his speech during the debate in the first term, Mr Van Raak was in some sort of excitement. He also had a book with him. I don't know if you saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u123	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u124	I also have that book; it is about Saint Eustatius. But that's why he forgot to ask me a question. He whispered that to me afterwards, and since I am in favour of much transparency, I confess it here. I would like to answer Mr Van Raak's question. It was about the commemoration of 250 years First Salute on Saint-Eustatius, which would then take place in 2016. He has tabled a motion calling me to speak with the United States to see if we could celebrate this historic moment together 250 years later. Mr Bosman supported that later. A few months ago, a discussion took place between the Deputy Chief of Mission of the US Embassy here in the Netherlands and officials of Foreign Affairs and of Kingdom Relations. In that conversation, they brainstormed about what could be done. This is linked back to Washington, to see which ideas are feasible and for which ideas are supported on both sides of the ocean. A follow-up meeting is scheduled for this year's turn of the year. I cannot anticipate what comes out of it and what we hear back, but I am sure that we can continue the exchange of views on this matter. I think that I have also responded to the written request made earlier by Mr Bosman and Mr Van Raak to inform the Chamber of the US Government of its support for a joint celebration. So I would like to discuss this with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u125	Did you answer all the questions with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u126	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u127	A brief question from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u128	For the latter, the commemoration of the First Salute in 2026, I sincerely congratulate the Secretary of State. But we have another problem. For five years now, all the political groups in this Chamber have been asking for Saba to be allowed to arrange his own work permits. Five years of pushing, pulling, dragging and punching, and what's the result? In three ministries, I don't know how many officials are trying to re-adjust the Dutch rules for Saba. But we never asked! We just asked: let Saba do his own work permits. Why doesn't that just happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u129	The Secretary of State. I have just heard that this has also been discussed in writing, but I think the Secretary of State can answer that better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yes, this was an interruption following a written response. Look, Mr Van Raak is right in asking the Chamber to relax or abolish those rules. I think we differ a little, because the goal we should achieve is that it will become more workable for Saba to get those work permits issued more quickly. In itself, it is not so much a question of whether they should be able to do it themselves or not. It was in his mind that everything through the rules of the Netherlands led to delays and long lead times, in short bureaucracy. I agree with Mr Van Raak on this. This indeed affects several departments and it may be a small subject, but it is now becoming a major issue. I believe that the measures we have now agreed with Saba may not fully meet Mr Van Raak's wishes, but will ensure that practical solutions are found to speed up the delivery of work permits so that they can respond to the wishes that exist. It hinders the economy if you have to wait a long time and you have certain needs. I know that Mr Van Raak is not satisfied with this, but this is my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u131	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u132	If you're going to work on Saba, you can't go to the Netherlands. You can't go from The Bottom to Amsterdam without having to cross different borders. So it's nonsense that you have Dutch rules for a work permit on Saba. That's why the Chamber said let Saba do it. I'm giving the Secretary of State and the entire government one more chance. Set it up for Christmas. Otherwise, and I'm really gonna do that, Mr President, I'm gonna invite the whole government here, all the ministers and the Prime Minister. I'm not even ruling out the fact that I'm getting support for that from the Chamber. Then we're all gonna sit here and have a debate until deep into the night, until the work permits on Saba are settled. Saba needs to get his own work permits and no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u133	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u134	We had the General Reviews not so long ago. That's when we were all sitting here. Anyway, I understand the point and I do understand the frustration, but I can't solve that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u135	I would just like to talk about the basic childcare allowance, because the written reply states that a contribution must be made. While I can say, also from experience, that some families are so poor that even paying an amount like €0.50 is not feasible. For those really poor families, I would like to see the solution of free childcare. I know that Mrs Tamara of Ark is very kind. She's promised a basic fee before. I am curious about the position on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u136	This question has indeed been answered in writing, of course with the agreement of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. Again, it is a question that really falls under the ministerial responsibility of the SZW Secretary of State. If I wanted to answer it, benevolent or not, I still can't do it. I would therefore ask that this question be put to my colleague on occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u137	I'll be sure to. Then I have another question about the libraries that have not been answered. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this could possibly be implemented in Caribbean Netherlands in conjunction with his approach to digital inclusion? My motion on personal development through the central library would fit in very well with that. Does the Secretary of State see anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u138	I cannot answer this like the previous question, because this is about another budget chapter, but one for which I am responsible. The question is whether I am prepared to make available funds currently in the Home Affairs budget for digital inclusion, helping older people. I want to take that very seriously because I think it's important. I think I should set an example myself. If we make funds available to the European Netherlands, we must also look at the Caribbean Netherlands. I do believe that this is primarily a subject for the colleague of OCW. But it would be too easy just to say that, because I feel responsible for this myself. So I want to take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u139	Then Mr Bishop. Or do you have another question, Mrs. Diertens? One question hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u140	Perhaps the Secretary of State also says "go to IenW" about this, but this question is about the bike paths on Bonaire. They are of course part of the Blue Destination plan for tourism development. So it has to do with all kinds of other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u141	I would like to say the following about bicycle paths. Look, we do not talk in the Chamber about the bike path of the municipalities of Alphen-Chaam or Tilburg. I really think they're the responsibility of the public body. The question of whether there is sufficient resources and whether it fits within the priorities, in the case of Bonaire, I really find something that could be part of the governance agreement and what could be discussed there. I cannot judge whether it is necessary and whether it fits within the priorities set by the board itself and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u142	I understand that, but we are now working on the roads within the administrative agreement. I'd be so sorry if they were just made too narrow, when it's one investment. Maybe that's my entrepreneurial attitude, but maybe it can be pointed out after all, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u143	You also have a second term. Maybe you'll do something with that. I'm going to see Mr Bishop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u144	Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions. What the coordinating role looks like in five years' time is indeed a bit of a question of the Secretary of State's personal vision. At the same time, of course, this transcends the importance of the Secretary of State's personal vision. I wholeheartedly agree with the ambitions and intentions expressed by the Secretary of State. What steps does the Secretary of State take to be in five years' time where we think he should be? What action should then be taken? Does the Secretary of State have a playbook with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u145	For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to the cabinet response to the information given by the Council of State, in which we initiated this process. This is still the subject of discussion in the Chamber with all kinds of legislative amendments. We're also talking to the public bodies about this. Of course, they have an important role to play in reflecting on that. This will gradually lead to a number of measures to help strengthen coordination. That is not an end in itself, but a means of making things noticeably better for the people there. There will of course be a path underneath. That's what we're gonna work out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u146	My follow-up question is whether the Secretary of State sees this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u147	You're not allowed in the room at all. Sorry. Mr. Photographer, you can't be in the room. I thought for a second: a new MP! But he's a photographer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u148	That is a serious disturbance of the order. Thank you for the vigorous intervention, Mr President. Mr Van Raak expressed the ambition to take a strong step before Christmas in the matter of the work permit in Saba, involving all those ministries. Does the Secretary of State see it as possible as an opportunity or a challenge to allow this to be a kind of litmus test for the coordination of new styles?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u149	In a general sense, I'm really encouraged to do that. We may differ on this point. Contrary to Mr Van Raak's first-term picture, steps are really being taken. Only they do not follow the path Mr Van Raak wants. He actually says: let them do it all alone, the Netherlands doesn't have to interfere at all. We disagree on that. We have now agreed on a procedure with Saba which means that it can all be done much faster. I am appealing to everything, and my colleagues, of course, are. I have that ambition absolutely, but not exactly in the way of Mr Bishop's question, which repeats what Mr Van Raak said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u150	Then I really go to questions that haven't been answered, because we have to suspend. We have a full schedule. There has been a great deal of exchange on this budget, and I was going to do the second term right after this. No, we're not. We're gonna suspend first. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u151	I have two questions I want to go on with. The word 'children's rights' or 'children' is no longer in the budget. That is because the amendments of the Segers amendment with the Labour Party are exhausted. The Secretary of State says he wants to keep following it. How? Yesterday I asked how the projects that have been launched with these funds will continue? How does the funding for this happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u152	I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u153	Fine. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u154	That's good. Then I have a second question. Child abuse is a criminal offence. It's in the Code of Criminal Law. It's also criminalized in the BES islands. All countries in the Kingdom also have a provision in the Civil Code which criminalizes child abuse, violence against children. Is the Secretary of State prepared to work together with his colleague for Justice and Security on a bill to include this in the Civil Code for the BES islands as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u155	I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-8.u156	Then we'll come back to that. This was the government's first term. I actually want to make the proposal, no, I just decide to suspend the sitting.
