ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 34940, the legislative proposal Amendment of the Law on the rental allowance due to the expiry of the provision that the own contribution in the rental payment is indexed with the percentage of net assistance development if that percentage is lower than the percentage of rental price development and the maximum income limits from which no rent payment is granted, i.e. the Law on adjustment indexation own contribution rent payment and the expiry of the maximum income limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The length of the official title of this law, as just read out, actually says enough. Again, the amendment to the Law on the rental allowance in relation to the expiry of the provision that the own contribution to the rental allowance is indexed with the percentage of the net assistance development if that percentage is lower than the percentage of the rent increase and the maximum income limits from which no rental allowance is granted, i.e. the Law on adjustment indexation own contribution rent allowance and the expiry of the maximum income limits. This long title shows that two proposals have been put together by the Minister in this legislative proposal, which could have been dealt with separately in relation to the PVV. The first proposal, the proposal to remove the maximum income limits, can certainly support the PVV. This prevents tenants who, due to a small increase in income, are just above that maximum income limit from losing their full rent payment, even if it is €1 too much. It cannot be the intention that tenants should actually decline due to an increase in their income. That is why this amendment, also supported by the House Union and Aedes, is a good proposal. As far as the PVV is concerned, it is different when it comes to deleting the possibility clause. For those who do not have an impact on the removal of the maximum income limits, the deletion of the kan provision would be a burden increase. If the development of assistance is lagging behind the development of the rent, this can be offset by a lower increase in the own contribution to the rent payment. With the deletion of the possibility clause, only the average rent increase will be taken into account in future, thus increasing the own contribution. The PVV opts for our tenants and therefore not for higher but just for lower rents. As a result, the PVV certainly cannot support the deletion of the possibility clause. It remains unclear how big the effects can be on our tenants' wallet, especially given the mega-investments in sustainability that this Rutte cabinet wants to push through in order to achieve its climateutopia. In the further reply, the Minister stated: "It is not exactly foreseeable what the effects on the average regular rent increase will be due to investments by housing corporations in new buildings and major renovations." Because of the Social Rental Agreement, the Minister considers that a possible transfer of higher investments to this average rent increase is limited. Also a limited average rent increase is still a rent increase. Can the Minister specify how limited that increase will be? Is this as limited as the lies about the increase in the energy bill, with which this Rutte cabinet has saddled our citizens? Can the Minister also comment on any effects on the average rental price due to increasing scarcity of rentals, in particular caused by mass immigration? In the period 2014-2017 53,831 social rental homes were given away to status holders. This is virtually the same as the number of social rentals that were added and purchased in the period 2014-2016. That's 52,100. What does this scarcity mean for our Dutch tenants? Mr. Chairman. Due to the deletion of the possibility clause and thus the opening of the door to rent increases, the PVV cannot support this proposal. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The present bill concerns two amendments to the Law on the rental fee, each with a different effect on the wallet of groups of tenants. As has already been said, my group also regrets that we cannot weigh both proposals separately. According to the Minister in the reply and earlier in the House of Representatives, the changes are each limited in themselves, making it more efficient to make a single legislative proposal. We will not ask again about the familiar road, but we note that it is a pity that the cabinet makes that choice. For people with rent payments, the efficiency of the legislative process is less than what they have left at the end of the month to do groceries. Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance? But now that the cabinet makes this choice for two proposals in one legislative amendment, we do not escape to weigh what we take the hardest. In practical terms, does the abolition of the maximum income limits outweigh the deletion of the possibility clause in the indexation of the own contribution? Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to comment on the expiry of the maximum income limits. In fact, this is about reducing the rent payment in a longer income band rather than using a hard limit. The effect of the hard limit is now that those who go over €1 in income lose their full rent supplement. The transition to a band with a gradual phasing-out means that people who are now able to lose their rent allowance in one go after a raise or a job can face a gradual reduction in the new situation. That's a good thing. It prevents you, for example, from finding a job out of welfare and unemployment and then going net backwards. We can therefore support this part of the bill. The pain of the fraction of GroenLinks but also, more importantly, with tenants, it is in the deletion of the can-determine. In determining the annual increase in the rent's own contribution, the most favourable indexation for the tenant is chosen: either the percentage of net assistance development or the growth of rental price development. With this bill, the cabinet only wants to look at the evolution of rents. It mentions two arguments: it makes the law simpler and it makes more sense to look at rental developments than at the development of assistance. Because, according to the Minister, we look at the income picture once a year in full with the total purchasing power figures in the budget. I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. This part of the proposed legislative amendment affects the people with the lowest incomes in the Netherlands. Does the Minister consider that appropriate? According to the cabinet, it's about change. But for those who have to live off a minimum benefit, there is no change. That is what my group has argued before when it comes to removing the very small pensions of a few euros. And it's not that kind of change in this case. Without a can-determine, people with a low income measured from 2006 would now pay €19 more their own contribution. From 2021 onwards, we are now moving towards the future with the deletion of the possibility clause over €2. Over a period of about fifteen years, the effect is therefore more than €20 structurally per month based on historical data. That is not a change for people with a minimum income, but a bag of fresh fruit and vegetables from the market every month. Mr. Chairman. How do we weigh the plus versus the minus in this bill? We weigh most heavily the effects on the lowest incomes. For low-income people, the euros count the most. The government does not want to look at purchasing power in this bill, because there is another time for that. We'll do it. For people with benefits, for example, the higher VAT, the more expensive health insurance, the increase in cable and internet charges and the higher energy bill add up considerably. That is the group which is making the least progress, 0.8%, in the government's income figures. The new purchasing power plates of the CPB, which we saw this morning through the media, show that those figures are still correct. My group is not reassured that this is a good way for the lowest incomes. Similarly, for households, the negative impact of the determination is greater than the positive impact of the other measure. The deletion of the possibility clause already in 2022 has an impact of 138 million less on the budget of the rental payment. Removing the hard income line costs 70 million. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, there is budgetary room to compensate the tenants who will be affected. How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. If we take stock now, it'll be negative. We ask the Minister to look again at our consideration and look forward to her reflection on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are discussing now regulates two changes to the system of rent payments that are unrelated and therefore, in the opinion of my group, should have been presented separately to us. First of all, the hard maximum income limits to qualify for rent payment are removed and replaced by a gradual phasing-out for multi-person households with an annual income of between €30,000 and €36,000. Is it still the case, for example, that if you lose €100 in rent payment in a slap, due to a higher step in your salary scale and an increase in income of €30 per month, the current bill will prevent this error by gradually reducing the rent payment. The SP believes that this is a good proposal. Secondly, it is proposed that the own contribution to the rent minus the rent allowance should be indexed differently. The legal text speaks of the own contribution to the rent payment, but I do not think that is correct. It concerns the own contribution to the rent, so the rent after deduction of the rent surcharge. The cabinet proposes not to index its own contribution to the rent anymore with the lowest percentage of either the development of the net assistance or the average increase in the rent in the social sector, but to assume only the latter: the average rent increase. My group has serious reservations about this. The own contribution to the rent is likely to increase further due to the new standard for annual indexation. If this standard had been applied in the past, the rent would have increased by €19 per month in the period from 2006 to 2016, after deduction of the rent surcharge. Last year, this year and probably next year there is no difference, but the years after that the new method of indexing is expected to give the tenant a few euros per month to his disadvantage. The Minister says in the reply that there is nothing to say about it in the long term. I disagree. This measure came into the government agreement because it would provide structural savings of EUR 138 million per year on the rent payment. This costs recipients of rent surcharge, all low-income people, in the long run about €60 per year. I ask the Minister whether she can confirm these figures and how she assesses this result of the legislative proposal. The SP Group considers this lower development of the rent payment to be a bad thing, all the more so because the rent payment for many people is already barely or not sufficient. Originally, the rent allowance, which at the time was called a clearer term "individual rent subsidy," intended to limit the net rent to a certain percentage of the income, the so-called standard rent. In the meantime, if you receive a rent supplement, you pay €17 per month more for your own contribution to the rent than the standard rent. Moreover, more and more rental homes disappear from the cheapest segment, under the €420 per month, and go to the segment to roughly €600. In this you have to pay a higher own contribution to the rent because of the so-called quality discount in the rental fee. But worst off are those on low incomes and entitled to rent allowance who live in a property with a rent of between €600 and €730 per month. The part of the rent above roughly €600 per month is not compensated by the rent surcharge. And this is not a small group; there are more than half a million households in our country who are described as so-called 'expensive skeptics'. Their own contribution to the rent is clearly too high for their income, but unfortunately the government is not taking any measures to meet these "expensive skeptics"; it is now proposing a proposal that only increases their problem. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet mentions some of the arguments why his proposal would be reasonable, but we do not think they are valid. Firstly, the government says that linking the own contribution to the rent to the development of the net assistance allowance would be inappropriate because the purchasing power of people with a minimum income is already maintained in a different way. That argument doesn't add up. First of all, there is no legislation guaranteeing the purchasing power of people in the assistance or with another low income. From year to year, there are ad hoc measures to maintain this purchasing power; over the years, the purchasing power of people with the lowest incomes lags behind that of others. The rent allowance is intended precisely to ensure that you do not lose an increasing proportion of your low income in rent. Therefore, the linking of the own contribution to the rent to the development of the net assistance allowance is not improper, but a key element of the system. One could argue that there should be a better form of linking to the development of low incomes, but a link to average rent increases, which generally exceed the increase in low incomes, undermines the system of rent surcharges. Secondly, the Minister suggests that it would be reasonable to compare the increase in the own contribution to the rent for recipients of rent payments with the increase in the rent for others in the social sector. But that goes without saying that other tenants also don't pay the average rent increase. After all, it's just an average. For example, housing corporations increase the rent by no more than inflation. That's what they're gonna do in the years to come. Private landlords of social housing increased rents last year with inflation plus 1.5%. And as long as that's legally allowed, unfortunately, private landlords will increase the rents by more than the housing corporations each year. The average rent increase will thus be higher throughout the social sector than the rent increase in housing corporations. And because of the indexation provided for in this bill, the own contribution to the rent for tenants of corporations that need a rent allowance will increase more than the rent of the other tenants in housing corporations, although they have a less low income. That, I say to the Minister, is not fair. Does she see it differently? How does she motivate it? Mr. Chairman. All in all, the SP Group sees many objections to this part of the bill. There is no argument for it, unless the purpose of the cabinet is that it can cut the rent surcharge. The Minister denies this. However, my group does not wish to give its final judgment until after the Minister's reaction. After all, it is not impossible for her to come up with arguments that convince us. We are therefore particularly curious about her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting the government on behalf of the PvdA Group, a compliment for the first half of this bill. In fact, the government proposes that the hard income limit for the rent payment should be abolished, thus gradually reducing the rent payment as income increases. This will prevent many people from falling into poverty at the end of the year and paying back a lot of supplements unnecessarily. As former alderman Wonen van Eindhoven, I regularly spoke to tenants who had to do with this problem. So that deserves a compliment. I would also like to make it clear here that I am still a Commissioner at a housing corporation. The present bill serves a general public interest, for the tenants, and expressly no private interest. In my capacity as Commissioner, I also recognise the problem of the hard income limits for the own contribution to the rent payment. This first part of the bill is therefore a good plan, according to the PvdA group. Mr. Chairman. Then the second half of the bill: the abolition of the kan-regime. This scheme is relevant for 1.4 million households in the Netherlands who receive an annual rent allowance. Those households will automatically receive a moderate indexation of the own contribution through that kan scheme. This moderate indexation is urgently needed in uncertain times, in which daily living becomes more expensive and this is also explicitly felt directly by people. The PvdA Group now considers it important not to increase this own contribution to the rent too quickly. It is therefore a pity that these two legislative amendments are not presented separately to the Upper Chamber; colleagues have already referred to them. This despite the fact that the Hoekstra motion was adopted unanimously in this Chamber on 17 March 2015, in which the cabinet was asked to refrain from any linking of legislative proposals in the future, as the First Chamber would not then be in a position to make a separate political final assessment of the independent legislative proposals. That is why the question to the Minister, Mr President, I am still trying to explain why it is not acting in line with the Hoekstra motion. Then back to the kan-regime. It thus provides for an automatic moderation of the own contribution to the rent, since it always chooses the lowest indexation rate of the two percentages, of the expected rent or net assistance development. The cabinet wants to abolish this option and now opt for the expected rent increase by default. By abolishing this kan-regime, the own contribution to the rent will increase faster in the coming years than without that abolition. After all, the choice of the lowest indexation disappears? Of course, as members of the First Chamber, we want to have an insight into the financial effects of this legislative amendment. After all, assessing the effects of legislation is one of our core tasks? In response to questions from several political groups, the cabinet indicates that this is in fact impossible to predict in relation to the many variables associated with it. We also asked in writing to look back in time. In response, the Cabinet indicated that if the Kan-regime had been abolished earlier, for example in 2006, we would have had another percentage increase, 16% as opposed to the 26.4% it was today. So that's a big difference of 10%. This raises the question of why this measure is being chosen. Is it a disguised cut on the rent allowance? That is not the case, as the Minister asks in response to previous questions. Then the real question is which problem is solved. In the reply to this question, the cabinet replies: 'This prevents the use of a specific housing market instrument for general income repair'. (...) "This makes the year on year-on-year development of the rental fee more predictable and not dependent on measures and developments outside the residential area. This also provides more clarity for citizens." End of quote. We ask the Minister what kind of citizen is waiting for this kind of regulatory clarity. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that citizens are mainly interested in the final result, namely the final percentage by which that own contribution is indexed or not. In our opinion, citizens have a particular interest in the lowest possible percentage. Does the Minister share this assumption? If not, can she explain why not? For the cabinet, the solution to the problem arising from the abolition of the Kan-regime is already ready, as these are the annual purchasing power figures. A lot is solved with that, says the cabinet. However, these are based on averages and point clouds; we've heard a lot about them lately in the media. Even if they were average, they would never apply exactly to individual people and families. I would like a reflection from the Minister on these purchasing power figures, in response to the abolition of that kan-regime. Can the Minister confirm that purchasing power plates do not indeed guarantee moderation of the own contribution, as the Kan-regime does? What specific purchasing power repair does it intend to make up for the abolition of the Kan-regime? Can the Minister explain why, at this time of rising energy bills and more expensive messages, she also wants to abolish the automatic moderation of the rent? Does the Minister consider this measure justified, with the knowledge of the historical effect, at this time of increasing primary living costs? And if so, why? Mr. Chairman. To sum up, the PvdA Group's main objection to abolishing the kan-regime is perhaps to make it clear by means of a proverb "with an excuse for the Party for Animals," but it is not there, so it does not hear it either: better one bird in the hand than ten in the air. The kan-rule is then that one bird, which gives tenants the assurance of a moderation of the indexation of the own contribution to the rent. That certainty is exchanged with this proposal for ten beautiful birds in the air, namely the purchasing power plates. They're very nice to look at, but chances are they'll fly by you and you'll have it checked out as a tenant. We are curious about the Minister's answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then again, I note that we have passed the first term of office more quickly than had been planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-10.u11	The tricky thing is that we need to see to what extent the initiators of the other bill are already ready for their first-term response. That also depends on the committee meetings. I guess I'll just take a chance, at the risk of everyone being mad at me. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:50 p.m.
