ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the report by the Council of State on the digitisation of government. I welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and give the floor to Mr Van der Molen as the first speaker, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are talking about an unsolicited opinion from the Council of State, which is already over a year old, because it is so long ago that I have already requested this debate. But now a lot has also happened in that year, not least on the side of the Secretary of State. In the opinion of the CDA, one of the most important things is the generation of digital inclusion, whatever the Council of State does, with the realization that not everyone in the Netherlands can cope so easily in that digital world, that it causes people to fall behind and that we also have to take that into account. But there have also been actions by the Chamber, including, for example, a motion by Mr Verhoeven of D66 and myself on a watchdog or an authority on algorithms. For many people this is an elusive system, in which decisions are made that affect their lives. This means that we have not been idle in terms of digitalisation in the past year either. Digitisation therefore has two faces. On the one hand, it enables the human dimension through better service. On the other hand, it also interferes with human size, because if we standardize everything, what is your specific situation worth? The government should also have no anonymity behind such a website that you should do business with. You should also be able to be in touch. The Council of State notes that digitalisation is really changing the relationship between citizens and government. That is why it is good to have a debate on this with each other. The policy letter of the Secretary of State, Director of Data, addresses this changing relationship between citizen and government. The citizen must gain more control over his or her data, but that does not make the citizen the owner of his or her data, the Secretary of State adds in his or her letter. As far as the CDA is concerned, that cannot be the end of the story, as the Council of State actually points out. Every Dutchman should own his or her personal data or data as far as we are concerned. Now it is true that personal data and data do not yet have a place in the Civil Code. The GDPR regulates the use and processing of personal data, but not who owns it. An unambiguous legal provision should provide certainty to citizens and a solid basis for the relationship of data to, among other things, government platforms. That is why I have a broader question to ask the cabinet: is it not even time to settle that right of ownership on our data and data through the Civil Code? That really is a fundamental right in that relationship between citizen and government. I'd love to hear the Secretary of State's reaction. After this more fundamental question, I come to the end of my contribution to a specific case on digitisation which I would like to present to the Secretary of State. Mistakes are made in the government, because it's all human work, so that's inevitable, but citizens often get hurt, for example if something is introduced into those basic registrations, so you suddenly get a problem because you don't get a supplement. I spoke to a lady last Sunday who doesn't get a child care allowance because it's registered in another system that her husband is in a nursing home. At the Sociale Verzekeringsbank, they find that the man can still look after the children. All that doesn't fit together and the woman is the victim and has to deal with it herself. Then I find it striking that we hear from the Court of Auditors that an initial plan to create a platform that is in between and can intervene on the wrong data of which citizens are victims would not be forthcoming. For the Court of Auditors said years ago: someone must be able to intervene when people are being hurt. That's the same as what the Council of State says. We have to be careful of that. I would really like to ask the Secretary of State if I understood the Minister, it was a letter from Mrs Ollongren when she wrote that we are not going to do that anymore. Then how does the Minister see the possibilities of actually assisting the people who are the victims of our complex systems and resolving matters for them? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow it will be exactly a year since this debate was requested, but it is good to talk in plenary today about digitisation. Because, of course, the digital world has not stood still since the Council of State gave its opinion. Yesterday, a report from the WRR was published to address the vulnerability of our digital defense. I have a direct question to the Secretary of State: when can we expect a cabinet response to that report? The State Committee on Parliamentary System, which we will soon be discussing extensively in this Chamber, has also made recommendations in the area of digitisation. And right now, there's a temporary chamber committee working to look at the digital future, and how we can get a better grip on this as a parliament. However, today's debate deals specifically with the unsolicited opinion of the Council of State. This opinion raises a number of important legal concerns and suggests to the Council of State how these concerns can be addressed. GroenLinks shares those concerns of the Council of State. The Council of State rightly calls for attention to be paid to the position of citizens. The position of citizens is too often underestimated by the government, and speed and costs are taken too quickly as the main guiding principle for policy. Mr. Chairman. An important concern is digital decision-making based on algorithms. Because of this automated form of decision-making, there is no longer any need for decision-making. This may sound efficient and saves costs, but the circumstances of the case and/or the situation, an important criterion for GroenLinks, are hardly or insufficiently taken into account in this decision-making process. There is also a risk of undesirable effects, such as discrimination. With regard to GroenLinks, the use of algorithms must always be verifiable as to how a particular decision was made. How are things now, so I ask the Secretary of State, with monitoring the use of algorithms by the government? At the end of May, a study by the NOS revealed that governments use large-scale predictive algorithms. As a result of these results, the Dutch Data Protection Authority has called on the government to be much more transparent about the application of algorithms. In the cabinet response, the Secretary of State refers several times to the GDPR and the Code Good Digital Board. How's this code coming? And do the existing rules provide sufficient protection against unwanted use of algorithms? Because even though algorithms don't lead to direct decisions, they can be very controlling. Often people do not know that algorithms are being used, and certainly not how they can defend themselves against wrong use. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an important concern for GroenLinks, namely how to ensure that everyone, including those who are less or not able to make use of the digital service, can always continue to participate in society. We have nearly 2.5 million low-lettered people in our country. These people must also be able to communicate with the government. I know that the Secretary of State is using the line that contact via the post or a counter should always be possible. I'm very happy about that. In addition, it is of course good to support anyone who is unable to do so in digital participation. For a large group of people it is becoming increasingly difficult to participate and communicate fully with the government. There is a real need to invest in opportunities for these people. For example, contact points in neighbourhoods, where people can get help with digital contact with the government. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the public must always be at the forefront of services. And the development and improvement of services must always be driven from the citizen's perspective. How can citizens be helped as adequately and inclusively as possible? Too often, unfortunately, we still see too much being driven from the government's perspective. What is the state of implementation of the recommendations in this area? Mr. Chairman. In its opinion, the Council of State states that legislation on digital development is now often made too ad hoc. The Council of State also sees a tension between, on the one hand, technical independent legislation and, on the other, legal certainty and the primacy of the legislator. That's a tricky field of tension. Nevertheless, we must guarantee the quality of legislation and legal certainty from our constitutional point of view. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the legislator can ensure that the principles of state law are properly safeguarded. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u5	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD Group. Speaking of digitalization! How's the cathedral coming along, Mr. Middendorp?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u6	I think it's going so well, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. A lot has certainly happened since this report came out, but if people get a "computer says no" answer or just get stuck in communication with the digital government, then that digital government still doesn't work for them. There are really poignant examples of digital human suffering. If an application for a day care allowance crashes into a digital system because two parents have to log in at the same time, but that's just not possible, that's for a father lost time in which he can't play with his children. Last week's reports on conflicts between the Ministry of the Interior summit and the independent ICT watchdog, the ICT Examination Office, are very worrying. People are worried when newspaper reports come about additional billions for ICT projects. Then they think, "Does the government have any control over ICT?" And: is the government building a digital government that works for us? It's so important to do this right. Otherwise, we will not be able to carry out all the opinions given by the Council of State unsolicited. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State is deeply concerned about the communication between the digital government and the citizen. The VVD supports this cabinet's action plans, for example for digital inclusion. We really need to make the digital government more accessible, so that we can take everyone in the Netherlands into the digital revolution, and make this revolution affordable and easy for all Dutch people. It is primarily about strengthening the digital dialogue. Why can't Dutch people on MyGovernment respond to the messages of the digital government? Mr. Chairman. In its opinion, the Council of State also makes a number of comments on the handling of personal data by the government. There are many arguments for an online identity, on which the VVD together with D66 has made an initiative paper. A note from the Council of State report even refers to this initiative paper, which I have been told is special. It is not only special, but also great, because an online identity could be a way to really introduce the single source concept in the Netherlands as it applies in Estonia. I'd like the Secretary of State's response to that. The CDA was just talking about the ownership of data. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State why a digital safe should change the ownership of personal data according to the VVD. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has advocated human grip on algorithms and put forward proposals for smart monitoring that works for people, executable and enforceable for the government, and does not block innovation. The Secretary of State is working with the Minister for Legal Protection on a letter on algorithms. I would like to ask him here, also in the light of the opinions given by the Council of State on this issue, which are actually at the highest level the differences between governments and non-governments when they use algorithms. In any case, let us not build a bureaucratic data control system. We must prevent this, and I hope that the Secretary of State will agree with me that each ministry will set up its own algorithm watchdog and hundreds of officials will deal with what dates are used where. The Secretary of State has often referred to the GDPR in his response, and this is sometimes very appropriate here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u7	Mr Verhoeven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr President, thank you. Mr Middendorp says that the VVD wants smart monitoring of algorithms and then he says that he is afraid that each ministry will set up its own watchdog for algorithms. D66 has long argued for a broad independent algorithm watchdog. What does the VVD think of that idea? So not every ministry and not a bureaucratic data control system, but just a strong independent supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u9	The VVD has long argued for a supervisory framework with a supervisor that supervises algorithms. That is indeed better than an algorithm watchdog in each department, as I hear here sometimes. So I agree with D66. That's what the VVD is advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Middendorp. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr. Chairman. It all fits on one leaf, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u12	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u13	Yeah, it's amazing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Digitisation offers great opportunities. Let's not forget that either. Quickly look up information, easily file your tax returns and keep in touch with the whole world. Progress is, of course, the right of technology to exist. But digital technologies often, especially in the beginning, have too light and late thought about the downsides, the disadvantages. Online voting sounds fun until the voting machine is hacked. Tackling fraud also sounds fun, until it leads to discrimination. An efficient government also sounds fun, until the government becomes an impenetrable and inaccessible moloch. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has warned about these side effects, and this has been an important signal from him, with the main starting point being that ICT is there for society and for people, not for the government and for civil servants. The timing of the Council of State has been good, because just before the summer recess, the NOS has reported that algorithms are increasingly being used by all kinds of governments and public authorities for decision-making about people. The way that happens is irresponsible. There is no overview and no control, it leads to proliferation and there are serious risks that may result from it. For example, the combination of big data and algorithms can lead to discrimination. Take SyRI, the algorithm to track down fraudsters based on big data. It doesn't work, it turns out, and it may be discriminatory, but it does have a major impact on people's lives. So that can't go on. Automated decision-making must be verifiable, explanatory and reversible with regard to D66. That is also a bit in line with what Mrs Özütok said about the fact that people always have to continue to play a role in decisions about other people. These principles should be monitored by an algorithm watchdog, an algorithm watchdog, as far as D66 is concerned. This authority may check whether the algorithm and the data used do not lead to discrimination and whether people still have sufficient explanation of the decisions taken with it. After human intervention, a decision must also be reversible. There was a broad-based motion of D66 on this and, in my opinion, CDA, mentioned Mr Van der Molen, who, in his speech, was also accompanied by a motion by VVD and Christian Union. They were both hired for the summer. So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the implementation of such an algorithm authority. In recent years, we have had to wait for all kinds of anticipation on this subject. It's a complex subject, so some understanding of the Chamber is in order. The Secretary of State also knows me as an understanding person, but I think we should move on now. We can't wait endlessly. Given the unverifiable algorithmal wild growth, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to include in his plans for that algorithm watchdog a reporting obligation as part of it, so that we can get more insight into all kinds of algorithms that are now being developed without any control at all levels of government and public authorities. I would like to respond to these proposals. Then access to the government. This is also an important point, which has also been mentioned by a number of colleagues. The Council of State sees this as even a principle of good governance, which must be extended in all digital communications. Will the Secretary of State also lay this down in legislation? Finally, on this point. In the Home Affairs budget, D66 also tabled a motion with five principles for the digital government: humanity, transparency, expertise, flexibility and data protection. I remember that this motion was very much supported by the Secretary of State at the time, so I am very curious about the implementation of this motion. One final question on BIT. It's not part of the agenda, but I just want to know. If the Secretary of State says he'll come back to that later, I'll settle for it, but it's incredibly important. The BIT is systematically countered. As far as we are concerned, this leads to a follow-up to the unhealthy culture that was in the government when it came to ICT projects. What does the Secretary of State think of the future of BIT? Does he want to extend that five years and look at the position, status and independence of BIT, so that it can continue to do its good work? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u14	Mr Verhoeven mentioned the addition of motions on algorithms. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven's motion and Mr Van der Molen's motion, which was an excellent motion, is a bit of a turnaround, because just before that, the VVD's own-initiative paper described how we can organise smart monitoring of these algorithms. That's what my question is about. I hear Mr Verhoeven saying that there are a lot of bad things about all the algorithms. That's what he sketched here. He has mentioned a number of them, which he suspect are causing dangerous situations. Will Mr Verhoeven then have all the algorithms of the government checked by the watchdog he wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u15	No. Algorithms exist in many types and sizes, but large implementing agencies make tough decisions about people's lives, for example on allocating certain allowances or suspecting benefit fraud or tax fraud. Those are far-reaching decisions that can directly affect people in their lives. These algorithms are now being developed by various public authorities. Whether it's about leaving school, fraud or the chance of a home invasion, algorithms are being developed for all kinds of policy issues. No one's got eyes on that. The government also replied to D66's parliamentary questions that it didn't know what different algorithms were in all kinds of different municipalities, provinces, implementing agencies and water boards. I find that worrying, because there is also a great deal of work going on there, and I say it perhaps a little too unparliamentaryly crafted, experimented and tried, which in itself is positive, until it affects people's lives. Those algorithms are about D66. I think Mr Middendorp knows that too. We must ensure that these algorithms do not lead to unfair decisions about certain, often vulnerable groups. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u16	Mr Middendorp does not know this and does not really understand what is meant by 'algorithms that affect people's lives'. What is the selection criterion that D66 proposes to have algorithms reported to the government, for example? What algorithms should be reported?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u17	I think that is a very nice question, but that means that Mr Middendorp actually says: I see that algorithms pose a danger, but I am going to look for a certain limit. I would like to propose the following. Have an algorithm watchdog come in, where it can be reported. That watchdog can decide independently whether control is necessary. And let organisations and governments themselves take responsibility to report this. If it turns out that important hurtful or discriminatory algorithms are not reported, that watchdog can intervene. But if you, as a government, allow all kinds of different algorithms to be used for all kinds of things that make decisions about people, you shouldn't go looking for the grey area where it might or might not have to be reported, with the VVD swarm of bureaucracy over it. Because that is always a bit afraid of the VVD: too much bureaucracy. My concern is not to discriminate against people who are victims of an algorithm that is not well developed, which has not been properly thought out, which is not controlled and which has no control. This problem is not unimaginable, because it happens in the United States, it happens in Rotterdam, it happens everywhere: vulnerable groups are affected by unthinking algorithms. We need to put an end to that. As far as I'm concerned, we're all doing that search as a room, but I think there's a broad support for an algorithm watchdog. As far as I am concerned, a notification obligation would be a very nice addition, so that the government can see those algorithms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u18	Yes, finally, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u19	Some of this does appeal to me. Let me just skip the bureaucratic blur and so on, because VVD and D66 are of course against a bureaucratic data control system. But I go a long way with Mr Verhoeven when he says: yes, let those algorithm-using institutions themselves decide what they can and cannot report. That seems to me a very nice principle and that is also what the VVD initially proposed. But I think that we will have to give that supervisor a little more of that kind of principle than just to say: that is a very small grey area. Because there are a lot of algorithms. Mr Verhoeven agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u20	Very briefly, there are several reporting obligations. For example, there is a data leak notification requirement. I was once subtly reminded of this by Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u21	In a subtle way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u22	Yes, as usual with the CDA in general and with Mr Van der Molen in particular. But what data leaks would you have to report? This is primarily up to the organisations themselves. But there is a supervisor who checks when she hears or sees from citizens or other signals that something has not been reported. That's the point. So it's just a search for a good system. Those systems already exist, and you can definitely think of them for algorithms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u23	Come on, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u24	Do I know how to stimulate Mr Middendorp a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u25	I knew you guys were gonna argue with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are coming a long way, but I would like to put the following to Mr Verhoeven. There really is a difference between a data breach, which is one event we all don't want. You can clearly tell a supervisor that that shouldn't happen, and an algorithm, which we don't know for sure discriminates and all the bad things that Mr Verhoeven mentioned. I would also like to say that the VVD is also about non-discrimination. But I think that parallel between data leaks and algorithms is a little too easy. I believe, when I hear it like that, that Mr Verhoeven can only agree with me that there should be a little more direction from the Chamber, from this debate on what we want to give the supervisor of principles. We got one good one, I hope we can get more together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u27	Agreed. Each debate makes comparisons that go a little bit limp. Mr Middendorp is right about that. But this is a debate in which we are trying to make it clear with images what we are talking about here. Mr Middendorp was standing here about a year ago and then he was asked whether he wanted to allow algorithms to discriminate. Then he said a little bit of caution that he didn't want to. Today he said rather carefully: yes, we are for an authority. The VVD is making steps in the right direction, for which I am grateful to Mr Middendorp. The VVD sees the importance of non-discrimination, equality and the protection of vulnerable groups, despite the fact that it has difficulty with forms of supervision, which they often see as bureaucratic. I would certainly like to look with Mr Middendorp and other Members of Parliament for a balanced way in which we can implement this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u28	Look. Then... Are you gonna stand by the interrupting microphone all night?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u29	I will end the second interruption with this. I think the story about discrimination is a little out of context. Mr Verhoeven supported the VVD's initiative paper in a motion with the CDA, but it is quite clear that all of this is not the intention of the VVD. That is why we have made all these fine proposals on smart supervision right. I would like to put that to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u30	Then you have corrected this point as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u31	Unlike Mr Middendorp, I can well follow Mr Verhoeven on the point of reporting. The Dutch Data Protection Authority also has no detectives on the move. It must also receive signals and then see if there is any need for action. But I would like to comment on another watchdog mentioned by Mr Verhoeven. In itself, BIT is not the subject of the debate, but that came by. I hear Mr Verhoeven now saying: Secretary of State, you are still coming up with plans. That is indeed the motion that has been adopted in the Chamber, but can we not extend it for another five years? Does Mr Verhoeven no longer agree with us as a CDA that we simply need such a watchdog permanently? I didn't want to pass up the opportunity to ask you here. We can't live without the BIT. What is Mr Verhoeven's view of making permanent rather than extending for five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u32	"Permanent," "forever" requires a horizon that I cannot overlook as a simple MP. I welcome the enthusiasm for the independent louse in the fur that BIT is. The Chamber has set it up itself hugely. I'm a careful person, so I thought, "Let me start with five years and we'll see where we come from." The BIT must be there as long as there are ICT projects running completely out of time and money, and there is a culture in many ministries where mistakes are covered and risks are not reported to keep the ruler out of the wind. As long as that culture is there, you will need a powerful, independent body to deal with it. "Forever" is a long time, but as far as I'm concerned it must be long. In any case, it must not be affected by lowering the Director's salary, shortening the term to one year, working against it and systematically undermining it. Those are all very bad things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u33	I'm just trying to see if we can stick to the subject. The BIT also has an interface with it, but if it is right, there is also a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u34	Yes, absolutely, Mr. Chairman. The Chamber is going to have a lot of debates on digitisation in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u35	Yeah, but I can already tell it's coming back to everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u36	I understand very well that a CDA man uses the word "eternality" more easily than a D66 man. Mr President, you are absolutely right that we are going to debate this with each other, but I hear Mr Verhoeven saying that if we have that debate together, I could find him by my side when it comes to a permanent BIT. That's what I like to hear him say today, so I can hold him to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u37	Perhaps Mr Verhoeven will be able to say something about this in the debate. Not now, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u38	It would be greedy to repeat my answer completely now. Mr Van der Molen and I are on the same page. The BIT is provisional and it takes a long time to break culture in ministries and not let ICT projects run into billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u39	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u40	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u41	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I stand here to replace my colleague Van Raak. Mr. Chairman. Digitisation in government is potentially a good thing and something beautiful. It can make processes simpler and shorter and thus make it easier for people to settle business with the government and seek information. Unfortunately, we often see in practice that digitalisation is mainly used from the point of view of cost savings and that people are forced to go for the digital option alone in whole and half ways. I find it annoying when my bank does that, but I find it really unacceptable if my government does that. If you consider that the Netherlands has just been referred to, there are almost 2.5 million low-lettered people, who have a lot of problems with digital work above average, then that is simply problematic. I would like to back this up with an example of what the UWV is currently saying in its correspondence: "In exceptional cases, you can continue to receive the letters on your benefit by mail. This can only be done if the following applies to you. You can't handle a computer or the Internet, even with the help of your environment or after taking a course. Only then can you continue to receive the letters." Mr. Chairman. That's a government agency that asks people to show that they would fail a course or have no one around them who can help them with digital work. How humiliating can you make it as a government for people? You're not digitizing, you're really ruling out people. Mr. Chairman. It is a misunderstanding that the desire for non-digital communication only lives with elderly, low-literate and so on. For example, look at the DUO service, which, years ago, was heavily committed to digitalization. At the same time, telephone access was completed because it was no longer necessary in the new era. The opposite turned out to be true. Every summer, again this summer, we see long waiting times at DUO, because young, often highly educated people also say: we need human contact and human guidance if, for example, we are going to close a study debt of thousands of euros. I don't blame them. In this context, the SP was very fond of the Council of State's proposal on the right of access to and meaningful contact with the government. In the letter in response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Secretary of State hardly goes into that, except for the reference to an amendment of the Awb. Has this recommendation been made in concrete terms, or is it still going to be done? Mr. Chairman. Then algorithms. Something has just been said about the threat of that. Even an algorithm is not inherently bad, but now that algorithms are making decisions more and more often in practice, sometimes without any human insight, kafkaesque situations threaten citizens sometimes having to fight for years to get their rights. The various examples, including the problem of supplements, have already been mentioned. The first requirement for algorithms is transparency. The Council of State rightly recommends that a decision should explicitly explain the automatic decision-making rules that have been used, i.e. the algorithm "s' and the data taken from other administrative bodies. That is very sensible, but are we really going to implement this in full with all the services? Because the Council of State also says: we need unity of policy rather than every ad hoc service doing something else. Are we gonna do this? The letter didn't make that clear to me. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Just a brief word about the ICT test; I couldn't help it either. The NRC has recently published a worrying document describing that directors and senior officials would like to frustrate and shortwig the BIT. Now the BIT has been set up from this Chamber as a temporary agency. It was intended that it would be closed after five years because ministries would be sufficiently equipped to carry out these projects themselves. In the 902 days that I am allowed to be a Member of Parliament, I have not yet seen any indication that ministries are capable of doing so. In fact, the number of ICT problems seems to be increasing. The BIT is more necessary than that. We are going to have another debate on this, but as far as I am concerned, the Chamber sends a very clear signal to the Secretary of State, to the Cabinet, to anyone: the BIT is ours; don't touch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Secretary of State if he needs a brief suspension. A 20-minute suspension? Oh. Okay, I'll suspend the meeting for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u44	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all Members for their input on such an important subject. It has been said by many: society is changing rapidly, not only in society, but also under the influence of technological developments and digitalisation. There are positive aspects to this; that is what we call the opportunities. That is the progress Mr Verhoeven mentioned. And there are also a number of points about what that does with our fundamental rights. Every time innovation takes place, the legislator should also continue to build in guarantees for new techniques that may ultimately also have a negative impact on citizens. That's what you're trying to prevent. I believe that this debate is about this and that this is something that has been set out in the cabinet's ambitions. We are, or should be, dealing with a government that serves the Dutch and not citizens that serve the government. The government is there for those citizens. It must provide those services in a way that meets the standards and standards we agree on here. At the same time, we need legislation that is a little out of the order of this debate for private parties, which citizens also have to deal with, in order to protect those citizens. The Council of State, in its unsolicited opinion, I am very pleased with this, because that once again underlines the importance of this subject................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It took us a while to have this debate, but I would almost say that you should have this debate every year to see how progress is and where things could be even better. But the Council of State also paints a situation in which we are dealing with an extremely dynamic development, much more dynamic than other developments in the past. This means that, as legislators, you should organise yourself differently in this area. The same goes for the government. It is very easy to say that ICT projects are not going well with the government or that we have no idea of algorithms. The point is, of course, we've been working with algorithms for a long time. When we didn't call it algorithms, they were algorithms. But they were generally quite simple and therefore also explainable. With that, there was control. With the new technical means algorithms become more complex. It's less clear exactly what they're doing. There he is, the point that some of you have indicated. There could be violations of fundamental rights and discrimination. Of course, that's not something you want as a government. You also do not want the systems to be leading and that there could no longer be any control or correction. Of course, before the Council of State's advice, the cabinet has already rolled out a whole agenda of issues that we consider to be of great importance not only as a government but also in our role as responsible for digital society and government, to equip citizens with opportunities to participate in that digital world, that digital highway, let me just put it that way. Some of you, including Mr Futselaar and Mrs Özütok, have rightly pointed out that there is also a large group of people who do not get it by themselves. We have already discussed this in previous debates. In fact, in this complex world, it also requires something from citizens not only to be able to assess whether they can participate, but also to be able to assess the consequences of their individual actions. I think the algorithm is an example of that. We also see this in discussions about social media, where people give up certain data. When I teach at primary schools about Donald Duck's digital world, that's what you're actually talking about: what do you share, and are you aware that you're making yourself vulnerable if you don't know what the consequences of your actions are? The cabinet sees itself as the primary responsibility for this, but we also want to do so with co-governments, civil society organisations and business. When it comes to the digital government for citizens and businesses, it's invested in me. When it comes to the digital economy, it lies with Secretary of State Keijzer. And when it comes to protecting our systems, it's invested with the Minister of Justice and Security. The digitalisation of government and the protection of public values, such as privacy, self-determination and equality, are still needed. On the other hand, digitalisation is also a fact; it will never go away, but will only develop faster. It is therefore essential that we strive for transparency. I think that was also a bit the input of a number of Members. If you can explain what you are doing and why you are doing it, and if you can also have a debate about it that is transparent and understandable, then you can set standards. You'll have a normative debate. This in turn provides the framework within which everyone can work. This also applies to government organisations, because it is easy to speak of "government," but there are, of course, a lot of government organisations. There are departments and there are implementation organisations, which have often developed models under the same principles of equality, which hardly give the room to deviate. In the examples that are then mentioned, people are trapped in a system and cannot get out of it, because above all we do not want to deviate. Let me say this: I think that, in a world in which digitalisation is going further and further and in which systems become important in order to be able to operate properly and to provide good and reliable services, there must always be some kind of emergency valve where people can go. That could be the track mentioned by Mr Futselaar, where we have not only the digital highway but also the paper, analog route. This also requires a number of things from the government, because there too you have to communicate clearly. It may also be that you make that digital route very simple and accessible, but that people, when they get stuck, can always end up somewhere, so that they are never mangled into a system. That's what happens sometimes, unfortunately. Then the question is, how are we going to solve that? Mr Snel also had a debate with the Chamber on this subject, namely the Supplements Service. There you can see that a lot of calculations and models are automated to make no mistakes and not to deviate in certain situations. Sometimes you get really weird, unintended outcomes. I think we also see here that we always need that emergency valve. The Ombudsman also pointed this out earlier. Mr. Chairman. I cannot say often enough that the starting point for digitalisation is very simple: everyone must be able to participate. There's a lot of ways to do that. This can be done by making the systems easier. It can also be done by helping people who can't get on that digital highway. Then there'll always be a group that doesn't want it or can't. You're gonna have to have alternative resources for that. The Council of State has advised on three main points, three main groups. The first is about automated decision-making, the second is about big data and self-learning systems and the last is about chain decision-making. On the basis of the questions asked, I would like to look at a number of these elements. The Council of State appoints artificial intelligence, artificial intelligence, as one of the technologies in which legal safeguards are of great importance. I very much agree with that. This means that, with the nuance that we already want to make legislation independent of technology, we should ultimately try to anchor those safeguards properly for citizens in the law, without stopping progress. Because we don't want the latter either. We want to be a government that can adapt to technological development. On this important subject, artificial intelligence, your Chamber will receive three documents in a few weeks' time: a letter from the Minister of the Interior on the protection of public values and human rights, a letter from the Secretary of State of EZK on the Strategic Action Plan for Artificial Intelligence and a letter from the Minister for Legal Protection on the protection against risks of data analyses by the government. Once again, the date of this debate has come to an end after that report from the Council of State, but I think it is good that we should discuss this further after the coming of these letters. I would also like to point out that several directors have an involvement in this. In fact, you could say that that applies to all directors, but these are the directors directly involved. The second point concerns digital services. The Council of State goes into meaningful contact with the government, so that you feel taken seriously as a citizen and so that you have a place where you can go and it is accessible. When we started the Digital Inclusion Action Plan, I said once again that this is really a key issue for me and that we still have a great deal to gain here. That's about accessibility of websites, so you don't end up in all kinds of routes you can't get out of. It is also about the fact that people with restrictions can also use those websites. It is also about how we use our language: the pitch but also the complexity that is often spoken. That's what we used language ambassadors for. I also mention the Direct Clear campaign, in which we ask all those involved in the government, in particular implementing organisations, to do everything they do and with whom they communicate with citizens, in a clear and simple manner. It's not even that simple in itself. We start early, even when it comes to raising young people's awareness. When I'm at primary schools, I notice that they're fast running all kinds of devices and that they often know a lot more about the possibilities of digital devices and the world wide web. But they are not always aware of the dangers that lie behind them. When you talk about being an active citizen and finding a way in society, I think that's also very important. Problems with people who are stuck often involve vulnerable people who have difficulty reading and writing, or who are otherwise unable to follow what the government means. So we're not doing that right, and we need to improve that. That is why we also have the Digital Government Information Point. I opened the first in Venlo last July. To Mrs Özütok I say that we are going to set up 135 locations where there is a physical window and where people can go to the library. There they can get information about rent allowance, WW, AOW, care allowance and child benefit. The first experiences are very positive. Of course, people need to find out, but it is a very nice way to put people with questions they may not even be able to formulate themselves on the right track with the help of others. Eventually, you want people to get what they're entitled to and feel like the government is there for them. I would also like to mention another important element. There are also good examples of this. There are older people who still learn how to use iPad and all the digital roads at the age of 80 or 90. It's always nice to see how enthusiastic people pick that up and how they immediately see the opportunities and opportunities. That's what we're gonna keep doing. Also on the basis of the WRR report Knowing has not yet been done, we have finally introduced the do-it-yourself test in all policies and legislation since last year. One example of this is the amendment of the General Administrative Law Act on electronic administrative traffic, whereby paper and the digital road are aligned in the contact between citizens and government. Another example is the change that regulates the obligation of care for administrative bodies to provide appropriate support, regardless of digitisation, for communication with and between public authorities. These are examples that may not always attract the full attention, but which are slowly but surely doing what we all advocate, namely improving the provision of public services. Mrs Özütok also asked about Directie op Data. With regard to the Directorate-General for Data, the Council of State has said a number of commendable things that the government has already started working on. I sent the Vision Letter for Data to your Chamber on 11 July. This includes, inter alia, the possibility of sharing own data with third parties outside the government. An example of Direction on Data is the trial currently being prepared for the digital sharing of income data with housing corporations. With the permission of the prospective tenant, the corporations receive digitally certified income data from the basic registration income of the Tax Administration via MyGovernment. Mr. Chairman. In all of these things there is also the dilemma that we are actually asking quite a lot of citizens, namely to participate in digital development, also because technology makes it possible. We are also dealing with a group that has not experienced this whole development. This gap is therefore only widening for some people. I feel that duty of care, and I also think that we should help and assist people who are in trouble through the information points in libraries or otherwise. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the specific questions put by Members. Mr Futselaar asked whether anything concrete had been done with the right to human contact. I just reported that. I must honestly say that the example he mentioned in the letter from the UWV did not immediately appeal to me in a positive way. That seemed rather commanding. If you hand me the text, I will work on it with your permission. I don't do that to criticize people and say that they shouldn't make mistakes, because that's what happens to the government, but to learn from it and do it better. I think that's what you want, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u46	Thank you, that has my warm encouragement. I'll hand over the text in a minute. I am not specifically concerned with the UWV, but I think this shows that only a hypothetical possibility to deviate from the digital main road is not enough if everything is then done to prevent people from getting onto it. So there's quite a bit of a grey area between "theoretic there's a possibility" and "there's nothing." You can make things very difficult for people and still keep it technically possible. I'm a little afraid that's gonna hang on to too many pieces of government. Can the Secretary of State see anything in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u47	We come to speak about watchdogs and so on; there has been a lot of talk about dogs this evening. But one of the elements in this is that any example that is not positive, that does not work out well, helps to improve processes. That's the way I see it. So I'm not really looking for these kinds of examples, because I prefer not to see them, but they do help to make people aware that they might need to write it down something else. I understand that it is easier for organisations to do it in a clear way from an efficiency point of view, but politically, once again, in the Chamber and by the Cabinet, we are there for everyone. We have had these debates, about the blue envelope and you name it. You called it UWV and there are perhaps more examples where it can just do better. It's him in the way you communicate, and it's him in offering the possibilities and rights a citizen has to use that other route as well. So my attitude is one of them: if such examples occur, I would like to improve them in practice. Of course, I do this together with colleagues in the cabinet, because the UWV is not under my direct responsibility. Mrs Özütok, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Futselaar asked the following questions: the cabinet response to the opinion of the Council of State states that it is still being considered how more safeguards can be included in the Awb. I said something about this in connection with the Electronic Administrative Traffic Bill, which was submitted to the Chamber in July and which will be dealt with. It gives citizens and businesses the right to do digital business with the government. They also have the choice to communicate with the government on paper, so it's the same, aligned right. That bill contains safeguards in case citizens choose the digital road. Following the Council of State Advice, the citizens' perspective in the legislative proposal has been further strengthened. The bill also includes a duty of care for public authorities to provide support for public communication. In my view, this is really at the heart of the inclusion we are talking about. That is what we are now going to translate into legislation. Mrs Özütok asked about the implementation of the recommendation for people who are not digitally skilled or unable to participate. I have just said that we have opened information points. Furthermore, low-literate students are currently supported with the program Tel along with Language, together with the Ministry of OCW, in learning digital skills. I was allowed to attend that myself in Breda, in the library. The results are also very positive. That is a combination: people have to be open to it and they have to want it, but then they have the luggage to do it digitally. They often think it is a simplification. Once you figure it out, you'll understand, like Cruijff said, or something. I think that was quite translated, but that's the way it is. That's age-independent, but people do need help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u48	It is good that these information points are there, but my only question is: are they also being extended to other municipalities or are they remaining specific in a particular region? That's what I'd like to know from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u49	We just happened to start in Limburg, around the corner from me, but that really is a coincidence. They are being rolled out all over the Netherlands and that is happening right now. As I said, the first results are very positive. There are also a lot of parties involved. That is also the good thing, because it is a one-stop shop for the citizen, a physical window that is not just a window, but also a library, with all the functions that libraries have today. We can simply go there and people are being helped there. Experience has shown that once people are put on the right track, they are able to manage. If they don't, they can come back, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u51	Mrs Özütok also asked about legislation independent of technology, in relation to the rule of law. Those constitutional principles should be secured in the law. We only do technical independent legislation if we can. As I have just said, technology is so fast that, if you describe it in great detail, you should, in a manner of speaking, have to go to the Chamber every year with a change of law. We do not want that, of course, but we do want to guarantee those principles, those principles. So we'll see in which cases that can or can't be done. An example of a formal law that we have submitted on the main lines is the Digital Government Act, which is currently pending before the Chamber. One could say that this is actually a basic law, which allows, on the basis of lower regulation and delegation provisions, flexibility to respond to practical changes in technology, without violating those fundamental principles, those constitutional principles. We'll have to do that more often. Of course, it is often not the level of detail we are used to, but it gives us the opportunity to be adaptive and adapt to changed circumstances. Then we come to the guard dogs department and the questions that have been asked about that. About algorithms, I just told you, they're of all times. Precisely because they become more complex, they sometimes become a bit mysterious, because what lies behind it? Again, if there are indications of wrong applications or of algorithms that are wrongly assembled, citizens who feel damaged can now report to the existing supervisors. For example, for questions and complaints concerning the processing of personal data in algorithms, you can contact the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I have previously indicated that I am having research conducted into the way in which algorithm usage is monitored by governments. I'm also willing to see how we could do this better. Without making the move to the solution at once, I feel quite comfortable with this question. Maybe we should focus on this. And does that also have a cleansing effect? The fact that there is, for example, an Authority Personal Data and that there is a GDPR means that all kinds of parties dealing with personal data relate and behave accordingly. That's what you want. You want awareness and transparency. You want to be accountable. Such a hotline where citizens or others can go can contribute to things that are not going well. I am prepared to include that more specific question about the hotline for all governments in that investigation. Mr Verhoeven also asked if I am going to lay down the code of good public administration in legislation. That code provides guidelines for governing all government organisations. It is explicitly a code of conduct, which does not lend itself directly to legislative transposition. This also applies to the updated code with more attention to digitisation, which I will send to your Chamber at the end of this year or early next year. So I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u52	This is perhaps a good time for a very specific question that I have left on the Council of State's opinion. It states that you should interpret the principle of good governance more strictly. In fact, every decision you make, you should name what the algorithm is behind it and what datasets were used for it. For example, if I apply for student funding, DUO says to me something like: we have looked in the Municipal Basic Administration, you are Dutch citizen, you are old enough and we have been told from a university that you are registered. Is that included in the code of conduct? How am I supposed to imagine that? This is a very concrete recommendation which may not be easy to implement, but it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u53	It is also a clear recommendation; in any case. Whether it's easy to execute is the question. I say to Mr Futselaar that I will return to that in the letters that will reach the Chamber. Mr Van der Molen asked whether the property rights to data should be regulated in the law. That seems logical and sympathetic in itself, because you could say that a given belongs to a natural person. In the case of personal data, however, this is not a workable concept. The citizen does not have full control over this, because he is not the controller of the data, although he is in charge of it. So perhaps it makes more sense to talk about rights, such as access and correction, so the possibility of correcting things that are wrong. That's often already legally secured. There is still a possibility. If you want a whole exegesis on the more fundamental discussion whether or not data could be owned, then I would like to come back to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u54	I understand the Secretary of State. As far as the CDA is concerned, there is always a specific role for the government in the future. It should be able to work with your data in all cases. You can't just avoid it from the government, if only because you're the victim of it and then the government can't function against you. But behind that lies the story of the Council of State about the relationship between the government and the citizen, but also, in my opinion, the citizen and private parties in the data. I would therefore like to comment on the proposal from the Secretary of State that he should go into this further. Hopefully, he will do so, and there I ask for a commitment from the Secretary of State for the purpose I have outlined, namely whether our Civil Code is sufficiently structured to make this whole fundamental choice. 'Cause who owns those personal data? That is a fundamental choice. That the government has a specific place, I can only underline after the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u55	Certainly, I make that commitment, including within the framework of the Civil Code. It is a fundamental choice, but much more important is that it is possible to correct if your data has gone wrong somewhere or are incomplete. It shouldn't be so. There are examples from the past that, on the basis of the data that are wrong in systems and sometimes they don't even know that is the case, for example, people could no longer derive rights from supplements or whatever. That's what you're trying to prevent. That's the most important thing. The other discussion is more fundamental, but I am prepared to explain this again in the direction of the Chamber. Mr Middendorp asked if I could see how MyGovernment could become a platform for citizens to get in touch with the government. At the moment we are looking at how we can permanently improve MyGovernment, but perhaps not yet in the way Mr Middendorp would like. In the updated version of NL DIGIbeter a passage on personal services is included with the path for the further development of MyGovernment. This development takes place with a method that ensures step by step the improvement of that portal, as we discussed earlier. That is important because we want our citizens, our customers, those who use My Government, to be properly served. We have spoken before about the wishes that still exist to make that better. I can't just promise that. I'm gonna have to see how we can do that. I'd like to inform you about that, but there's still a lot to be done. So it's not something that's arranged after noon. I really think this is an example you're saying: we'd like to get out of that, so let's see how far we're going to get to make the whole system, which still has to work, more interactive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u56	Mr Middendorp, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u57	That sounds good. I am particularly concerned about the possibility of responding as a citizen via that portal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u58	Yes, that was clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u60	Mr Middendorp also wondered whether I could comment on the single source concept, which is used in Estonia. In fact, it is already part of our basic registration system. I would like to come back to that in the consultation on the direction of data, which is scheduled for 17 October. Mr Verhoeven wondered about the five-point motion. I remember saying in the debate that it was not an exhaustive list as far as I was concerned, but Mr Verhoeven thought this was his top five: transparency, flexibility, expertise, humanity and data protection. In the actualization of NL DIGIbeter dated 3 July, just before the summer, I brought these principles with me. So we are taking these with us now, but not exhaustively, in the development of the digital government. Mr Verhoeven's motion has, as it were, been confirmed above my doorpost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u61	You have a question about that, Mr. Middendorp?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u62	Not about the doorpost of the Secretary of State and what Mr Verhoeven is doing there, but that sounds honorable. I had another question about the previous point. I look forward to the meeting on 17 October which the Secretary of State mentions, but my question was another. We just talked about ownership of data. That online identity, which the Council of State is also talking about, has one source point. The Secretary of State has said that this is actually already there, but not always quite, I understand. About the digital vault that could be part of such an online identity, I asked if the Secretary of State also thinks that you do not need to change any property rights at all, but that you could simply build them and keep all the rights and obligations that exist around personal data the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u63	These are two parallel discussions; one on the digital safe and the other on Mr Van der Molen's comment. Indeed, it is not that it is inextricably linked to the other. The question of ownership - who is the property of the data - is not a sta-in-the-way or whatever for this solution that Mr Middendorp proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u64	That is important because I understood from the letter of 11 July that the discussion on property rights would stand in the way of building such an online identity, as proposed by VVD and D66. It is good to hear the clarification in this sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u65	Perhaps it is appropriate to take this point from Mr Middendorp in the undertaking I made to Mr Van der Molen in this regard. Then there is Mrs Özütok's question about the WRR report that came out yesterday. That WRR report is particularly defensive, how we can protect ourselves, and falls under the responsibility of the Minister of JenV. He will also coordinate the reaction with other directors and let them know when he informs the Chamber. I don't have any information on that right now. Finally. There are a number of members who have commented on the BIT, the ICT Test Office. There was a debate about eternity and temporality and whether you could change it. In any case, let me make it clear that BIT is an essential element for me, as I said in previous debates, as long as we do not have the ICT projects at the level we want them to be at. This ICT testing agency is a very important tool for me to ensure that we can achieve this improvement in the digital government and in ICT projects. That was a wish of the Chamber, but I am now responsible for BIT and for the system in which BIT operates. I cannot hide the fact that I have sent a lot of letters to fellow executives who did not like them. They were drawn up by BIT officials, and that may not have made officials of those ministries happy either. But that is not very relevant, because what matters is: do they play a role in ensuring that we are all going to do better? That's exactly how I feel. We are going to have that discussion, because the President was right to say that there will be another debate on this and I have been asked to comment on it, but I would like to say here that BIT plays a very important role. And if Mr Verhoeven says that BIT is systematically being opposed, that is something I do not recognize or recognise. But that's how it used to be at school when you got a bad grade for a particular job: then maybe you liked the teacher or teacher less. Being the messenger doesn't make you popular sometimes. This may be the same with reports from the Court of Auditors or other audit services, but they do have a function. I'm in front of the BIT. I also mentioned earlier that the duration of the institution has been temporarily extended to allow for the debate and the options. You will soon receive a letter with scenarios. Mr Middendorp asked for this earlier. So I will come back to that in detail, but I would like to correct something here: there is no official from my ministry who has opposed the BIT. 'Cause I'd be very sorry to hear that. I've never turned a point or a comma into a BIT opinion. I've never been advised by BZK officials to do that. This has been handled extremely prudently. And in anticipation of that debate that we are about to have, I think it is important to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u66	So much for the BIT? I understand. Then Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u67	I understand that the Secretary of State says that, and I also know him as someone who says that in good conscience, but then I ask him: what does he think of the coverage in NRC? This was not just about the Ministry of the Interior and its officials, but in general it was much more about the culture that is involved in order to experience the advice of the BIT in a certain way as unpleasant, not to be happy with it and not to make the choices that are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u68	That is also what you asked for in your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u69	That's right. Anyway, the Secretary of State is narrowing it down a little bit: my officials are not doing this. Well, I would definitely accept that, because otherwise the Secretary of State wouldn't say so. But I found that message in the NRC, and also earlier situations where there are examples of people who have left, rather disturbing. Things have happened anyway. In general terms, then, I would like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about this, because that is not the way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u70	I wrote letters about the situation at BIT. I have explained in detail what the situation is. People have quit. We need new people. There are human shortages. It is complicated to find good people in the field of ICT as a government at the moment, especially when it comes to such an ICT testing agency, where a little more is expected if you want to oversee these projects. Look, the feeling of people that they're not happy, I can't take it away. That can happen if you get a bad report. Or you're working on a project that you believe in yourself, and then there's a Bureau ICT review that says: you better start over, because this isn't gonna be a success. I understand that, but then we need to have a substantive discussion on how to better launch these projects. What I just said, I repeat, I have never modified or modified a report. The only thing that has happened, and perhaps NRC also points out, is that I asked the question in the evaluation that was being prepared: is that research you have done sufficiently representative? I didn't ask to make the conclusions better, but because before the report went to the Chamber, I wanted to make sure it was sufficiently representative. There's been a discussion about that. Moreover, I have fully informed the Chamber of what I thought about this, including in the letters. So I reported everything I had to report on that. But I can't take away the fact that not everyone is happy with the BIT. No, I'm sure you will. No doubt people will not be happy with the BIT. But I'm in front of that BIT. I'm in front of the system, too. I'm responsible for that. And the people of BIT stand for their reports. And we're going to talk even further about how we're going to do that in the future. Those scenarios are being worked out. Very soon you will receive a letter on this subject. I am therefore looking forward to the debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u72	Actually, I was at the finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u73	I may have missed something, but I had asked how we deal with errors in basic registrations. And on the issue of ownership of data, the Secretary of State has already said something, but I referred to an earlier opinion of the Court of Auditors from a number of years ago. He said: we need someone who can make corrections to that, so that it can be corrected if something goes wrong in a basic registration and people get hurt. The cabinet then reacted positively to that proposal. Now the Court of Auditors has given the Court this opinion again, because we did not want to be there yet. That's why I asked the Secretary of State if we're really gonna set up a system like this. Or does the Ministry now take the view that that would no longer be appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u74	I suggest I come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u75	Fine. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be right back on that last point. The Secretary of State does have a commitment on that point of the Civil Code and the ownership of data. How are we supposed to handle that? This is a fundamental question that also arises in the relationship between citizens and government. But the specific problem that citizens face is that there are so many systems and registrations. As a result, an error in one place can cause problems in other places. When I read Minister Ollongren's letter in this way, we have now found a possibility for basic registrations that are about geo, about where you live and all that data, but not yet for the registration of personal data, data on income and other data. That is precisely the data in the administration that people can encounter with major problems. The Court of Auditors has said in the past that we need to have something in between, a kind of platform that can correct problems, correct data, and that can provide citizens with a solution to the problems they face. So I repeat that question in my second term. I had also prepared a motion for a resolution on this. I will therefore have to submit it now, in case the State Secretary's answer is 'no'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that citizens are not to blame for errors in basic registrations;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to set up an authoritative central hotline where citizens/registered people can report and solve problems with basic registrations;]] [[considers that this hotline should be able to actively accompany and support the correction or correction of incorrect data;]] [[Calls on the Government to set up an authoritative central hotline for reporting and resolving basic registration issues and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before 1 December 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u77	If the Secretary of State nevertheless indicates that he intends to bring this action, I can always hold that motion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate between all the watchdogs by........................................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, I am very pleased with the clarification on the online identity. I am very keen to see if we can move MijnGovernment.nl towards a very important point, namely that the digital government not only sends to citizens, but also that messages from those citizens can come back. I would like to table the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas citizens receive messages from government organisations via MijnGovernment.nl and have access to personal data;]] [[whereas on MijnOverheid.nl only questions about the functioning of the website MijnOverheid.nl can be asked;]] [[Considers that the digital age offers many opportunities for citizens and government when it comes to having mutual contact;]] [[calls on the government to investigate how MijnGovernment.nl can become a platform where citizens can interact digitally with the government, in the sense that they can ask questions to the government, send suggestions and respond to government messages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Middendorp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-631]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u80	It's something tonight. Well, I thought it was a good debate, too. We are still having several debates in the Chamber over the coming period, about the BIT and also about cyber security, in which we received yesterday's advice from the WRR......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u81	And they couldn't have been merged?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u82	No, Mr. Chairman. That would be the same as bringing together debates on Groningengas and sustainability into one debate. Digitisation is a broad and diverse subject. You'll hear a lot about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u83	Yes. You did defend it very well, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u84	I have a motion and I will explain it to you in a moment, but in view of the time I submit it first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas algorithms are increasingly used for automatic decision-making by governments and public authorities;]] [[Whereas the use of these algorithms and the underlying data files may entail the risk of unequal treatment and exclusion;]] [[Whereas the Government does not have a clear view of the development and deployment of all algorithms by these authorities and public authorities;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives has declared itself in favour of independent monitoring of algorithms and that the Cabinet is now preparing a proposal for them;]] [[calls on the government to include a reporting obligation for major algorithms and to inform the House of Representatives about this for the relevant budget treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-632]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u85	Moreover, the Secretary of State has already taken a major step in this direction, just now in his reply. I am grateful to him for that, but he was talking about a hotline and I really want it to be a duty to report. Hence the motion. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank you once again for the tight leadership of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u86	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. Finally, Mr Futselaar has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying and for addressing the colleagues of the UWV. I brought you text and I found a spelling error in it, so you can have a double conversation. Perhaps I could ask the Commissioner to hand over that text to you, because I know that the President will be angry if I do it directly. In addition, a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are high thresholds for many public authorities when they cannot or do not want to communicate via digital means;]] [[Whereas good service provision is only possible if people are able to get in touch with public authorities in an easily accessible way;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is the possibility of low-threshold human contact at any public authority and also offered in a way other than digital communication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-633]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u89	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I'll see if the Secretary of State can respond immediately. He needs five minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting. Mr. Futzelaar, you really can't talk to the Secretary of State if I haven't suspended yet. I haven't done that yet. I'm going to suspend now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u90	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Molen owed an answer to a question which had already been answered by the Minister of BZK in response to the report of the General Court. Mr Van der Molen's request saw an authoritative central hotline for solving problems with basic registrations. His motion calls on the Chamber to inform it before 1 December. I have previously promised the House of Representatives that cooperation between Solving Teams of various organizations can and must be improved. So I would like to examine the feasibility of a joint solution team for data-related problem cases, but to the question put by Mr Van der Molen in the motion, in part No. 630, I can't meet right now. So I have to discourage this motion. The Middendorp motion in part No. 631 asks the government to investigate how MyGovernment can become a platform where citizens can interact digitally with the government. In reply to Mr Middendorp's question, I have already indicated that this is part of our permanent development, so I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 632 Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Molen therefore request that a reporting obligation be set up, not a hotline, but a reporting obligation for far-reaching algorithms and that the Court be informed of this for the relevant budget treatment. That'll be somewhere in early October. The guidelines sent to you next month by the Minister for Legal Protection deal with the way in which governments should make far-reaching algorithms explainable and auditable. In addition, I am prepared to take into account in the research how this can be better done around supervisors who now have an overview of it, so that we can see how this can all be done better. Unfortunately, that would not be possible until before Christmas. So that is not going to work for the budget. If that is not a problem for Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Molen, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, otherwise I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u92	Mr Verhoeven, do you have a question about the motion in part No. 632?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u93	We will then accept that, but since June of last year I have often heard from the cabinet that there was still time and that letters were needed. I get that. That is what I said in my speech, but I would ask the Secretary of State to put a real pace behind it, also in coordination with the other ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u94	I say that to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u95	I understand, so it's okay, but then I hope to judge Chamber, because it's every time "a few months this" and "a few months that." If you add that up, you'll soon be on a few years, and algorithms will go faster than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u96	When I was on Mr Verhoeven's side, I was always very impatient with this sort of thing, so I can totally imagine it. I fully understand it, and I am really going to do my best so that you can at least get it by the end of the year. Finally. The Futselaar/Van Raak motion in part No. I think 633 is extremely sympathetic, let me add, but at the moment there is a legislative proposal to amend the Awb before the House of Representatives. It states that, depending on the nature of the service and the target group, the public authority must be able to determine how it does so. The Awb requires support for administrative traffic. That is in the spirit of this motion, but the public authority itself decides how. So that's regulated by the law. It's ahead of the Chamber now. I would suggest to Mr Futselaar that the motion be retained and that the content of his motion be included in that legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u97	I won't do that. I propose that we put the motion to the vote, also because the opinion of the Council of State on which we are discussing today stresses the importance of having unity in public policy, without giving any public authority the freedom to do so. So I prefer to trade in the spirit of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u98	Okay, you're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u99	We also had the idea that we are acting in the spirit of the Council of State, because it becomes mandatory for governments. Only the way in which governments regulate this is up to the local authorities or authorities themselves. So there's the difference. However, if Mr Futselaar does not wish to hold his motion, I must advise against her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-26.u101	We will not vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday, because then it will be Princess' Day, but on Tuesday, 24 September. I thank the Secretary of State, the MPs and the staff, and I close the meeting.
