ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u1	We will continue with the next debate, the debate on a data breach in youth care. I am looking for the first speaker, Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. We really should have started almost ten minutes ago. I don't see her. I shall now give the floor to the second speaker, Mr Edgar Mulder of the Party for Freedom. The floor is up to him. The first speaker is now reporting. You must come this way immediately, Mrs Westerveld. Turn right. Anyone can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Suppose you were abused by your father. Every time you came home with an "F", you got punched. If you didn't put the lid back on the peanut butter jar, you got punched. You left your shoes in the hallway: clapping. This made you flee home as much as possible. When you were 13, you were on the street, when you were 14, you were drinking, when you were 15, and when you were 16, you were arrested for shoplifting. It's getting better by now. You go back to school and get enough there. At home sometimes someone comes to talk, which makes your relationship with your parents better. Mr. Chairman. This could just be a real story from a family that pretends to be nothing to the outside world, but which is very well known in youth care country, because all the nasty events, abuse, but also drinking and drug use and shoplifting are kept in a file. Suppose this file is no longer behind a security code on a hard drive, but is simply on a public website, linked to your name and address, along with the stories of thousands of other children. Mr. Chairman. It would be disastrous for this family if suddenly classmates and neighbors knew their most sensitive secrets. And the Internet doesn't forget anything. So even if someone is an adult, stories from the past can always haunt him or her. This is a huge breach of privacy, but also a breach of trust. Because young people must be able to assume that their data is safe with youth care providers, especially when it comes to confidential and often painful data. This could have really happened, because last week we read at RTL News that thousands of children's files had been leaked from youth care. It describes in detail how a young girl is sexually abused. Problems with drugs are described and stories about neglect and mental disorders. They weren't hackers sitting in an attic for nights to invade the systems. It was possible simply to buy a domain name for a few euros. Fortunately, both the whistleblowers and RTL have handled the files carefully. But Imagine if this had ended differently. Therefore, the following questions. How did this happen? More importantly, how can we prevent this from happening in other institutions in the future? Are there any other institutions that have reported a similar data breach? Can the Minister rule out the fact that youth care files have fallen into the wrong hands? Is the preventive purchase of other old domain names the solution? Is this done with all the domain names of former care settings, or only with domain names of settings that are connected to Z-CERT? In short, is the privacy of all young people in child care now guaranteed? Can the Minister guarantee that this will not happen again? Mr. Chairman. Institutions must, of course, have their own ICT in order, but the Minister can support them. This also happens, via Z-CERT, expertise centre in the field of cybersecurity in healthcare. The Minister is now asking youth aid and youth protection institutions to join. But on the website we see that these services are only available for hospitals and ggz institutions. So how about this? My colleague, Mr Ellemeet, asked to explore a few months ago whether participation in Z-CERT could be made compulsory. Is this case a reason to speed up its motion or to proceed with an obligation? Mr. Chairman. Not only did things go wrong here, because it was sloppy with a domain name, but it also turns out that personal data and sometimes entire files were sent unprotected by e-mail. How is the Minister going to ensure that people in the workplace know how to handle this data? Indeed, I can well imagine that high workload sometimes leads to speed going beyond privacy-conscious action. Mr. Chairman. One user-friendly and unambiguous system that can help employees view, update and send files. This reduces the workload and reduces the risk of damaging privacy. Not every setting then has to invent the wheel itself. I'd like a response from the Minister. How does he feel about this? Where unauthorized people now had access to thousands of young people's files, it is paradoxical that young people do not always have access to their own data. I hear stories from young people who spend months trying to get their files and from cases where access is simply refused. How does the Minister feel about that? Does he agree with us that this is very strange and also very undesirable? Does he know how often young people don't get access to their files? Does he want to help young people who run into this? Mr President, I shall conclude. I hope there are two things that come out of this debate. I hope, on the one hand, that it will improve the protection of young people's files and, on the other hand, that young people themselves will have greater access to their own data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. As already announced, Mr Edgar Mulder of the Party for Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u4	Evil; the PVV can't call it any different. More than 3,000 files of vulnerable children are basically on the streets, with details of abuse, abuse, neglect and so on. A quarter of the children are young people over 12 years old. What if these data had fallen into malicious hands or are still coming? What if this ends up on social media? Think of the consequences such as extortion, blackmail and threat and even the despair of these children! A horror scenario. It is not just medical files, but also internal emails and voice mail messages, audio files in which healthcare professionals discuss problems, anything without security, without encryption or even a password to lock access to the files. Nothing at all. Kindergarten level. There is a failure in the field of ICT, but also, of course, human failure. Mr. Chairman. All the data show that this organisation, which together calls itself Safe Central Netherlands, has a totally wrong handling of medical data. There is no sense of privacy, no sense of security, and apparently no sense of the consequences for vulnerable young people. Since 2016, the GDPR has been in force, the General Data Protection Regulation, and therefore an institution must also have a data protection officer. How does the Minister monitor this regulation? Does Together Safe Central Netherlands have such an official? And what about the other youth care agencies in the Netherlands? Is the Minister prepared to review their ICT and communication security policies for all youth care agencies? If not, I'd like to know why. Mr. Chairman. It is really strange and incredible that we are having this debate now, in 2019. We can go to Mars and do that, but we can't secure a file. It is precisely in healthcare that ICT security should be optimal, not only because data is the new oil, but above all because patient data should not be on the streets. The PVV therefore does not understand the reaction of Minister De Jonge, who writes in his letter of 15 April that it is all very bad, but that the solution would be in a subscription to Z-CERT. Everyone has to subscribe to Z-CERT. Z-CERT appears six times in the entire letter from the minister. The PVV finds this strange, because ICT is supposed to work preventively, right? But Z-CERT is a fire department. We must stop it from burning, instead of making arrangements so that we can put out quickly. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As far as PVV is concerned, the Minister therefore puts this institution under enhanced supervision until it has been demonstrated that the children's privacy is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr. Chairman. A mistake at the Youth Services Office has leaked medical records of thousands of vulnerable children. That's extremely dangerous. I just thought it was quite cynical that this happened at the Youth Office, now that their new name is SAVE. If these data had actually fallen into the wrong hands, the consequences would not have been seen. Children who have experienced terrible things like abuse or sexual abuse must always be able to tell their story in confidence. But they must also be able to rely on their story to be kept safe. It's about the lives of very vulnerable young people. Their data must be protected and protected to the highest level. Mr. Chairman. It is really serious when an old website that is closed, is released and so much data becomes accessible, but apparently it was also very common for the Bureau of Youth Services in Utrecht to send children's files by e-mail in plain text. How can the Minister explain that? How can such a basic thing go wrong with such an organization? It is teeming in the care of data leaks: in youth care, hospital care and ggz. But other sectors are also entitled to believe in it. Look at today's news. The CBR stores medical data in a completely obsolete system with Windows XP. Medical data is stored in a system that has not been updated for years. Healthcare organisations are obliged to report any data leaks to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, but if they have been messy with their data traffic, it will not be seen, of course, until it goes wrong. Then it'll be reported. Is the Personal Data Authority capable of properly performing its tasks in the care sector? That is also my question to the Minister: is the authority not too dependent on notifications from the sector itself? Wouldn't it be a good idea for the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Health and Youth Inspectorate to explore options to strengthen the monitoring and control of data protection in healthcare so that we can prevent data leaks instead of always running behind the facts? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Can we really rely on all those organisations in the care sector, big and small, to protect their data in a good way? Shouldn't the regulators and the minister be watching that much more? The fact that we are here tonight with Minister De Jonge and not with his colleague Bruins also shows how fragmented ICT is in the government. Between ministries... in a ministry it's already complicated. Let alone between thousands of organizations and caregivers in the care sector. What steps has the Minister taken towards other providers of youth care? Who's gonna report back to me and make sure everything's okay? Or are we not going to find out until it's gone wrong again? And does his call to investigate his own data security also apply to other sectors of care? How is he going to monitor that? Who's gonna make this happen? What does the Minister think of the option of working with industry organisations, cybersecurity experts and ethical hackers to carry out cross-checking and wide-ranging hacking tests at healthcare organisations, then at a large institution, then at a small self-employed person? Go and try it, of course, without spreading the medical data and by seeing as little as possible. Why don't you go and test our position? I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. Finally. If healthcare organisations indicate that data security is a priority, we do not see enough of this. Unfortunately, there is no longer any mention of an incident when you see how many places in the care are going wrong at the moment. It is therefore strange that hospitals and other healthcare providers are not designated as providers of essential services in the Cybersecurity Act. This does not give caregivers and patients the safety and security they need. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether these healthcare providers can still be designated as a provider of an essential service? Because if our health care is no longer an essential service, then I wonder what it is. Mr. Chairman. The leaking of medical records could destroy lives. This situation is extremely serious. What measures will the Minister take to ensure that data traffic in care is secured and checked at the highest possible level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u7	Thank you. Then Mrs. Kooten-Arissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mr President. How nice it would be if we could talk today about an incident, that someone had forgotten to register the domain name, that the data had not really come out on the street or that the error had been corrected; end well, all right. But reality is different: we need to talk about structural errors in dealing with privacy and data in healthcare. The concern is the sector with the most data leaks. The examples of abuses are numerous: improper access to patient records in the hospital, hackers blackmailing young people with information that young people thought they shared online in confidence with professional helpers, hundreds of thousands of medical records that end up in the hands of Google and now the very sensitive information of nearly 3,000 vulnerable young people, which was freely available. All this in the past six months. Today it was announced that at the CBR 1 million medical records have been stored in a database that hasn't had any security updates in nine years. Thus, the data which require and deserve the highest level of protection and care is structurally wrong. With a little public information available, an individual can already be traced. Given the sensitivity of this information, that should not happen. Period. But it is happening, because the infrastructure on which it is trusted is structuralally flawed. If the infrastructure is designed to share medical data in plain text via unprotected e-mail, if students with a side job have almost unlimited access to medical records or if data is open to hackers, then there is a lack of infrastructure and data protection. As far as we are concerned, we are discussing this today, with all due respect to the Deputy Prime Minister, with the wrong minister. It is in fact his colleague, the Minister for Medical Care, who recently sent this Chamber a letter explaining how he wants to digitize the entire healthcare sector. The line outlined in it is not one that leads to the belief that such incidents will no longer have to be experienced in the future. Because we will always have to deal with human mistakes, it is important to choose infrastructure that allows for as little errors, leaks and abuses as possible. That is why it is unwise that we still rely on, for example, the National Switchpoint. The infrastructure, which was rejected in 2011 incredibly harshly, opens up the data of millions of people to far more people than needed: GPs, pharmacists, healthcare professionals and their hospital staff will be able to access that data soon. Eight years later, this system still appears to be incompatible with privacy interests, but it has not yet been buried. It has even been named "uncontested building block" by the sector. A privacy website recently wrote in response to the impasse in which the minister ended up around the granting of permission, because it is now either too general or too unenforceable, that it was time to think about a world without the LSP; I support that statement. As it is unsafe to send files via unprotected mail, it is also unsafe to digitize the entire care based on a system that does not encrypt data from sender to recipient, which has no specification for the authorisation to ensure that your file is only open to those who are entitled to it and managed by an American company that can be forced by national security legislation there at any time to submit all data without notifying any Dutch party. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State recently criticised the way in which the Dutch government is shaping its policy. Stakeholders would have too much influence on the way legislation is implemented. The Minister is now proposing mandatory digitalisation of all care, based on the infrastructure unanimously voted away by the Senate and deemed incompatible with privacy law by privacy organisations, which have no interest in doing so. We also read that the Minister's intention is to digitise at a rapid rate and not to start with a test but to use it as much as possible. I therefore call on the Chamber and the Minister to rethink this. Mr. Chairman. Digitisation can help in healthcare, but if we digitize then it must be on a voluntary basis; it must not be an obligation. And if one decides to participate voluntarily, it must be through an infrastructure that guarantees the highest level of privacy and data protection. Finally, Mr President. Can the Minister state what's going on with the investigation of end-to-end encryption in healthcare, as requested in my adopted motion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you. Then Mrs. Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u10	Mr. Chairman. It's a nightmare, a nightmare that woke up some young people and their parents in the last week. For imagine that strange people can read the personal story, the secrets and the private situation of these young people, because people they trusted have not dealt sloppyly with that story and have not applied the safety rules. It's about sensitive stories that can now wander around somewhere. Computers and ICT can bring a lot of convenience, but that doesn't mean that professionals can stop thinking and stop using their common sense. You don't leave a diary broken open at the front desk. You don't copy private stories and then hand them out. So you are also very careful about the information you hear from young people and their parents. Mr. Chairman. I don't think there's anyone in this room who didn't freak out. We have already heard a number of contributions. That is why it is good that we are having this debate now. There are three things I want to know about this minister today. First of all, it concerns the security of the files with similar youth aid organisations. I also want to know why the current legislation and regulations are apparently not put into practice. Finally, I have questions about the responsibilities and monitoring of the security of that data. First of all, I would like to ask this Minister what is true of the reports from SAVE Central Netherlands. The letter we received yesterday from the Minister states that SAVE itself is investigating the extent of the leak. When will the results of this study be available? And can't do that any faster, I'd like to say right now. What did SAVE say to those children, young people and parents who are potentially victims of this data breach? What is this minister doing to give young people in the country the assurance that their files and stories are safe? I also assume that last week this Minister was immediately informed about data security at similar youth aid institutions. I would like to hear what he has done and is doing to ensure that young people in the Netherlands can trust that their stories are safe and remain in the hands and files of those aid workers. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, I want to express my disbelief about all the laws and rules we have adopted here and the fact that it seems that it is not always possible to put them into practice. I really don't believe that. Yet you see it happening. What is this minister going to do to ensure that professionals working in youth aid can actually do something with the rules we have, every day, with every file, with every story and in contact with every colleague, just anytime and anywhere? The minister wrote in his letter about the Z-CERT connection. I think it's a difficult name, too, I must say. He is considering whether it might become compulsory by the summer, on the initiative of the Ellemeet motion. I expect the Minister to do a little more action and action instead of research. I'd like a response. Finally, the simplicity and supervision of responsibilities. I don't think it's easy. Who is responsible for data security, and who can contact the responsible people and authorities if necessary and force them to improve? It seems clear to me that the board of an organisation is responsible for implementing privacy laws and regulations. I also think it is clear that the board must ensure that its employees know how to work well, safely and trusted. But what if that doesn't seem to work out well enough? What's that? Is this the case with the Supervisory Board, the College of Mayors and aldermen involved, the inspection, the Minister or the Personal Data Authority? And if I don't get it right, how are all these kids and their parents supposed to understand? Who's to talk about when things go wrong? Can the Minister promise that he'll clear up the surveillance? Who are they supposed to report to, the young people who are afraid that their stories are no longer safe? Mr. Chairman. This debate should help to raise awareness of the safety and trust that youth workers have to offer and which is now in doubt. This debate must above all ensure that children and young people can tell their stories in confidence so that they can receive appropriate help. That confidence should not be damaged, but it did last week. I would like to hear from this Minister what these children and young people can expect of him in order to regain that confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u11	There is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u12	I have just made the point that the problem with leaking data is of course that we always find out afterwards that there is a problem. If a healthcare institution leaks data, it must report it to the Personal Data Authority and then we all find it horrible. But, of course, that doesn't help us so much. So my question is: doesn't Mrs Tielen agree with the VVD, like the SP, that there should be much more prior monitoring of data security in healthcare institutions and that the inspection or the Dutch Data Protection Authority should check more frequently at institutions on a random basis or in any other way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u13	Mr. Hijink is making a good point. That also has to do with the questions I ask: what is this supervision about and where should you be? The screening of the entire system sounds like something we would all like, but I don't know what we're pulling with it. In essence, I agree with what Mr. Hijink says. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. But what you're saying is "preventing rather than curing" or "what's it called officially? "The pit dampens before the calf drowns," I'm sure of that, too. If that's what you need, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u14	Nor does the inspection check every day. We're not suggesting that either. I suggest that a much more frequent approach is taken to an institution, one time a large hospital and the other time a self-employed psychiatrist, and that is looked at very closely, also in cooperation with ethical hackers, who can do so in a good way, whether that hospital or that hospital is in order for Mr or Mrs safety, and that is then reported publicly, so that if it goes wrong, a warning goes out to other healthcare providers: pay attention, you are under the magnifying glass and if you are not right for each other, then we will report it and then it will be in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u15	This afternoon, by the way, in another debate, we discussed the inspection in detail: what can you do with your risks and signals, and then something happens to them? As far as I'm concerned, you're absolutely right. The question is also: if you feel that security, trust in information and data about you is not properly secured, can you knock on the door somewhere and then someone is watching with you? I think it's very fair that it doesn't happen often, I think we agree, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Raemakers of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr. Chairman. "Angry and scared." "Violence and abuse." "Kicked and beaten." These are words that go back a lot in the files of thousands of often vulnerable children, files that could have just been on the street. It is extremely sensitive information, about an eating disorder, anorexia, depression, sexual abuse or suicide attempts. D66 cannot allow data from vulnerable children to leak so easily. How many kids are afraid their story's gonna be on the street? How many kids won't be able to share their story anymore? And how many kids have less faith in care now? For D66 these are questions that are central today. How does the Minister ensure that all children regain confidence in care? Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the way in which whistleblowers and journalists have dealt with the data breach. They discovered the leak and clearly warned against the vulnerabilities of similar organizations. At the same time, these ethical hackers take into account the potential consequences for the victims. But what if evildoers had used this leak or used it in the future? Last year, the Dutch Data Protection Authority warned us very clearly. Then the AP announced that there are over 3,000 data leaks in the care system. And of the total number of leaks in the government, a third is a leak in the care. That makes the concern the questionable frontrunner. IT experts tell us that it is saddened with data security in the care and that this sector is lagging behind. This was made clear by the basic mistakes made at the Utrecht youth care institution: very sensitive data about young people were emailed around without any form of encryption and outdated domain names were not secured in order to prevent abuse. And now the whistleblowers also warn that there are dozens of organisations where data security is also not in order. In short, this is not an incident but a structural problem. I can only conclude that this Minister has ignored this problem. The minister doesn't seem to have it under control, he's shifting all responsibility. In his letter, the Minister mainly points to the responsibilities of others: Z-CERT, SAVE Central Netherlands and Youth Care Netherlands. But I want to know: what will the Minister himself do? What's he been doing for the past year? I'm not really getting a clue from the facts I requested for today. When it comes to child care, I don't read anything. The word "youth care" doesn't even appear in it. Will the Minister leave this entirely to the municipalities? Just last week, the cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber on the digitisation of patient data, a very important subject. But how can people rely on the data to be handled in this way? As far as D66 is concerned, the Minister is now quickly working on cyber security in the whole area of care. It needs to be put in order before we continue to digitize data exchange. Safety first. I'd like a response. Is the Minister prepared to have hacking tests carried out in all healthcare sectors in collaboration with cybersecurity experts and ethical hackers, as the SP did earlier? Given the high risk of more data leaks and the fact that young people are very vulnerable, is this Minister prepared to examine all youth care institutions in the field of data protection in the very short term? Finally, a number of specific questions. First about Z-CERT, the Care CERT. What has the Minister done to strengthen Z-CERT? Is the Minister prepared to complete the study on the compulsory participation of Z-CERT before the summer? The Minister asked Z-CERT to register all domain names. How many old domain names have been purchased by others? Is it necessary to buy old domains? And specifically youth care. Does the Minister know how many youth care institutions don't encrypt their information, e-mails and voicemails? And what does he do about it? How many youth care institutions have data security policies at all? What happens if there are files on the streets somewhere in the Netherlands? And if they're really gonna be on the street in a minute, how are the victims of such a leak gonna be helped? Are employees of youth care institutions even trained on cyber security, on cyber hygiene? What is the role of the inspection in this? All in all, I expect to hear concrete steps from this Minister today. For a man who loves action plans, it is still anxiously quiet at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u18	Did I just hear Mr Raemakers say that, before the cybersecurity of data in the care is in order, the minister should put his plans on hold? I am thinking, for example, of the PGOs, the patient health environment where everyone in an app can see their own file, or of the discussions we are having about the communication between healthcare institutions where a lot is happening, a nationwide link, as my neighbor has just mentioned. Does Mr Raemakers actually say that we should all freeze that until security is in order? That's what I think he said, and that's a pretty far-reaching step. I wonder if he's serious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u19	Sure. We believe that safety is paramount. And what we saw last week is a very serious assessment of my group. Of course, we share that fact more often in this Chamber. We have made it a point that information in care can be exchanged smarter and better. We also have situations in which someone ends up in an ambulance and the crucial information that is needed then has to be provided by fax. We can't do that anymore in 2019, so we need to change that system. But I think we should put one thing first in this change, and that is security. If we are going to take further steps together in the context of digitalisation, there is absolutely no doubt that one prerequisite must always be met, and that is security. Medical records aren't supposed to be in the hands of people who have nothing to do with it. The answer to the question is actually very clear. For D66 it is very clear: safety first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u20	Yes, that is clear to me too, but the question is always what that means in practice. Does this mean that D66 is saying here: we are now putting on hold the development of the PGAs which the Minister and his colleague Bruins want. The discussions on cooperation between health care institutions will be held until this problem is resolved. Is that what D66 says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u21	I have just asked a number of specific questions to the Minister, who I really think should be taken up by this Minister in the short term. I would very much like to hear if the Minister is prepared to take these steps. It is true that this Minister may be doing a number of things together with the Minister for Medical Care, but this evening we are speaking with the Minister of VWS. This Minister is system responsible and responsible for the Ministry. I want to hear from this minister how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u22	That's not an answer to the question. I asked him: does D66 now think that the development of the PGAs, the patient health environments, as an example and the other developments that are taking place in the field of ICT, should be stopped until this minister can guarantee that the security of medical data is completely in order? Is that what he's saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u23	I think it's obvious. Safety is our pre-condition. So we only want to get on with things like that if the Minister can guarantee us tonight that security is paramount and that the government will do everything in its power to guarantee security first of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u24	This is a beautiful turn of D66, I'd almost say. I found it a bit painful in the referendum, but now I am very happy that D66 has apparently turned on this. This is in stark contrast to the motion put forward by D66 together with the VVD and the CDA on 7 June last year, in which they asked the Minister to speed up the compulsory sharing of medical records in an electronic way and therefore via the LSP. How does this relate to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u25	That's a good question. Data exchange has a positive side and a negative side. At the moment, a great deal of information is being transported in the care sector by fax. This does not help patients in the first place in time, which can mean health risk or harm to the patient. Secondly, you can see that there is a greater risk of medical errors among healthcare workers, because information is shared by fax or by other, almost medieval methods. So, yes, we have to deal with that. I naturally support this motion that the government cannot say in this area either: let us leave that to the care field and we are not going to do anything else to drive it forward. Last year I told Minister Bruins that the Minister also has a role to play in making things better. But also on the negative side of data exchange and the risks that there are, I think that this government should do more about it. This government must do more on the positive side of data protection, but also on the risks. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has already warned several times over the past year about the risks that exist. I want to know from the Minister what he's done about it and whether we're doing enough about it. I have also asked a number of questions with which I would like to say that this should really be a bit stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u26	That's a lot of words, but it's not an answer to my question. My point is that D66 also now says: how can people trust their medical data to be safe? If D66 says that security and trust come first, so absolute security, how can D66 want the sharing of medical data electronically via the LSP, which, according to experts, is not compatible with medical professional secrecy and privacy law, to be made mandatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u27	Two things. Firstly, safety is an absolute prerequisite for every step we take here. I mean, security means data can't fall into the wrong hands. But safety also concerns patient safety. Where there are now situations where outdated techniques create an unsafe situation, we do not agree with that either. Then the second part of my answer. D66 believes that freedom of choice is very important. We want patients to be able to state for themselves what they do and do not consent to. A system of specified consent has been proposed for this purpose. That threatened to sink into a 160-box system. We have said that this should be simpler. There too, we see a task for the government to ensure that every citizen in the Netherlands can choose whether he wants to share patient data at all and if he wants to, which one. We believe that the government should take more steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u28	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Kuik from the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u29	Mr. Chairman. These are very vulnerable, very young children, of which very intimate, very personal and very nasty data have been on the streets. That is, of course, scandalous. I think we agree with the whole House of Representatives on that. The leak is now closed, but we don't know if any damage has occurred, because we simply don't know who had access to this data at what time. It is very good that research has been carried out. I am therefore grateful to the whistleblowers and RTL for doing this research and for the way in which they subsequently protected the data. Because over and over again, it turns out that we need these kinds of investigations to get these kinds of leaks out of the water. While it doesn't actually take rocket science to realize how to keep your data safe, it's very complicated. We all have very complicated legislative proposals. We all have very complicated regulations, and ultimately it's about something as simple as not letting go of a domain name, or not sharing data via WhatsApp or not leaving the data open. In the end, it all comes down to using farmers' senses, even when it comes to sharing information. I therefore have a few simple questions. When this news came out, my first thought was: I hope there is a whole call team at the ministry 24 hours busy calling all healthcare institutions in the Netherlands. I was hoping they'd ask, "What have you been selling lately, have you got a security officer, have you checked if you have a leak like that?" That's the urgency I'm missing right now. A number of investigations are being announced, but I have no guarantee whatsoever that what has now been brought up has not happened anywhere else in the meantime. I saw Amsterdam reporting on its own site "we comply with all the rules on privacy." But what guarantees do I have? What guarantees does the Minister have for that? I don't think any of them, because we simply don't know. That was my first question, Mr President. My second question is: who is responsible at the moment when the same safety goes wrong? Is that the driver of a care facility? What role does the Supervisory Board play in this? At what level are you responsible as an individual and in what way is that taking place? My final question has also been asked by all the other parties. Why do we give care institutions so much freedom when it comes to such sensitive information? Why is it not required to work through a number of information protocols? Whether it's system A or system B or system Z, I don't think that's very relevant. But there really shouldn't be that kind of commitment anymore. Whatever information it concerns, whether it concerns the medical records or the mental files: it should always be in order. I'll finish with that. These were very vulnerable children, who are very dependent on us and on the system and who often feel like a number in the system. They're children who go from caregiver to caregiver, from aid worker to aid worker, and now they turn out to be a number again, because their files are not safe and because they're being pushed through without anyone checking to make sure that happens properly. I find that worrying, disappointing and shameful, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u30	Thank you. The last speaker from the Chamber is Mr Peters of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A data breach at the former Youth Care Office in Utrecht. The most sensitive information of the most vulnerable children has come into the hands of third parties. This may not have the greatest consequences right now, but it depends on how the whistleblowers and in this case RTL4 dealt with the information. Still, it's bad. It's very bad, and I can imagine how juvenile care clients and their parents and family are shocked by this. But also the responsible institutions themselves. Of course, this is the last thing you want as an organization. That is why I immediately asked written questions. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. However, I have some obvious questions. First of all... Can the Minister confirm that this sensitive information from children has really not been released from the streets? You sure no one had any insight into those files? Two. Can the Minister confirm that parents and children have been informed of this and that their possible concerns in this area have been removed? And can the Minister confirm that Mrs Kuiken of the Labour Party also asked that the cause of the data breach is clear and that further leaks are no longer possible? Not here and not in this way with other organizations? Mr. Chairman. No one wants data leaks, certainly not from such sensitive information and certainly not from information that could damage vulnerable children and their families. We want to prevent that, although we can never do it 100%. We want to find and tackle those responsible for this. The PVV wants to put the whole institution under enhanced supervision. That tendency is of course human, but perhaps not necessarily the right one. It is tempting from emotion and involvement from this Chamber to call for the creation of new rules to rule out new leaks, and to ask for 100% guarantee. But the question is whether we can do that. The question is also whether new rules will help and whether they will not simply involve new, additional bureaucracy. We also call that the so-called 'risk rule reflex'. That is why the following three questions are addressed to the Minister. Firstly, are new rules needed to prevent leaks as much as possible? Or, question two, are the current rules and directives really enough, but should they simply be respected? Common sense. Why are we sending flat mails with texts? You don't have to have rules for that; you just don't have to. Or are we dealing in this case with a possibility that has simply not been considered, is the leaking sufficient and is there an incident? I don't believe that, but that's what I'm asking. Mr. Chairman. The call for those responsible or guilty is also human but not necessarily constructive. No one wants these leaks, and certainly not the people assigned to ensure the safety of children. Additional rules, in combination with extra busy professionals, have in the past caused the Maasgirl, for example, to risk-avoidance behavior, additional measures, more ots and an increase in bureaucracy, because professionals wanted to prove that they did not make mistakes in the legal sense. It just hasn't led to better care. The CDA advocates solving the problem, resting and using common sense, and learning rather than punishing. Mr. Chairman. Then the element of privacy. Apart from this case, the importance of handling information properly can hardly be overestimated. Although too much emphasis on privacy, especially in the care sector, should not become an excuse for not working together at all. Here and there it is. We've all been sending this message together, at least since the 1970s, on one family and one plan. But an unhealthy fetish on legality has already made that impossible. You will receive the best possible help for every part problem and not at all the best possible total solution. A deeply cherished wish since the 1970s is simply not possible in this way, even though we call it. It's just not possible. But if an even greater emphasis on misunderstood privacy also stops all aid workers from communicating with each other, then we have really organized the worst of all worlds. Mr. Chairman. It's clear to me. Privacy, and I mean the careful handling of data and information, is of the utmost importance. But the CDA doesn't want new rules in advance. The CDA doesn't want a witch hunt for those responsible. The CDA wants mistakes to be corrected, learned from them and people to take responsibility. For the CDA, careful handling of data and collaboration between professionals goes hand in hand. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u32	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u33	The CDA seems to trivialize the problem. I do not hear all colleagues here arguing for additional rules. I hear colleagues saying that we have to take this seriously. I hear colleagues saying: we want to hear from the Minister whether he can guarantee the privacy of other young people. I would like to ask Mr Peters whether he agrees with me that colleagues should ask the Minister and not call for all kinds of additional rules. 'Cause that suggestion's gonna get woken up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u34	I'm learning, Mr. Chairman, I'm waiting for you now. I didn't do that last time, but I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u35	Then you can wait for hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u36	Okay, let's not do that. I am only partly with you, Mrs Westerveld, I must say, agree. In any case, a guarantee from the Minister can ask that things cannot go wrong. I have heard that several times. Can the Minister guarantee that it won't go wrong again? Well, I'm not the minister, but he just can't. I've heard several people ask: how can we do tests to check? Putting people in the papers if they don't follow the rules? I've even heard someone ask if we can't put the whole institution under curatel. So I only partially agree with you. I'm not downplaying the problem at all, because privacy is important and data needs to be handled carefully. In my view, my only argument is that we should be very careful to conclude that it would require all kinds of new rules. That's the question. I also think that we should be very careful about asking for guarantees, but that we should simply use our common sense, grow a learning organisation and not be behind the rags who will then only make mistakes in the legal sense. We've tried that enough times in the past, but it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u37	It's not nothing that happened. Thousands of children's records are on the street. Privacy-sensitive data. Cases like sexual abuse, abuse and addiction could just lie on the street. Thanks to the actions of a few attentive whistleblowers and RTL News, that has not happened. Surely that should be sufficient reason to put critical questions to the Minister at least here as a Chamber and not to say in advance that there should be no new rules at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u38	No, that's right, Mrs. Westerveld. That is why I asked the Minister whether new rules are needed. But that is a question and not a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u39	It is rightly said that people make mistakes. So does my CDA colleague. We have not called for an institution to be placed under curate, but we have called for enhanced supervision. That seems logical to me, until it has been proven that there is an orderly way of dealing with the privacy of clients. You're talking about common sense. It seems to me that using your common sense is the only way to allow this organisation to act in its own right again if that orderly handling of privacy is guaranteed. You cannot guarantee that no mistakes will be made, but you can solve the current mistakes first and make sure they are secured. I don't think that's more than logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u40	That is why I asked the Minister to confirm that the leak was closed, as I saw in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u41	Fine. I'm suspending until 9:00. Oh, no, you don't. Mr. Raemakers will be coming out of the benches after all. Then there's really something going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u42	Mr Peters says: I ask the Minister if the leak is closed. And that's it. Mr Peters agrees with me that this Minister will also have to do a number of things to prevent this from happening in the future. Does the CDA recognize that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u43	Oh, yeah. Everyone must always be aware of how we deal with these data, and we must all use our common sense. That's why I'm already freaked out by people who put on their website that they comply with all privacy rules. It's all wonderful if you meet those rules, but I want you to show concrete perceptible behavior that indicates you're taking it seriously. So the answer is, of course. I ask that of the Minister, of myself and of every institution. Not only do you have to follow the rules, but you also have to use your common sense so that you deal with sensitive information properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u44	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u45	So the conclusion of today's debate should not, as far as Mr Peters is concerned, be that the leak is closed and that we are therefore done? I get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u46	Yes, of course. That would be very simple. If the leak is closed, it is fine and very nice: then the urgent problem is solved. But the important problem remains. We'll always have to handle that data properly, whether you use system A, B or C. Whatever system you're using, I don't care, as Mrs. Chicken said. You can use them all, but you won't just have to implement them, you have to use them, you have to follow them. You need to make privacy a part of your entire being. I'm talking about safety, of course. It's not an incident in the sense of "leak closed, case closed."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u47	I find it interesting that Mr Peters puts the finger exactly in the right place. You can see that from the reactions from the audience and mine. I don't think anyone has called for extra rules, but they have called for a serious handling of what lies ahead. So I have a question for Mr Peters about two things. It may be that the leak is closed and the Minister can confirm it. I still think it is important, then, that the people in the country, who are now somewhat concerned about the security of their data, should hear from this minister statements that can alleviate their concerns. Even though they may not be guarantees. Does Mr Peters agree with me? That's the first thing. Does Mr Peters agree with me too, and that is the second thing that there must be a place where you can ring the bell, if you really think that despite texts on the website, for example, an organisation is sloppy about personal data?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u48	I agree with Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u49	Well, we're here, aren't we? I'm gonna suspend until 9:00 and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u50	It would be my proposal not to do any night work today, but that's all in your hands. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the contribution of the Chamber in the first term. Thank you for the many questions that have been asked, and rightly so. The data breach discovered last week at SAVE Central Netherlands is a serious matter. Healthcare organisations need to handle personal data carefully. Definitely vulnerable children and their parents should be able to rely on that. The stories you tell and the concerns you share with employees in care must be safe. I think it would be good to answer the questions as follows. In the first block I would like to comment on this particular case. What happened there and how was there acted in this particular case at Together Safe Central Netherlands? In the second block, I would like to address the question of what we can do to strengthen data protection in healthcare as a whole. In the third block I go into the other questions. Mr. Chairman. First the case, the data breach at Together Safe Central Netherlands. A number of groups have asked about the facts of what was discovered last week and about the measures that were subsequently taken. The facts first. In advance, I must say that it is about the facts that we are now familiar with. They are currently being investigated for a reason by both SAVE Central Netherlands, which has the facts investigated internally and externally, as well as the cooperating municipalities in Utrecht, which have an external investigation carried out. In anticipation of the results of these studies, let me tell you what we now know from enquiries with the municipality of Utrecht and with SAVE Midden-Nederland. During the decentralisation of youth care, Bureau Jeugdzorg Utrecht was transformed into SAVE Central Netherlands. The old domain name of the former Bureau Jeugdzorg Utrecht expired in December 2017. In October 2018 that domain name was bought by the detectors. By registering this domain name there was access to files that have been emailed, to internal emails with information about clients and to voicemail messages. The party that bought the domain name has reported itself to RTL News and called the doorbell via RTL. RTL reports a total of 2,700 children. It is important to underline that I do not currently have any indications that those data have been sent to persons other than the whistleblowers and RTL News. Spokesmen from a number of political groups asked: Mr Mulder, Mr Peters and Mrs Westerveld. So right now I have no clue that those data would have been accessed by anyone other than RTL and these whistleblowers. SAVE Central Netherlands has not yet itself determined the number of cases involved and the data that could be consulted. That's what these investigations are for. As I said, it is about an internal investigation and an external investigation. I'm gonna say a little more about that in a minute. They asked what could have caused the domain name to allow others to access what was available in those e-mails. In response to this, I can say that three possibilities may have been at the basis of the data breach. The first possibility is that a tool was used, which was hosted externally, informing employees if anything changes in a file. Old address lists may have been used and emails have been sent to old addresses. The second possibility is that accounts in the SAVE Central Netherlands telephone exchange have sent voicemail messages to old addresses. And a third possibility is that third parties have sent client information to old e-mail addresses. If you then authorize such a domain name and set up a kind of catch-all function, that means that you could indeed access mails. In any case, an internal investigation has been launched into the causes of the data breach, into how clients' files could be transmitted unprotected by e-mail and how those addresses of the old domain name were still in circulation. Were there any address cards? Was there any flyer material, stationery or anything with old addresses on it? Or were there any signatures of e-mails with old addresses on them? That's the internal part of the investigation. What measures have been taken, both by Together Safe Central Netherlands and by the municipality of Utrecht and the Dutch Data Protection Authority, and what has the department done? First, Together Safe Central Netherlands as an institution itself is responsible for complying with the law and ensuring a safe handling of personal data. That institution did a number of things immediately after it was informed. They bought back the domain name and closed the leak. All mail sent to old addresses is therefore received by the organisation Together Safe Central Netherlands itself. A number of Members of Parliament have asked for this. Two. The client, the municipality of Utrecht, has been informed, as should be the case. Three. The data breach has been reported to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, as it should be and as it is required by law. Four. An internal and external investigation into the data breach has been initiated. I mentioned all that internal research, but that external research is about how it was possible to read mails on the old domain. How did that go technically? Is it possible to find out which files have actually become clear? Those are the files that are actually to be regarded as leaks. And can it be found out that this is also important for the response to the questions you have asked, who has access to these files? That is the external research that will be carried out by Fox-IT. Then the clients. A number of questions have also been asked about this. How were they informed? One. On our own website a message has been posted that updates on this issue are regularly provided. Two. A separate e-mail address and a telephone number are available for people with questions and information. Three. Children and families are informed by the organisation via daily contact. The organisation sends letters of information with the official correspondence and keeps track of whether these letters have actually been received per client. In addition, I understand from the municipality of Utrecht that family workers of the local neighbourhood team have been instructed to be alert to questions and concerns of children and parents, who have had to deal with Together Safe Central Netherlands and have concerns about the safety of their data. They may also provide support for conversations about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u52	The minister told me that old domain names were bought up. I asked in my contribution which domain names were bought up. Is that wider? Does this apply to more care institutions that have changed their names and whose old domain name has been purchased? I can imagine that this problem also plays a broader role. It happens that it is now playing at this youth care institution, but it can also play wider with more health care institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u53	I haven't said that yet, but I'm going to say that other domain names have also been purchased. Let me explain how many times that has happened. But here I was talking about the domain name that was bought by the whistleblowers. It was immediately bought back by SAVE Midden-Nederland and thus they could again have the e-mails that might have been sent to an old address. So this is the background and these are the measures taken by SAVE Central Netherlands itself. All this affects the question of responsibility that Mrs Tielen has raised, and rightly so. The first responsibility, of course, lies with the institutions themselves. The second responsibility lies with the municipalities in this case. You could say: the second responsibility lies with clients, namely to ensure that their contractors relate to all legal provisions; I will come back to that in a moment. In this case, the municipality of Utrecht, or its joint Utrecht municipalities, is the client of SAVE Midden-Nederland. The Utrecht municipalities reacted very alertly. They immediately called the board and the supervisory board of the Safe Central Netherlands to account. In addition to the research carried out by SAVE and the research commissioned by SAVE externally by Fox-IT, the 26 Utrecht municipalities concerned are also going to have an independent investigation into how the personal data and privacy are handled at SAVE, and whether there is even more need for intervention. The municipality of Utrecht has also instructed all its contracted healthcare providers, both youth and Wmo, to demonstrate how they ensure that privacy sensitive information from their clients is adequately protected. So not only your Chamber but also city councils, city councils, are on top of it. The debate we are having here tonight will be held tomorrow in the city council in Utrecht. To this end, a letter was sent today by the municipality of Utrecht to the council of Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u54	I hear the minister say that after the organisation itself, the municipality, as sponsor for youth care, is actually the primary responsible for good data security. Now, here's what I'm wondering. We have had a debate this afternoon on abuses in youth care, on how quality is often left behind and the municipality is actually too under-supervised and sometimes really not capable of doing so. Does the Minister really think that municipalities are able to monitor the way in which healthcare institutions, youth care institutions in this case, secure their data? I consider municipalities to be high, but I really wonder if they are capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u55	I believe that this is the first responsibility of the institutions themselves, a second responsibility of the sponsors, a third responsibility of the supervisors and a fourth responsibility of the system responsible. I actually want to look at all the responsibilities in this case. Then, in the second block, I want to look at all the responsibilities for what we can do in the broad sense. I think that, as a client, you may not be able to steer everything, but, for example, by means of contractual provisions, you can steer pretty well towards compliance with safety requirements. That's right. I think so. At the same time, it is true that a municipality, or a client, is in another system that a health care office or a health care provider is not present; you are not standing alongside all healthcare providers when information is exchanged there. In your client role you can indeed strengthen the implementation practice, but with that you cannot carry out that supervision responsibility on your own. That is why I say: it is a primary responsibility for institutions, it is a responsibility for principals, it is a responsibility for supervisors, the AP in the first instance and also a responsibility for the IGJ I come up with all this and it is also a responsibility for the Empire as a system operator. If you want to take those steps in the implementation practice towards security, you can only actually fulfil the responsibility if all four of those responsibilities, you might say, do what is to be expected of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u56	In my opinion, this is precisely what is at the heart of the problem: there are so many layers of responsibility that no one ultimately feels responsible. I suspect that goes for the rest of the healthcare sector as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u57	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u58	So what happens is this. If there's an incident, and if there's a data breach, we'll never find out until after. So I have never heard that before, from an inspection, from the Dutch Data Protection Authority, from a municipality or from anyone else, I have never heard that: we have turned a blind eye to this organisation because there were risks there. So what happens in the care, always? A data breach is reported, and then everyone screams murder and fire. That is, of course, the problem. In my view, we have far too little supervision in advance. We do far too little research at health care institutions on a sample basis: do they have the security in order? That was not the case with this institution either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u59	I'm less gloomy. But I am in a position to assume the various responsibilities and what can be expected per person responsible. I have seen in my own aldermen's practice how you can actually face information security issues and how you can actually send in as a client. I will come back to this in more detail, but an example is the e-mail. We have a national system responsibility in this regard. But a very direct responsibility lies with the client. You can just contract with all the institutions that have a contract with the municipality using secure mail connections. Look how the municipality has acted in this particular case. The municipality not only addressed SAVE Central Netherlands, but then appealed to all its contracted Wmo and youth aid providers to do something with the lessons that can be learned here, to evaluate themselves, to take measures. So that's how you see, I think, that it's necessary for all parties to do what is expected of them on their own playing field and with their own sphere of influence. Employers have a job to do in the direction of their own people. That is the first task. You could also say that this is the easiest task, because it is closest to the real implementation practice. Clients have a task in the direction of these employers. Supervisors have a job to do, but it is also impossible, with 1.3 million people in care, to set up a supervisor alongside each employee. But a supervisor is very important, especially a supervisor that has consequences for the supervision that is being held. And the Empire has a system responsibility. We have to be supportive in that too. We are. There's more to do, and I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u60	Shall we continue, Mr. Raemakers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u61	No, this is really about a fundamental question. The Minister sketches the system. He says you have clients, institutions and supervisors, and the ministry as system manager. This is a very important question. I have, of course, read very well the brief letter of the House of Representatives of Monday. In that it bothers me that the Minister very much lays down the responsibility for Youth Care Netherlands. The Minister writes that he has asked Youth Care Netherlands to urgently highlight the interest of members and to take additional measures and that he has asked Youth Care Netherlands to inform him about the summer. I don't hear "Youth Care Netherlands" anymore. I think that's right, too. So do I understand that the Minister will now return to his Monday letter in which he holds a very important role for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u62	No, Mr Raemakers does not quite understand that. I started to deepen the case: what could have happened here; what do we know at the moment? I then explained the role of SAVE Central Netherlands after that case came up and what actions they have taken. The second block concerned the role of the cooperating Utrecht municipalities and the actions they have taken. I would now arrive at the Personal Data Authority as a supervisor and then come to what I have done as a minister, as a system controller. The Netherlands does indeed have a role to play in this, but not alone. So it is not a question of putting the task on the board of another person, but it is a question of actually using everyone's role. Because I think we can use everyone's role to improve data protection. So I'll be right there. If you don't mind, I'm going to handle the Personal Data Authority first and I'm going to talk about the role that we have to play as Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u63	It's a point of principle, though. Because when a letter of formal notice is issued, it is read all over the country. It can create a wrong picture in the sector if nothing is mentioned in a letter of inquiry about the system responsibility of the Ministry, when we did ask for it, and when the government writes "we have Z-CERT, we have the inspection, we have the Dutch Data Protection Authority, and, oh yes, we are going to put a lot of things down at Youth Care Netherlands." Does the Minister agree with me? Of course, the sector would like to be supported by the Ministry. But with a letter of inquiry such as last Monday's, the sector does not feel supported at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u64	No, I don't agree with you. I find that a strange representation of things. Childcare The Netherlands is an industry organisation. In the creation of, for example, Z-CERT, industry organisations played a very important initiating role. I will return to Z-CERT in a moment and what the role there could be for the future. But Z-CERT was born out of the action of a number of trade associations, in collaboration with the Ministry. That's where you move in together, and that makes sense. By definition, all employers' tasks that concern a care sector are also the tasks that an inter-branch organisation has to perform. And it is therefore logical that I appeal to the Dutch Youth Services Department to address its members. I'm not saying, "Now the job is for you and I'm gonna stand by the side." On the contrary! If you have understood that, that was by no means my intention. No, we have a lot of work to do, as I will outline, not only in this case, but also in the healthcare sector as a whole. I had stayed with the Dutch Data Protection Authority, the third layer, the layer of supervisors. In the case of abuses in the processing of personal data, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, the AP, the designated supervisor, is legally determined. The AP supervises compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR. The AP is currently gathering facts about the infringement and is in contact with Together Safe Central Netherlands. From Together Safe Central Netherlands and the AP I understand that during the research the first results are already shared. This also means that the AP can form an image of what has happened here. Then it is up to the independent supervisor to follow up on this. I can't anticipate that. Then the role of the Minister, I say in the direction of Mr Raemakers. It is indeed a system responsible. I'm not running away from that. In fact, we have taken our system responsibility in this case. We have taken it widely in the past, and we will also take it in the future. First of all, we have, of course, asked SAVE Central Netherlands, which is primarily responsible. We have presented all the facts as well as possible and asked ourselves whether the actors here have done what is to be expected from the various actors. We've found that it is. All investigations have been launched: at SAVE Central Netherlands internally, at SAVE Central Netherlands externally, at the cooperating municipalities in Utrecht, and also at the supervisor at the GDPR, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. That's where all the research is being done. In advance, I asked the Netherlands for the following last Friday. First of all, I asked for the importance of good data protection to be brought to the attention of their members and to evaluate their own data protection. That is necessary, because it begins with institutions becoming aware of whether what happened in Utrecht can happen to them. That is also a bit of how we are holding this debate in this Chamber, shocked by what has happened. You want to see if this can happen elsewhere. It's a bit of a wake-up call, even for us. It should be for them, too. That's the first thing. Secondly, I asked Youth Care Netherlands to identify risks and take additional measures on the basis of those identified risks. Thirdly, in anticipation of the implementation of the Ellemeet motion, I will come back to what we should do in width in order to encourage their members to join the Care-CERT, the Care-Computer Emergency Response Team. That's the cybersecurity center for the care, you might say. It helps with ICT incidents, both in preventing and extinguishing the fire. I asked Childcare Netherlands to inform me about the results of these actions before 1 July. A general assembly of Members was held today, where this was also discussed. I'm going to discuss the results of that general assembly with Youth Care Netherlands in the short term. I am also doing this with the VNG, to see what we have completed in the youth care sector, before all the studies, could take additional steps to make the youth care sector more alert and vigilant on data protection. Finally, I asked Zorg-CERT to take appropriate action. That is the question that Mrs Westerveld has just repeated, and I believe that Raemakers also asked for it in the first term. On Friday, we asked Zorg-CERT if there were any more domain names that once belonged to an institution, while the institution has changed its name and has a new domain name, which means that those domain names have been released. Do we have a picture of that? And if we have an image of that, can we please close that hole right away? Because now that this news has come out, it can also be an idea for a non-meaning hacker to register such a domain name, with all the misery of that. We now know what can come of it. At that request, Zorg-CERT registered all domain names of other institutions known and released. So they are no longer available to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u65	Interesting what the Minister says. Could he explain how Z-CERT contributes to preventing problems? Putting out the fire, I get it, but preventing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u66	Sure. If you look at what people do, it's a wide range of tasks. In doing so, one can help to close data leaks that may arise, but one can also help to think about ways to prevent a data breach. One of the roles that Zorg-CERT has been given and is now playing in the hospital world, which is even more susceptible to cyber attacks than any other healthcare institution, is working with experiences with hackers, data leaks or cyberattacks on the internet. If a member institution has it, it reports it to Zorg-CERT. It will not only ensure that the institution is involved, but also that other affiliated institutions are alert to the prevention of that infringement. In short, a proven leak or cyberattack at one institution is at the same time a lesson for other institutions. For example, Care-CERT ensures continuous vigilance and alertness, including in its prevention. In fact, the comparison with the fire department is very good: the fire department not only extinguishes, but also learns from fire safety in one building in order to promote fire safety in another building. That's a bit of what Care-CERT does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u67	Those are a lot of words, but if this makes it a preventative effect on potential data leaks and cyberattacks, then a subscription to Zorg-CERT is as valuable as a subscription to Computer!Total. Because there is also a constant list of data leaks that have been there. If it's just a forwarding function, I don't understand why that high amount of money has to be paid. If you really want to find a solution, I say through the chairman, then I think that any organisation with a substantial infrastructure running an application landscape should have its own CERT. Wouldn't that be much better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u68	Now let's not be bathin' about this type of initiative. You can assume that larger healthcare institutions and hospitals dealing with a lot of sensitive data are extremely capable of maintaining their own ICT infrastructure in a safe way, arming themselves against cyberattacks and what's more. In addition, the NVZ (Nederlandse Vereniging van Ziekenhuizen), GGZ Nederland and the department have chosen jointly and this is a very nice thing to do to create a cybersecurity centre dedicated to the care, in which all knowledge of security, data leaks, data protection and cyberattacks is gathered. There knowledge is continuously kept up-to-date and securely shared, because the type of hacks and the type of data breaches also change. Those are also people with security screenings, of course. That type of knowledge is unique. I think it is a good thing that the healthcare sector is protecting itself and in this way it has created that fire-fighter function for itself. The question that arises here is why the youth care sector has not been connected to it for a long time. The Ellemeet motion has been a very justified motion. I'd like to work on that, too. Mr Bruins is working on this. I would actually think that the question was whether all the institutions should not be connected to Zorg-CERT. Frankly, I think that is mainly a question of "how" and not so much of "or." Because asking institutions to join Care-CERT, so that people can always stay alert, I think is something you should want. The question is how do we do it in such a way that it does not lead to huge costs and that it can be made manageable. Of course, we have thousands, tens of thousands of healthcare institutions, so it must all remain manageable. Honestly, I think we have the question of how to investigate and not so much the question of whether.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u69	The PVV stated in its contribution that Z-CERT is a fire department: extinguish afterwards. The Minister says: no, something is also being done "to prevent." To my question as to what is being prevented, the Minister answers that it is only the transmission of data leaks that have taken place elsewhere. Then I say: you can also find that on the internet or in a good computer magazine. In that respect, I insist that Z-CERT has a fire function. We should not underestimate them, but it is not a solution to the problems that exist in protecting data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u70	I do not share what Mr Mulder says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u71	I too have a question about Z-CERT. I am surprised, however, that the cabinet needs the Ellemeet motion to find this an important issue. You should expect people to have been working on this for a long time. So I would also like to ask the Minister how much money goes from the Ministry to Z-CERT. How many people work at Z-CERT? Is that enough for him to be able to meet the challenges that are now all being put on the plate of Z-CERT?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u72	I indicated that the Ellemeet motion was tabled in another debate, with Mr Bruins. This motion raises an extremely real question: should not all health care institutions be connected to Z-CERT? Shouldn't that also be a mandatory connection? At this time, in which ICT security and data protection play such an important and increasingly important role, you should say: that is quite logical. The question is mostly about how. Then how do you make that legal obligation? What are the implications of such a legal obligation? Does that apply to all tens of thousands of institutions in the care sector? And if you do, what does that mean for the organization? It is now, of course, a small organisation, and that should then become much larger. But how much bigger? Can we do that? And what tasks can you and cannot ask of them? My impression is that we must say from Corinne Ellemeet's motion that not so much the question is 'or' but above all 'how'. I would like to ask you, Mr President, whether it was a question for you or for Mrs Tielen to come back to it before the summer. Then I can also indicate what its implications are, including the size.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u73	That's not an answer to the question. I've asked how much budget goes there, how many people work there, and if that works. Maybe the Minister can answer that in the second term. I would also like to comment on the block that the Minister has now dealt with. He says: I put a number of things down at Youth Care Netherlands and expect an answer from them on 1 July. I find that doubtful; I do not entirely agree with that. But okay, let me just assume that Youth Care Netherlands will deliver a number of things to the minister on 1 July 2019. In the summer, after 1 July, can we send a number of cyberexperts and ethical hackers to a number of youth care institutions in the Netherlands to test whether it is indeed safe everywhere? How does the Minister feel about going straight to the test after 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u74	You look at it like it doesn't happen. Because that's what's gonna happen. That is not the case with all the institutions, because it is up to the institution itself to order a pen test. This is not just about data and ICT. This also has to do with the question of how we deal with data protection in our premises at all. So also papers that swing somewhere where they're not supposed to swing, should be taken into it. I know a lot of municipalities do it. They are supported by the VNG. Care settings do it, too. I actually think it is a very good idea to see if we should not offer a more proactive offer of assistance towards institutions. That could, for example, be a question for Care-CERT. In that short time between the first term of office and the first term of office, I have not been able to find out. But it seems to me to be a very sensible question, because I think it can help. I'll be right back to what we have to do at all. This was all about this individual case and what we did in response to this individual case. If we're going to go over the data protection block in healthcare at all, I think it's okay if we look at what we're gonna have to do from here. This is the question I asked the Netherlands. I will discuss this with the VNG and with Childcare Netherlands. Your question whether we should not do much more with pen tests and whether that is not very helpful in constantly making institutions vigilant and alert, I would very much like to take that into account, because I think it is a very sensible suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u75	But the Minister is doing exactly the same thing now. He says: institutions can do pen tests themselves and municipalities can do pen tests themselves; I will bring it to the attention of Z-CERT and I will bring it to the attention of Youth Care Netherlands. But I want the Minister to test a number of things himself. Because there may be institutions that say: we don't need that pen test at all. There might be municipalities that say that doesn't play in our congregation. So why can't the minister hire a number of ethical hackers himself and test those municipalities and those institutions on a sample basis whether the system is waterproof or not? Isn't that what he's systemically responsible for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u76	Yes, but the word "system responsibility" is a sign of system responsibility. It doesn't mean you're taking over everyone's responsibility, and that makes you a little bit of it now. There is simply a division of responsibility which is also laid down in the law. It means that institutions are responsible for data management first and fortunately but, because try to figure out how big the department should be if we wanted to take over all that responsibility. I don't think any of us want that. Institutions are therefore responsible first. Clients of these institutions are then responsible. In this case, these are the municipalities. In some cases these are the health insurance companies and in some cases the health offices. These are the clients of these institutions. They can do a lot through contract management. You can also make a contractual deal with those pen tests. Besides, we have supervisors. Those regulators have to monitor data leaks in a formal sense. I'll get to the part of the inspection later. In addition, we do have that system responsibility. On the basis of this system of responsibility, last Friday, I asked Youth Care Netherlands to press the institutions to identify the risks and, on the basis of this, to discuss with me before 1 July what extra is needed to give substance to those risks. I believe that your suggestion to do pen tests is not just an extremely useful suggestion; I would like to get to work on that. But, of course, I do so in consultation with health care institutions, because the responsibility lies where it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u77	We're going to see Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u78	This really isn't good enough. The Minister can say that it is a good thing that these tests are going to be carried out, but you cannot, of course, leave that to organisations themselves. The whole point is: if you, as a care institution, know that you don't have the place in order, you're gonna fix it. Why would an institution that hasn't put data security in order start testing itself? You must of course also take the inspection and control as part of the supervision. Our suggestion is to do so precisely from the point of view of the minister, not every institution and not every day, but on a random basis. That's also a signal to the rest of the sector: you can get a check; we're going to do those tests and you can expect a note from us at some point on the mat stating that we tested you and that you failed. And that must have consequences. That's a very logical way to do it, isn't it, as part of the oversight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u79	In the way in which the GDPR enforcement is now organised, the Dutch Data Protection Authority is the regulator there. In addition, there is, of course, an increasing responsibility for the IGJ, I have to say, because it has not been very long since the Health and Youth Inspectorate had to deal with this. However, it ensures that healthcare providers meet the right conditions for the deployment of ICT and for the quality and safety of care. Of course, the safety of care also has to do with the security of data sharing. The subject of information security is part of the e-health review framework of the inspection. The inspection expects healthcare providers to make demonstrable work of an information security management system that complies with the legal standard. Of course, you could very well support this. From 2018 onwards, the inspection will pay structural attention to the theme e-health at healthcare institutions. In autumn 2017, the inspection therefore started a series of exploratory visits under the e-health review framework, which deals in particular with safe data sharing. The inspection visited hospitals, ggz institutions and disability care institutions. On this basis, the inspection has further developed its monitoring of e-health over the past year and further strengthened the e-health review framework. The inspection will first examine whether the current review framework is appropriate and formally suitable for the youth field. For this purpose, the inspection carries out a number of pilots at youth care institutions. But when I hear you like that, and even when I hear Mr Raemakers like that, I think that... Let me start by saying that I also want Youth Care Netherlands as an industry organisation and the VNG to take their role. But you actually say: couldn't you also do proactive pen tests from a supervisory role? I think the answer is yes. But that would mean, and that is not currently on the inspection work programme nor, in my view, on that of the Personal Data Authority, that you are doing more of a thematic research into data security, data security in the youth care sector. For such a thematic study, the inspection could indeed use pen tests. I am not in favour of doing so in all health care institutions or in all youth care institutions, because that is simply a huge burden. There are 6,000 youth care institutions alone, even though there are also small ones. It all has to stay a little bit catchy, too. But that suggestion, if you think it's a suggestion, I could make. I would then like to discuss with the inspection, also in cooperation with the AP, how that would be possible. A pen test could be part of that. This is without prejudice to the work that institutions already have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u80	It goes without saying that in principle the responsibility should lie with the organisation itself. I agree 100% with that. It would be very easy if you could write that off. I am really pleased that the Minister is now taking up this suggestion, because this is exactly what I mean: the inspection is going to be conducted in consultation and in cooperation with the Personal Data Authority not only afterwards establishing that something serious has happened, but it is part of the monitoring and monitoring of the care. It actually goes exactly as there is supervision of the quality of the care itself: the inspection walks in on the work floor, looks how things are and looks into the files to see if everything is in order. With such a test, it can easily be done remotely. But the point is that this practical content will be included in the inspection. So if the Minister is open to that, I would say: let's do it above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u81	Sure. I'm open to that. I would like to give some thought to the form in which we can make that happen and to the speed at which it can be done. It does require something new in both the inspection work programme and the work programme of the Personal Data Authority. They will not be prepared to start such an investigation tomorrow, which I believe is a great deal. But I know what you mean. Moreover, I do not agree with the qualification that Mr Mulder has just given about Care-CERT. A fire department doesn't just have to put out. A firefighter certainly has to work preventively. And a good firefighter works preventively. In my opinion, therefore, Zorg-CERT is an important value in itself. I also think, and this is just as a result of the debate I had with Mr Raemakers, that we should not remove responsibility for those who bear the first responsibility, precisely because employers now have a lot of opportunities to educate their people, to alert their people and to bear their own responsibilities. I'll get back to you on that. There's a disciplinary side to that, too. Many questions have been asked like: this applies to Together Safe Central Netherlands (SAVE), but what about other youth care institutions? We don't have a real-time overview of what's going on with settings. Of course, the AP doesn't have that either. The inspection doesn't have that either. No one has. So it makes sense, I think, to use this test, using pen tests or ethical hackers, as I think it is called, to increase awareness in the sector. That seems to me to be a sensible step, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u82	I hear the Minister making a cautious commitment, with "maybe" and "maybe" and "conversation." I appreciate that very much. However, I believe that the purpose of this debate tonight is also to make it clear outside this Chamber that security and trust in relation to personal data are really high on our common agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u83	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u84	And we think that is what the Minister is saying, and I also hear him say that the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Health and Youth Inspectorate have a role to play there. Do they have to take responsibility? No, definitely not. But they must be a point of contact from the country and also actively show that they are looking for the risks and the holes. So I hear this minister making that commitment. At the same time, I would like to have a less cautious approach at the end of the evening. Can the Minister make a more direct commitment now, or does he ask the Chamber to deliver a ruling on this in black and white?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u85	Does this minister ask for a motion? That's actually the question. Well, not necessarily. You are free to do so, but let me put what I think is right as far as possible. It's actually my second block, but I'm going to go through exactly what I think the next actions should be. What you are adding in advance to what I would say is that we are actually asking the regulators to do not proactively, but proactively, something like a thematic research into data security, data protection in youth care. Let me just call it that, because the inspection often conducts thematic research. The suggestion of Hijink and Raemakers was to use pen tests. I'd be happy to make that commitment. I would just like to say that I have to discuss this with both the AP and the inspection to see how and in what time frame that is meaningful to shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u86	I hear the promise, and I also hear that the Minister will come back to the responsibilities. I'll wait and see, but this sounds promising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u87	Then I come to my second block that is about how we generally deal with data protection, on what basis, and how we prevent data leaks. Many questions have been asked about this and I think I can answer them fairly coherently. A number of speakers have asked how we can come up with structural solutions. How do you prevent it and not just repair it afterwards? First of all, I think Mr Raemakers has asked for the figures. A number of figures were also mentioned here, namely the figures of the number of data leaks known to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In 2018, the Dutch Data Protection Authority reported more than 20,000 data leaks across all sectors. Most data leaks were reported by organisations in the health and well-being sectors with 29%, financial services 26%, and public administration 17%. In the whole health and well-being sector, it is 6,055 legal reports. Of these, 6% are reported in the youth sector. If I calculate it very quickly, 6% is a thick 300. The chairman will correct me if I have not correctly calculated. Those are big numbers, that's one side of it. At the same time, I say yes, that is to say 1.3 million people working in the healthcare sector. The number of reports does not immediately seem to me to be equal to the number of risks. You cannot immediately conclude that it is so bad. You can also say that it says something about the alertness with which the sector deals. I would certainly like to add something extra in advance where care is concerned, which I do not think is sufficiently highlighted in this debate. Many people working in the healthcare sector, in addition to obviously having a legal responsibility to process data properly and to comply with the GDPR and the provisions of the Youth Act, also have to comply with disciplinary law. The way data sharing is handled is liable for disciplinary action. That applies to the medical-specialist sector altogether. There they are very used to working with disciplinary law, but in the meantime they are also very used to working with disciplinary law in the youth care sector. Especially in the youth protection side of the case, disciplinary law is widely applied, precisely where data sharing is concerned. In short, I dare say that, on its own account, you cannot say that data is handled carelessly. This is without prejudice to the regular occurrence of a reportable data breach with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The fact that people are aware of this and report it is not something to worry about, but is a good thing. Let me add a few more examples. If an employee left his phone on the train, that's a reportable data breach. If you left your bag on the train with a file in it, not digitally but from paper, that's a reportable data breach. If you didn't move digitally as an institution like Bureau Jeugdzorg Utrecht, but moved physically from one street to another street and mail arrives at your old address, that's a reportable data breach. Data leaks occur among the 1.3 million people who deal with highly protective personal data every day. They will continue to be prevented in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u88	I understand the Minister's figures, but I also think she is problematic. The minister says there are 6,000 data leaks and 6% of them in youth care. That's 360 if you calculate it exactly. That's almost the same number as the number of municipalities we have. I believe that there are 380 or perhaps a little less by now. This would mean that in each municipality, on average, about one data breach takes place every year. If you look at it from that point of view, it is very serious that there are a lot of municipalities that are not working on the subject at all. Can the Minister state what he thinks about the fact that, on average, a data breach is taking place in every municipality in the youth care sector every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u89	That's serious. Data leaks are serious. I did not want to argue that it is not serious, but I wanted to argue that the extent to which data leaks are reported does not necessarily mean anything about the carelessness with which data is handled, but above all about the alertness with which data is handled. The alertness that if you've forgotten your bag with that file, you know that's a reportable data breach. That's one. Two is that the numbers are large, very large. At the same time, these 6,000 reports belong to a healthcare sector where 1.3 million people work. I'm not making anything smaller in that, but I would like to stress that we just have to be sober and honest with each other. 100% guarantee that there could never be a data breach again does not exist in a sector where sensitive data is handled so much. We have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u90	But this is a strange line of argument: if someone leaves their bag on the train, it is a good thing that it is reported every time. How can this minister be sure that every child care worker who forgets his bag once on the train reports this? He doesn't know what cases aren't reported, does he? I think that is a crooked line of argument. For example, you can always say that the figures are not "because everything is reported." But that's the problem. We don't know what's not reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u91	That's right. I didn't say that either. That's right. I'm saying a few things. One. The level of the figure is not necessarily a sign of carelessness; it can also be a sign of alertness. That's the first thing I say: can be. I'm not sure. That's the first thing I say about it. Two. You can also indicate the numbers in relation to the total size of the sector and the extent to which confidential data is handled. It is more important in the healthcare sector than in any sector. I don't think it's crazy that care is the biggest detector. I think that's normal. In fact, if care were not the biggest detector, I would be much more concerned, because that would mean that the healthcare sector is apparently very little alert. In short, yes, it is an extremely serious phenomenon to take. Everyone has underlined this and I believe that we are in complete agreement on this point. The only thing I want to watch out for is that at some point we would be telling each other that you don't, by the way, in the desire to really do something about it, that we could go to a 100% prevention of data leaks. I can't. Why do I call that phone on the train? That's a case I've been through myself. Indeed, one of our district team members in Rotterdam had left the phone on the train. He says to her boss, "I left my phone on the train." Then the boss asks, "Was there a password on that?" No, there was no password on it. Super stupid, of course. That's the simplest security you can apply. In short, from that moment on we have given additional instructions to all district team employees: boys, secure your phone on all possible fronts. Of course, we also started working with secure mail and stuff. In short, this data breach report, reporting it alone and then talking about it and taking action with each other, just helps to do it better and better. This is also the ratio behind the GDPR and the reporting obligation contained in the GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u92	I'd like to ask the Minister about this. How does this relate to the fact that the Authority's Personal Data Supervisory Authority says about last year's 20,881 data leaks that it is a structural privacy problem in healthcare? This is therefore a doubling compared to the year before, which is also understandable because there was more media attention because of the GDPR. 29% of data leaks take place in healthcare. How does that relate to the Minister's statement that it is not really such a big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u93	But that's not what I'm saying. I'm not saying it's not a very big problem. It's a big problem, though. I'm just trying to show that I don't think it's illogical that the healthcare sector is the biggest detector of all sectors in the Netherlands. In fact, if the healthcare sector were not the biggest detector, I would be worried, because that would indicate a lack of alertness. It is a sector with 1.3 million people, much larger than any sector. One in seven people with work works in care. In that care, everyone deals with confidential data every day. So if not a large part of the AP reports were to come out of the care, then we really should be worried. Is this a major task for the care sector? Yes, of course the care sector has a huge task, because there are so many people with so much confidential data. And so the healthcare sector has a very big mission. That's a big assignment we have to live up to. I'll outline what steps we can take later. But I didn't want to make it any smaller than reality and what's actually going on. What I am saying is that the scale of the numbers is not so much a lack of care, but rather a sufficient level of alertness. I'm happy about that on my own. I'm not ruling out any more next year. In fact, maybe we should all hope that next year the number of reports from healthcare is more. That would indicate a growing alertness and with that alertness it should begin. We can't do anything. We can make rules until we're on our own and we can set up systems, set up firefighters' functions, but it really starts with common sense. Mrs Kuik said that quite rightly. Mr Peters said it too. Common sense. And also: what you do not want to happen to you... when it comes to sharing data. That's actually the most simple rule in life at all, but especially when it comes to data sharing. What would you think if it were your family, if it were your child? Would you like to see it all out in the open? No, of course not. And so: common sense and treat another in terms of information as you would like to be treated yourself. That's actually the first line of defense or defense wall versus data leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u94	The reason I am so concerned about this is that the Minister does recognize that it is a problem, that I hear him say, but that he considers it a wake-up call. This data breach in youth care was a wake-up call, while the Dutch Data Protection Authority says there is a structural problem. I have also listed in my contribution a whole list of examples of data leaks from the past six months. This also shows that there is a structural problem with privacy in care. I would very much like the Minister to acknowledge its urgency and tell us what he is going to do about it instead of calling it a wake-up call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u95	I was just looking for the letter I sent to the Chamber yesterday with colleague Bruins. Yeah, it's a wake-up call. Some data leaks were potentially very ugly, with very big consequences for the privacy of all those parents and children who thought their story was safe. Fortunately, it seems that the information did not end up with the wrong people. Fortunately it doesn't seem to have been seen by other unauthorized people than RTL News and the detectors, but it could of course have been. In that sense, it's definitely a wake-up call. Let us also use it as a wake-up call towards the youth care sector. If Mrs Arissen explains that at the same time as: yes, it is not that you have only started doing so since last week, then that is certainly the case. Look what all this has done. We have put together the facts, the long list of all the actions that have been taken since my predecessor, Mr Bruins and myself, and these are quite a number of actions to get better and better at data protection and data security, knowing that you can never get it 100% close. I am going to list what we have to do, because that was actually the question. I'll try to do that a little bit succinctly. If I had not said so myself, I think the President would have said so at the moment. We know each other a little bit by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u96	It burns me on the lips.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u97	What does it start with? It starts with all 1.3 million people in care themselves, common sense and treating another as you want to be treated yourself when it comes to data sharing. Of course, please share those data that help to promote security, but it is always necessary to know and never nice to know. So make sure you're reluctant when it comes to data you don't have to share. We have put an enforcement regime up to the level of the individual employee. It's called disciplinary justice. In that sense, I think the question of whether additional rules are needed has also been answered. I honestly wonder if this would have been prevented by additional rules. I don't think so, because according to the rules it wasn't allowed. It's just been stupid. Can we avoid that with rules? I don't think so, but I think it's common sense. That's one. Two. There is a responsibility for the healthcare providers. This responsibility lies primarily with the healthcare providers themselves, because they are the employer, they are the implementing body of the care. It is precisely this concern that is linked to a number of rules. That is the second side: the legal provisions and the Dutch Data Protection Authority. So what do these institutions have to do? They have to comply with legal requirements, the GDPR, the General Regulation Personal Data, as established here in the Chamber. They have to comply with specific provisions in the Youth Act, the Wmo 2015 and the regulations that are based on them for youth aid providers and certified institutions, the Act additional provisions processing personal data in the care, a number of care-wide Dutch standards for information security, the NEN standard development; one of the actions we have taken in recent times. Any personal data breach, including a data breach or an ICT incident, must be reported to the Personal Data Authority within 72 hours. Healthcare providers are subject to these strict rules. The AP shall ensure that it is complied with. But not only the Dutch Data Protection Authority has a supervisory role, also the Health and Youth Inspectorate is increasingly playing a supervisory role. The AP where it is about processing personal data, because that is the legal task of the AP. But the processing of personal data is part of safe care, part of quality management, and the inspection will monitor it. It has played an increasingly important role in recent times, precisely because data security and data protection play an increasingly important role. I think I mentioned this in reply to Mrs Tielen in our little debate a moment ago. I mentioned that the e-health review framework has actually become increasingly important. It has been developed, it has been applied to hospitals, ggz institutions and disability care institutions. On the basis of these findings, the inspection has been engaged in further designing its monitoring of e-health in recent years and in further supplementing and strengthening the e-health review framework. The next step is that the inspection will do pilots in youth care to see if the same review framework e-health is also applicable in youth care. What the triumvirate Tielen, Raemakers, Hijink actually added to that was: okay, but we actually want a proactive and thematic study from the IGJ on the one hand and the AP on the other hand to be carried out on the subject of data protection and information security in the youth care sector, using pen tests as part of such a thematic research. Of this, I would like to say that I am discussing this with the inspection and the AP, and that I will let the Chamber know what form and content is to be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u98	I would like to hear a more precise answer on this point. I would be in favour of this becoming a structural part of the process of inspection in the longer term. This is not a one-off study in which we are going to do some tests here and there, but this could be part of the firm method of inspection. Logically, this task ends there: just as the inspection can invade a nursing home to see how the quality of care is, so the inspection also digitally enters an institution to check the quality of data protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u99	Yes. I understand that wish, too. But then you're actually going one step further. I just indicated that the inspection, by working on that e-health monitoring framework, is actually already taking steps to make data protection monitoring part of regular monitoring. It is therefore a question of whether or not data sharing is digital. But they haven't got that far yet. First, we really need to test whether the review framework that has now been developed can also work within the youth care sector. Let me say in advance that I am very afraid of a huge bureaucratic burden. I shall come back to that in a moment in response to questions from Mr Peters. That is indeed possible. That is why I think it is right for the inspection to continue with what it is doing, namely simply to test that supervisory framework in practice: in what way could that work in the youth care sector? But before that is properly tested, we are really in the end of the year, and I think your need is to know earlier what is really going on in the youth care sector. That is why I say to you, and I say this in the direction of Mrs Tielen and Mr Raemakers, that we should ask the inspection, together with the AP, to carry out a proactive, thematic investigation into data security and its protection with pen tests. On this basis, we should conclude that this should therefore become part of the regular inspection supervision. It may be that we come to the conclusion that this can be helpful and that there is a big issue there. The way in which that supervisory framework is already being tested could therefore answer the question of how to make it part of regular supervision. So I would really like to use this thematic research to find out what additional steps we need to take. It could be just one of those extra steps that this becomes an integral part of that supervision. That's it for that inspection, Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, it is also about our system responsibility. Mr Raemakers has said a number of things about this. We have already considered part of this, but let me give you a few examples of how we have fulfilled this system of responsibility and how we intend to fulfil it. First of all, NEN standards have been developed for the secure email. That's what we ordered. This is very important because e-mail security is not a common use that should not be given additional attention. Secure email connections are of course absolutely necessary when emailing between settings. But also within settings it is good that e-mail, especially if it contains file information, always goes through a secure connection. We asked for that NEN standard. It will be available in May, and that means that from then on all providers of secure e-mail connections will always have to work in accordance with that NEN standard. That's an example. We have just spoken a great deal about the help and support provided by Zorg-CERT. Let me not repeat all that, but of course we will continue to do so. In fact, we have now asked the youth care sector to join. On the basis of the Ellemeet motion, as I have just indicated, we will come back before the summer to the question of how this connection can take place and what implications it has. Then there are a number of other actions, such as the AVG-Helpdesk that we set up in May together with the care domes. We have, of course, done something about active information security through that previous information security action plan. This includes awareness campaigns and the provision of support, including to members of various umbrella organisations. Mr President, I think I have had the questions in this block. I just want to make sure that's true. No. Mr Hijink asked whether the AP was able to carry out the tasks in the care. Is the size of the AP even calculated on that? To be honest, this is more of a question to discuss with Mr Grapperhaus. I wouldn't dare give up a klip-and-ready yes or no right now. I assume that every year the work plan meets the legal task we have given the authority, as we deal with inspections and other independent supervisors. As we do, all departments do so with their supervisors. The authority is an independent body. It determines its own work programme and makes its own choices in its enforcement. The question is justified as to whether we are up to this task. Does Mr Hijink agree with me when I discuss this question with Mr Grapperhaus? As the AP falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, I would therefore like to take up this question with Mr Grapperhaus. I think I've had most of the questions in this block. I have a number of other questions to answer. The Party for Animals asked questions about the obligation to exchange data electronically. I believe that you had a debate on this with my colleague Bruins not so long ago. You will have that more often in the future, because Mr Bruins has sent a comprehensive letter to step by step towards more digitisation. I think we should not repeat that debate. Last week, my colleague outlined a kind of first roadmap for how we move on to a step-by-step commitment to a data exchange standard with which all digital applications have to work in care. I would like to add something to that when it comes to safety, which is your concern. In today's constellation, we impose quite little. Ever since the EPD was stranded in the First Chamber, there has been a kind of shudder in politics to dare to do anything with ICT and care when it comes to patient files. This has not only led to concerns for employees about the interchangeability of data when it is really necessary, but also to a proliferation of data standards. We have already taken action with the Information Board at first. Now we are going to do this step by step more and more binding. I think that's what safety is all about. Following the little debate you had with Mr Raemakers, I would like to say that the only condition under which this further digitisation can take place is, of course, good data protection. So it is: with protected data or not. That doesn't mean that before you can digitize, you will have to give a hundred percent guarantee on the data sharing and whether all of that is going to be safe. Safer data exchange requires digitalisation. Look what's still being used in paper files. Look at what's still going on in exchangeability of data, including, for example, acute care, between hospital and community care and between GP and neighbourhood care. Look at what data is lost there. Data is not shared because they cannot be shared, simply because data standards are not interlocked. Look at what that means for the inefficiency and insecurity of some healthcare transfer moments, which are always there. I think that when it comes to safety in care, we have a world to gain from digitisation. In short, I am deeply committed to further digitizing and want to make a firm plea for this. I would also like to say in your direction: it can only be done if it can be done safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u100	The Minister is right to say that the LSP, the electronic patient file, was stranded in the First Chamber; it was voted away. However, former Minister Schippers then continued with the LSP as an infrastructure for the sharing of medical records. That is the point I want to make here, namely that this is precisely what cannot be brought into line with privacy law and medical professional secrecy. Privacy experts warn about this. I would therefore like to urge the Minister to stop this accelerated compulsory digitisation, because if we see the LSP as an undisputed building block for the future exchange of medical data, we will continue to encounter these major security problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u101	This is the time when we are actually going to repeat the debate that you have already had with Mr Bruins and that you will have more often with Mr Bruins. Moreover, the LSP is not a mandatory infrastructure, but if I'm going to apply that kind of nuances, I think we're going to go deep into the technique. I was more concerned with the general issue. Actually, I understand very well where your concern is. You are concerned about safety. Are our data safe with further digitisation? In fact, I wanted to underline the reversal of this: if we do not opt for further digitisation, we are failing to achieve safety in care. But if we opt for further digitisation, we do so step by step, and we can only do so if we can do so safely. That's how we're gonna get to work. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll continue with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u102	First of all, let's start with the conclusion of this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that safety must be paramount in the sharing of medical data. I suppose that's why he's coming back to my question about the execution of my motion to work with end-to-end medical data encryption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u105	Raemakers just a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u106	On this point, Mr President, because we have also asked for this in the debate. The Minister clearly states that cyber security is a prerequisite, but we also see that it is laid down, in particular, by Z-CERT and the institutions. Can we also agree here that the Minister will come forward with a letter before the summer on how the Minister can guarantee that security in digital data exchange is always guaranteed? Can the Minister just promise to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u107	With the word "guarantee," to be honest, I can't do anything when it comes to care. Care is human work and guarantees cannot be given from this house. If I did, you wouldn't believe me! With the word "guarantee," I can't do that much. I'll give you some responses. The first is that I have just said that I am going to make appointments with the youth care institutions, the VNG et cetera. I have asked them to report to me before 1 July, and that obviously means that on this basis I will inform the Chamber of what additional steps are needed. The second commitment I have made is that I will use the AP and the IGJ to see if we can find a proactive thematic way of research to see how data security is doing in the care sector. I would like it if it came together in time, because on the basis of both what Youth Care Netherlands and the VNG brings out and on the basis of the research of the AP and the IGJ, I can see what additional measures are needed on our part. It is therefore a question of additional measures which we should take. That's one side. We are doing this in connection with this debate and also in connection with what we saw in Utrecht. The second part is actually a very different debate, but it does, of course, touch it here. That is the debate that the Party for Animals is also seeking. If we choose this far-reaching digitisation, we will have to do so under the sine qua non of data protection and data security. That's a sine qua nun. That is a precondition which, of course, has to apply. With Mr Bruins, you are holding the debate on the steps we have to take together in this further digitisation. Last week, in my view, you have not yet been able to discuss this in the Chamber, he has sent another letter to the Chamber in which he outlines all the steps we have to take on the road to making a requirement of not so much digitisation as the standards of data exchange, in order to increase the safety of care. That is actually another debate. But I am of course saying that this can only be done under the conditions of data protection and data security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u108	I want a minister who's on top of it, not a minister who's waiting. I now hear too much in the answer that the Minister indicates what he is all waiting for and that it is then Mr Bruins' portfolio. But I don't think that's very relevant. I am now in the debate with the US Secretary of State. We have put the question very clearly, with several groups, in the debate: can this be included as a precondition? Then the Minister states: yes, that must be a prerequisite. But that is invested in all kinds of clubs and all kinds of things. What can the Minister just do in the near future? My question was very simple: can he send a letter before the summer on how, in all the developments involving easier electronic sharing of patient data, in all areas of care, can he ensure that this happens in a good way? Can he now take action on this, while this is going on, and come forward with concrete actions before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u109	I really do not understand why you are asking this question after the debate we have just had and after the answer you have just received. As a result of this case in the youth care sector, I have explained what additional measures I am going to take. Yes, indeed, I understand that you would like to have a recap of that before the summer and want to know what we will do with it and how we will proceed with it. That's the trail. The second track, which is not to wait, is precisely not to wait; Mr Bruins is working very intensively on this: the obligation of data standards and thus the promotion of the further digitalisation of data exchange in healthcare: working with personal health environments and the obligation of data standards so that all suppliers use the same data standards in the care. Mr Bruins said that, in my view, that is exactly what you want us to do. By the way, that's a very complex law. However, we are going to do so, because we believe that this is the only way to do it quickly, but also according to the peripheral condition that you are describing, namely safe. So we are not going to wait and see; we are working on this every day. We are making that law, and that law can only come under the perimeter of data security. That is not to wait, that is to act. We're already doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u110	First, the Minister says: I do not understand the question. Eventually, he answers him very well. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u111	Old trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u112	A nice rhetorical trick from the Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u113	You've got it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u114	We have unraveled it, together, I say to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u115	Yeah, exposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u116	But it was also about what Mr Hijink rightly asked me in an interruption about, for example, the PGOs, the personal health environments. That is, of course, a route that runs. I do not think that this Minister can say that that is entirely Mr Bruins' approach. There are also issues in the portfolio of the VWS Minister, I refer to youth care, the long-term care, in which these PGAs simply play a role. Our question is very clear: the development of these PGAs must be a prerequisite for safety. This is a development that I think started in 2018. That goes on and on. My question is therefore very real: then I would also like a letter before the summer which states how security is being monitored more closely for existing developments. I just think there should be one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u117	Not meant as a rhetorical trick, of course, but then I ask: what do you want extra? In the data standards to get those PGOs to fly at all, MedMij, safety is just completely embedded. The MedMij data standards can only exist if that security is guaranteed, i.e. under the condition of safety. So that's what safety is all about. So what do you want extra? Because we should never set these MedMy standards if they weren't just "safety" standardized. So what do you want extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u118	A letter for the summer. In which the Minister explains in detail how, in view of what happened last week and what is very serious, he is going to ensure that security is an absolute prerequisite for all developments in data digitization. Of course, steps have already been taken to ensure this, but last week's case shows us that we need to put an extra tooth on this. That's why I'm asking for a letter for the summer. That's it, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u119	We are taking a number of extra steps, as I have just outlined to you, in relation to the youth care domain, following last week's casusism. We'll take those steps. I've just outlined all of that to you. In addition, you ask: what about PGOs, data standards, digitalization, what do we do there? This also following a question from the Party for Animals. Well, we're not doing anything extra, but of course we're working on that standardisation. This standardisation works with the MedMij standards and in them safety is simply baked as a tough demand. But let me promise you this. I will see if the letter sent by Mr Bruins last week deals adequately with safety. If that is not enough, I will show you, in addition, before you discuss this letter, how the whole development of the PGO and the standardization of MedMij are simply embedded in safety. It's part of that. That's not a complicated letter to write at all. I don't think anything extra is needed, because data security is just a sine qua non when it comes to data standardisation and standardisation of data exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u120	Can we go to a second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u121	No, because I haven't answered one question from the Party for Animals yet, and we shouldn't want to do that with each other. That is the question of the state of research into end-to-end encryption. That question was asked to NEN. It has been asked whether this can be taken into account when reviewing and tightening up NEN standards. As soon as we know more about this, Mr Bruins will inform you about it. You wouldn't have missed that answer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u122	And Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen looks happy, too. Is there a need for a second term? You don't have to. I see now that Mr Hijink has a question first. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u123	At the risk of just missing the answer. I asked the Minister how he would feel about examining whether health care in its entirety should not be covered by the essential services, which could guarantee better protection under the Cybersecurity Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u124	I am going to ask you if I can give the answer in more detail in writing. But as I understand it and as I was able to take it well between the first term of the Chamber and my own first term, essential services are defined as: if they do not exist, there is something that should be available. Think of the diesel supply, I say towards GroenLinks, or the supply of drinking water. So it's about essential functions that completely disrupt social life when it's broken into from the outside by a state or non-state actor. Because we have a lot of hospitals and a lot of healthcare institutions, that about an institution in care is not to be said as such. Unless care as a whole is at risk, but that is not necessarily the case. I believe that this has been the consideration of not naming "the" concern as such. But when it comes to acute care, for example, there is always, of course, a question of whether there is sufficient possibility of scaling up if there is a major disaster or a major breach or something. But that is not so much about hacking into a care facility as about other disasters, where many victims are killed. Then the question is whether the bed capacity is sufficiently calculated on the care question, which explodes enormously at that time. But that is something other than naming the care as a whole as an essential function.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u125	But that's complicated, because of course you can't name one component as an essential function. The point is that there are several reasons to designate something as an essential service. For example, it can be if a lot of people are killed or if billions of people are damaged. But one of the other reasons for doing so, which is also stated in that law, is if there can be great emotional damage to a significant group of people. In the example we are discussing tonight, thousands of children would have been in very big trouble if these dates had ended up on the streets. This could also be the case with other institutions. Maybe you can reason that the damage isn't big enough if it happens to just one institution, I think it is, but you could say that it isn't, but the compilation of data leaks as a whole can, of course, cause very large groups of people in our country to suffer great emotional damage. As far as I am concerned, that could be a reason to reconsider whether it should not be covered by those conditions. I'm fine with the Minister sending a letter. We have already had a letter on this from Mr Bruins once. Then include this element in that letter and make some kind of reconsideration as to whether this has been the right choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u126	I do not know whether it should be a review, but you have just sent me on coffee with Mr Grapperhaus. The Cyber Security Act is his responsibility. It is also a European obligation to have them and to designate essential functions in them. I think it would be a good thing if I again took this point up again and looked at whether the argument used to make this choice is an adequate argument. I shall return to this point in reply to Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u127	I had asked the Minister about young people whom we often hear they would like to have access to their files, even though they do not have access to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u128	The first person to whom young people could report this, especially if they are young people who are in an institution, are, of course, the people who trust them. We have discussed this in detail in the centralization of the trust function. The people of AKJ can really help young people in this. A second possibility, if one really feels that an institution does not deliver here, is inspection, because the law has to be observed and the inspection has to monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u129	Is the Minister prepared, for example, to set a deadline for young people who are no longer in the institution but who would like to ask for their file? I get back from young people that they're doing this, but sometimes it can take months for them to hear back. Can't we tighten the rules a little bit more and say that your file just needs to be delivered within three weeks if you request it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u130	Yeah. You know, this is the way new rules keep sneaking into care. I don't know if we should. I think it is well arranged in the sense that the AKJ, the confidant, if accessible and used, can play this role. We had just as nice an amendment for that after our little dispute with the previous law. Besides, we just have the inspection, which acts on the basis of signals. In this case, the signal may be given to the inspection either by the young person or by the person concerned, or by any other person involved in those young people. So should you encounter a younger person in the mailbox who comes up with this story, I would say: let's make sure that it ends up in the inspection so that the inspection can fulfil its role. You can do that through me, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u131	I was just about to talk about the mailbox, because I still have two unanswered questions. I had asked the Minister if he knows how many youth care institutions do not encrypt their information, e-mails and voicemails, and what he does about them. The importance of this is that youth care staff simply send information as plain text, just as text, in an email to each other or to others, and not in an encrypted attachment. Does the Minister have any idea how often that occurs? And what can he do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u132	I gave the answer, namely that we do not know. We cannot know that either, because that would mean that we have a reallife database of the ways in which all tens of thousands of healthcare institutions in the Netherlands secure their e-mail. We can't do that. Well, let's develop the e-mail-NEN standard. It will be announced in May. From that moment on, this is the current NEN standard to which all the institutions in the care sector have to comply, including the youth care institutions. This can therefore be assessed. Who's gonna test that next? When visiting an institution, that is the inspection based on that monitoring framework e-health. And if it is based on a notification, then the Dutch Data Protection Authority reports that. The unprotected mailing of files is simply not allowed. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u133	That's clear. It is serious that we have no idea how often it occurs. We know it happens and it's easy to hack. We've seen that. Then I would like to go to my second unanswered question. It is therefore all the more important that all employees working at a youth care institution in the Netherlands know that they should not do so. Can the Minister indicate how all staff at youth care institutions are trained on cybersecurity, cyber-hygiene, as it is called? What is the role of the inspection in that? And does the Minister see what happened last week as a reason for putting additional action on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u134	Yes, I see reason for that, namely the extra action to ask institutions to identify their own risks: see if what happened in Utrecht could happen to you too. What does that mean for the training of your employees you have to do? I don't know if there's any training as you just put it. I hear the word "cyber hygiene" for the first time, but I'm going to use it at an unexpected time tomorrow and then I look very intelligently at it. Then I shall also refer to the source. But the point is, of course, that people need to be trained in dealing with data sharing and data protection. This also has disciplinary protection in the care sector, at least for a large part of the care professionals, especially in the youth care sector. Most of the people in child care are under disciplinary law. So sharing data and being secure on data is not a question of whether one should be concerned about it; that is something one should be concerned about. This is just part of the professionalisation in the care that employers have to take care of. I hope for the following, which is why I also mentioned the word "wake-up call." In that sense Utrecht really is a wake-up call. That was a relatively small stupidity with potentially such great consequences. Luckily, he doesn't seem to have had it, but he could have. I think that all the institutions are concerned about this: could this have happened to us? What about our data security? What do we have to do about it? What can we do as an employer in the training of our employees? I think that the commitment to your colleagues Tielen and Hijink will give us a better picture of the sector as a whole. On that basis we can look at what else will be needed, but that will be around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u135	I'm gonna read a few things like the Minister, but before I do, there's something about that wake-up call. Looks like it's a little late. In 2017 played exactly this same with domain addresses within the police, so it was already known. So I guess that firefighter function didn't work out very well. Apart from that, the GDPR, which everyone has to comply with, simply describes how to send sensitive content: "Unencrypted emails should never contain sensitive information." When fully automatic e-mails are generated, Minister, there is always a link in an e-mail that refers to a web system where the recipient has to identify in one way or another. Depending on your rights, you may be able to access information. So yes, an employee has to learn that he doesn't just send sensitive information, but a decent ICT solution à la 2019 does help. We're not at MS-DOS and the Atari anymore. We're in 2019. We're going to Mars. You can just create a system. The youth care institution, also in Utrecht, simply has an expensive ICT department with an ICT director and an ICT employee. They just have to live up to this. We would not have needed all your words for the last hour. Just comply with your own rules!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u136	It is almost touching that you think that if something is in a law, it will happen tomorrow in reality. Because that's not the case. You will always have to do extra things to make sure that reality relates to the law at some point. I think that is what our debate has been about for the last hour and a half. In this case, of course, it is not allowed. Unprotected mailing is not allowed, of course, but we know that it does happen. What extra action has been taken from within the department is that an NEN standard has been requested with requirements that providers that actually deliver that type of secure mail applications to institutions that are simply commercial institutions have to comply with so that it is sufficiently safe. So: yes, we have the law, the GDPR. In addition, we have a NEN standard, which all the applications that are hired have to comply with. Then these applications have to be used by healthcare staff in an appropriate way. This is a matter of regulation but also of attitude and behaviour. It is also a question of education, as Mr Raemakers points out. In short, laws are the only way to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u137	No, certainly not if we don't try to maintain and control them, but we'll be filing a motion in a moment to force the Minister to do so. As far as your story is concerned, it is touching that we think that it has been resolved by law: when we ask questions about this, the party that sent you into the meadow also comes up with the remark that we are asking for more rules. Of course it isn't. We just want what we agreed together to be checked out. That is a task that you should take very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u138	I take them seriously, too. But the primary concern is human work. Laws don't care, systems don't care, secure systems don't care, but people care, and they sometimes make mistakes. People's behaviour and attitude is certainly as important as laws. That is why I repeat what your colleague, Mrs Kuik, has just said: it is a matter of common sense. It's about common sense in the first place. To treat another as you would like to be treated when it comes to sharing data in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u139	The Minister replied very quickly to my question on the motion. He said Minister Bruins will come back to it. The motion indeed asked for an NEN standard related to end-to-end encryption, but also for an investigation into which systems could already make this possible. The Minister didn't go into that. I'd like to hear that from him for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u140	Mr. Chairman. Then I would ask your permission to return to that in the second term, because you are asking me a little bit about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u141	Yes. Would you all like to continue with the second term immediately? That's the case. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, who speaks first. It has one third of its first-term speaking time, roughly one minute and 30 seconds. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u142	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers. It is good that we take the problem seriously: the problem that a lot of care goes wrong with the privacy of very sensitive data. Something could have gone terribly wrong here if whistleblowers but also RTL hadn't handled the data very well. We had a number of motions in preparation. I'm not going to file it, because I'm quite satisfied with a lot of the Minister's answers to my questions. I see the Minister looking a little surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u143	I've never seen him shine before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u144	I also hear from a number of colleagues that they will make a number of proposals that we may be supporting. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions for the Minister. During the debate I heard the information that many parents and young people were not informed. It is precisely this region that is at stake. Parents and young people are therefore still in uncertainty about what happened to their data and wonder whether their data is safe. Could the Minister go into that? I think it is of the utmost importance that people know if their data is safe. Mr President, my second point. The Minister indicated that there are about 6,000 providers and states in his plan of approach that he wants to reach the Netherlands through Youth Care. Now Youth Care Netherlands has a large number of members, but not all of these 6,000 providers are included. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he is going to achieve the other. Safety is very important when it comes to young people's data. We really need to ensure that all the institutions are well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u145	Thank you. Mr Edgar Mulder from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u146	Mr. Chairman. In my introduction, I asked the Minister if he was prepared to examine all the youth care agencies. The Minister came back to that in his second block by saying that he wants to have themed research done by supervisors. I'll take that as a commitment. I'd like to motivate that with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in addition to the youth care institution Together Safe Central Netherlands other institutions have also gone wrong regarding the security of medical data and the exchange of privacy-sensitive information;]] [[calls on the Government to examine all youth care institutions for compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation and to inform the Court before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-638]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u147	And then the famous cherry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the youth care institution Together Safe Central Netherlands has made a serious mistake in dealing with their clients' medical records;]] [[considers that safeguards on security and privacy protection are lacking to a large extent in this youth care institution;]] [[invites the Government to put the Youth Care Institution together Secure Central Netherlands under enhanced supervision, and to inform the Chamber monthly about the state of play,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-639]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u149	Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u150	Mr. Chairman. I think that we can be grateful to the whistleblowers and the journalists who revealed the data breach in Utrecht for the careful way in which they have done so, but also for the fact that they have given us a little wake-up call about how data security has been handled. Ultimately, the institution itself is, of course, responsible for the security of the data. But we see that everyone, including the municipalities, the Personal Data Authority and the inspection, is involved and has a certain responsibility, but that ultimately it lacks something or someone who can unexpectedly and unannounced test whether the data is in good hands. The Minister wants some sort of investigation to see what the inspection could possibly do. We think, and I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Mr Raemakers, that we should go a step further and that testing should become part of regular monitoring. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that data leaks in health care have serious consequences for children and adults in need of care;]] [[Whereas it is important to proactively test data protection for security and unauthorised access in all healthcare sectors;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with industry organisations, cybersecurity experts and ethical hackers, the Personal Data Authority and the Health and Youth Inspection to have pentests carried out at healthcare organisations in all healthcare sectors, in order to examine the possibility of accessing medical records, using minimal insight into access to medical records,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-640]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister. As far as I am concerned, the purpose of tonight's debate was to raise the trust and security of personal data and thus restore confidence to the people of the country. In this respect, I also needed a number of clear statements by this Minister tonight in order to do so. In the debate, at least the Minister shows urgency, perhaps a little more than in the letter. I'm glad to see that, because that's what I wanted to see. So that's good. I do have a few more questions. The Minister talks about the investigations carried out by SAVE Central Netherlands and the regions concerned. I am very curious when they will be available, because they may also give us more insight into other bodies. I have also heard the Minister say very clearly, as Mr Mulder said, that the relevant authorities, the IGJ and the Personal Data Authority will carry out a proactive and thematic investigation into e-health and the use of data in youth care. When can the Minister share any results of this with us? As far as I'm concerned, at the latest around summer. Mr. Chairman. I need another commitment, and I have two cliff hangers. Firstly, I would like the Minister, when he talks with the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the Personal Data Authority, to also call on these authorities to make it clear that young people and other people with signals about data insecurity can actually contact them. Then the two cliff hangers. Tomorrow there will be a debate in the city council of Utrecht. I am still getting signals from people in the Utrecht region that they have not been informed about this by SAVE. Let's call on the city council of Utrecht to put that there as well. Then the second one. Is it possible to just have a file or parts of a file destroyed? I do not need to answer that now, but I would like to come back to that next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u152	Thank you. Mr Raemakers from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u153	Thank you, Mr President. We have had a good debate on a very serious matter. D66 agrees with the Minister that digitisation can be very valuable. We also agree that cybersecurity must be a prerequisite. But I see a minister who isn't on top of it enough to wait too long. Previously, the Chamber also had to encourage the Minister to ensure that all healthcare institutions were connected to Z-CERT. And now Mr Hijink and I urge the Minister to ensure that all organisations work with pen tests structurally. We also recorded that in a motion. But I expect more. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that healthcare and ICT experts indicate that cyber security in healthcare is poor;]] [[Whereas the annual figures of the Personal Data Authority show that care and well-being is one of the sectors where most data leaks are reported;]] [[noting that cyber attacks, such as WannaCry, regularly lead to data leaks and disruption of care provision;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a plan of action to raise cybersecurity across the healthcare sector by a broad range of measures, including strengthening Z-CERT, mandatory participation of healthcare institutions in Z-CERT, training of cyber-hygiene staff, strengthening cyber-security inspection and periodic pen testing at healthcare institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-641]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u155	The last speaker from the Chamber is Mr Peters of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had a debate on the abuses... No, we did this afternoon. We were talking about a data breach. We're all taking it very seriously. I think I heard the Minister say 15 times that he takes it very seriously. I also heard that he cannot give guarantees, although he is always asked to do so. For me and for the CDA, responsibility has to do with answering. What do you do as an attitude to careful handling of data? How do you use your common sense, as was said a few times? According to the CDA, this responsibility operates through the principle of subsidiarity: first, the person himself, the employee, is responsible, then the institution, then the client, then the inspection, and finally the minister as system responsible. I did have the occasional feeling tonight that we think the Minister should do the most personal thing himself. I don't think that's possible. We all ask questions, too. More research questions. How often does something happen? Then we're gonna have to go to the turds. Control of all settings. Who's gonna do that? How much time is that gonna take? What are we gonna do with that? We're gonna hack and then we're gonna put it in the paper, so I heard Mr. Hijink say. The question is, what does that do with people's trust? I don't think so. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas errors such as the data breach at Together Safe Central Netherlands are usually the result of a human error and/or failure to comply with existing rules and protocols;]] [[Whereas when such errors come to light, the reflex is usually that new, stricter rules should be introduced;]] [[Considers that this risk rule reflex causes more damage in the long term because it encourages risk-avoidance behaviour and bureaucracy;]] [[calls on the government to engage with youth services organisations to improve compliance with existing rules and protocols and to adopt new rules only if there is a genuine lack of existing rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-642]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u157	Mr Hijink, Mr Raemakers and I all jumped up at the same time because this is a bit weird. I have heard a number of people here say that we need to better comply with existing legislation, that we need to focus on existing instruments. I don't think I've heard anyone propose a new set of rules in motions, but I've heard some pilots.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u158	A broad palette of new rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u159	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u160	Mr President, I think this is a very special motion and I would like to point out that we have had this debate in a good way, that we as a Chamber are responsible for controlling the Minister. I have not heard a whole new set of rules here, and I would like to give it up. Of course, that is not up to me, but I think my point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u161	No support from GroenLinks for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u162	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u163	But may I respond to that, because I have just heard a motion asking for a very wide range of new measures, so yes. Anyway, you didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u164	I am really disturbed by Mr Peters' nothing-to-the-hand attitude. You say that we have had a very serious debate, but from your input in the first term and again, I am just saying that you are saying that a bit of a healthy farmer's understanding is going to be all right. Of course, that's not the point. Mr Raemakers and I are asking for pen tests, for more control and supervision, but that is not a new set of rules. That is that something or someone stands up at some point to ensure that the rules that are there are also respected. That there is something or someone who can intervene in time when there are risks of dangerous data leaks and that we do not stand here every time the calf has already drowned. That is exactly what the whole debate was about. I think that Mr Peters is not only failing himself here, but also putting the whole debate down as 'let's use a little common sense, we'll be fine'. I think that's really bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u165	If I had, that would be bad, too, Mr. Hijink. I didn't want to do that. I have also said a few times that careful handling of data is extremely important, very important. You have said it, I said it, everyone has said it: this could have gone horribly wrong, and it could have caused enormous damage to a lot of people. So I think that's very important. What I've been trying to indicate, and I'm gonna say it again here, is our reflex for new rules. I'm not talking about your motion, because it's not about new rules. I have just mentioned a few: control of all the institutions, a wide range of new measures. I'm not making that up. Those are motions that have just been filed. I respond to that and say: I think it is very important to ensure that we enforce the existing rules properly and that people do what they are trained to do and what they should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u166	Mr Raemakers briefly, because I think the point has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u167	I really only have one very brief question to Mr Peters, to the CDA. Do you trust municipalities, do you always trust institutions on their blue eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u168	No, of course not. Trust involves a certain degree of control, but that does not mean that we can control everything up to the square centimeters or give guarantees. You ask me a question I agree with. No, I don't always trust everyone on their blue eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u169	Very good. Was this your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u170	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u171	Thank you very much for that. Can the Minister respond immediately to the motions and all that? He asked for six and a half minutes. His time starts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u172	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the questions and the motions tabled in the second term. I think it was a good and thorough debate and we have work to do. I'd like to work on that. I think it is good for now if I give the questions to the answers, sorry, the other way around, give the answers to the questions that have been asked. It is a late one today and the motions will provide a ruling from the cabinet. First there is the question of GroenLinks, and that is actually the same question that Mrs Tielen also asked, about the parents who apparently have not been informed in all respects. I have just indicated that the parents will be informed via a general message on the website of SAVE Central Netherlands. In addition, a separate e-mail address and telephone number has been opened on which everyone can ask about their data. In addition, the daily contact between SAVE Central Netherlands and parents and children can address these kinds of questions. All employees have been calculated on that. When it comes to letters that are sent anyway, there will always be an information sheet on which this case will be further clarified. It keeps track of whether a client has received such a letter because of receiving correspondence from SAVE Central Netherlands at all. In addition, the family workers of the neighbourhood teams have been informed. That's about what you could do to reach the group as best you can. At the same time, of course, SAVE Central Netherlands also has former clients who want to know what's going on. They cannot all be approached proactively in advance, because addresses may have changed. If you accidentally take the risk of e-mailing or writing to an old address, you're just going to create a data leak. There may indeed be parents or children who have not yet been informed. The best solution is to take action in the direction of SAVE Central Netherlands, if you receive such signals, via that e-mail address or telephone number mentioned on the website. In addition, I will transmit that signal as you convey it to Utrecht so that people can act accordingly. GroenLinks rightly made a point about the providers who are not members of Youth Care Netherlands. Of course, we have to want to reach them. I'm going to see how we can do that through other industry organisations. There is an industry organisation for small youth care providers, but if you add them up, you don't have them all. We're gonna make sure we reach all the providers as best we can. Then I come to the motion on part No. 638 of the PVV, who asks all youth care institutions to check whether they comply with the GDPR and to inform the Chamber about this. In the light of the thematic research I have promised, it seems to me that this overdoing is not so easy to implement, because it concerns more than 6,000 youth care institutions. That seems to me to be a rather unworkable thing to do. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 639 asks the government to put the youth care institution together Safe Central Netherlands under enhanced supervision. Of course, it doesn't work that way. The inspection shall make observations and may, on that basis, proceed to enforcement measures. The inspection is independent in its judgment and independent in taking action, fortunately. So I'm going to dissuade this motion, too. Then we have the motion in part no. 640. The SP invites the government, in cooperation with industry organisations, cybersecurity experts and ethical hackers, to have the AP and the Health and Youth Health Inspectorate run pen tests at healthcare organisations. If you mean to do so in the light of a thematic inquiry as I have indicated to you to be willing to do so, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'm not going to perform a separate action or separate investigation on it. If that's what you're saying, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u174	Yes, but I would like to take it into account that my idea is that this can become part of the method of inspection, even after the study proposed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u175	Yes, we could, but we're looking at whether or not it's necessary on the basis of the thematic research. In that context, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 641 calling on the government to come up with a plan of action by the summer to raise cybersecurity across the healthcare sector through a wide range of measures, including strengthening Care-CERT, mandatory participation in Care-CERT, training of cyber-hygiene employees, strengthening cyber-security inspection and periodic pen testing. You can look at this motion in a number of ways. You can say that it is about what I have just explained in the debate to do. We'll do that thematic research. Pen tests will be discussed. We will ensure that we look with the municipality and with Childcare Netherlands to see what we need to strengthen on the basis of their own observations: what risks are there and what risks need to be taken away? We will investigate the obligation to participate in Care-CERT. A motion had already been tabled by Mrs Ellemeet. I have indicated that it is not so much the question of whether, but more the question of how we are going to do that. With what implications will we find out and how will we do that? If you look at it that way, that's about what we plan to do. But I think we really should do it that way. In order to order a very large plan in advance, while we should first, with Youth Care Netherlands and as wide a reach as possible, of course, in the youth care sector, see what extra is needed. Also on the basis of the theme research we need to see what extra will be needed. Then I think it is best in the order of things if we do that first and then, on that basis, see which approach is best suited. In that order. I do not think it is wise to make a plan of action at the same time as the actions we set out. I think that we are going to be organizing a great deal of fuss at the same time, including for the institutions that need to constipate all of this. It's not the only assignment they get from us. We have a youth care debate every few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u176	This motion must also really be seen in the context of the debate we held tonight on the letter that was sent by Minister Bruins last week. Minister De Jonge said this evening: I will look again at that letter, whether there is sufficient consideration of cybersecurity. I took the letter with me, too. It contains a very short passage on cyber security. That's nowhere near what we want. The word "privacy" is not even mentioned in the letter. So I got a conditional commitment today. Actually, I don't think that's enough. In that light, this motion must be seen. For the summer there really needs to be a more detailed version of that letter from last week. All these elements must be taken into account and it must be ensured that it all happened before the summer. That's just to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u177	Yeah, that doesn't make it any easier in judgment, by the way. I told you you could look at it in a number of ways. Or it's about what we're gonna do, but then I'd say, let's do things in the right order. Namely, first the theme research to see what extra would be needed. Pen tests are involved. In addition, the actions we will take in collaboration with the VNG, Youth Care Netherlands and the other industry organisations. But I'd like to do it in the right order. I would like to do that first and then see what is needed as a plan of action. Now, however, you refer to that letter from last week. It is about making data standards mandatory when exchanging data in healthcare. I don't see exactly what the motion and the letter have to do with each other. The letter is about digitizing care and that is a different type of theme from what the debate this evening was about. This was a side-step in that debate, and that is what I said: security is a sine qua non. Has there been sufficient attention paid to it in that letter? You've already been able to read it. I haven't been able to read it yet. I said I'd read the letter and I'd come back to it. I will write you an additional letter stating that we are going to write the letter on the exchange of data, security and how we guarantee it. I have already promised you that, but I really do see that as something other than the motion you have before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u178	That's the point. It is clear here that a plan of action is needed to bring cybersecurity to a higher level throughout the healthcare sector. This is precisely about the fact that if we want to make the exchange of information, including electronic information, easier, and that is what we really need to do, then security must always be a prerequisite. Last week's leak shows that we just need to take more steps in that. In his reply, the Minister once again dismisses a number of matters. He wants to investigate a few things first. That is why I have put it in writing, and that is why I tabled this motion: to state very clearly what D66 thinks should happen before the summer, so as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u179	Then I think it's best to just dissuade the motion, otherwise we're going to have a very exegetical situation about exactly what we should read in this motion. I think what we're doing is about what's written here, though I'd like to do it in the right order. I don't want a thematic research and a plan of approach mixed up, but first I want to do one thing to see what you have to write down in the other. So first do a thematic research to see what you need to write in the plan of approach. I always find that order a nice way of working. This motion actually puts it the other way around, or at least at the same time. That is a little less appealing to me, and that is why I attach a little more importance to what I have just promised you. The question of security, data exchange and data protection, and making those data standards mandatory, I really think is a different question. I'm gonna go and I'm gonna be able to answer that one loose. Before that, I'll read the letter again. By the way, the third letter on data exchange will be published before the summer. I will ensure that safety is at least discussed in detail. But in the context of one, namely the commitments I have already made, and the context of the other commitment I have already made, I am going to discourage this motion, also in order to avoid all kinds of mystification. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 642 by Mr Peters, who called on organisations to discuss better compliance with the existing rules and only to adopt new rules if there was a real lack of compliance with the existing rules. I could respond to that a little bit in the same way. There are two ways of looking at this. That's how I'm in it. Rules can sometimes be necessary. Any obligation to participate, for example, in Zorg-CERT would really be a new rule, which I would therefore like to examine carefully the implications before we meet each other. You could also say: let's do things here in the right order. Let us get to work as I have just promised, see what extra is needed, and then make a plan of action. Then it's up to you to keep each other and me sharp and ask the question: aren't we going to come up with new rules for nothing? I would like to ask you: do you really need this motion to be able to trust that the cabinet is doing the right thing? That's a question of conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u180	No, Mr. Chairman. I trust when the Minister tells me to do it in the spirit of what we have said. Then I withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u182	Since the Peters motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u183	Das war es dann: get to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u184	Well, don't cheer too soon, because we still have Mrs. Tielen on offer for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u185	Excuse me. I stand very bravely by working my stack of motions, while I have a whole list of questions from Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u186	Yes, and everyone accepted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u187	Seemed to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u188	With the exception of... That cliffhanger is for next week, so you don't have to respond to it, but just a moment to ask when the investigations around SAVE are available and the question about the conversation with the IGJ and AP about the possibility of reporting from people from the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u189	Yes. One is the research of SAVE and Utrecht. I expect that around the summer. As soon as these investigations are available, I will also report to you on what the lessons to be drawn are. I also hope a little around the summer, because that would mean that I can combine that with the results of the talks we have with the VNG and with the Dutch Child Welfare Agency. Then I can distill out what additional action needs to be taken. The second point concerns a question which you asked in the first period and which I did not respond sufficiently to in my first period. Is it now clear to everyone where they can come forward? One can report to the inspection and one can report to the AP. So it can be both and it should not really matter which of the two people calls: 'no room by' must be the starting point, because the inspection and the AP both have work to do here. If it's each other's work, then it's up to the inspection and the AP to resolve that between themselves. I have been assured that this is done in this way. Whoever you call will be contacted behind the scenes so that the question can also be adequately answered. I have already answered the question about the information in the direction of Mrs Westerveld. Then I come to the cliffhanger question, but let's deal with it next week, because the answer is quite detailed and quite long. But the answer is a form of "yes": it is indeed possible to destroy things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u190	A form of "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u191	Under conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u192	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen, are you going to stop for us today? Come on in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I have not yet heard an answer to a question about my motion on end-to-end encryption. It was then about when the investigation would take place and about the possibility of end-to-end encryption in the current systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u194	That's too bad. I had such a heroic final agreement in mind and then it ends with the fact that I have to confess to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that I do not have the answer to this question, but that I will have to return to it in writing in a wonderful letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u195	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-13.u196	On Tuesday we will vote on the remaining four motions.
