ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the General Political Reviews, I see. The whole cabinet has been pulled out! I understand you're gonna stay in the voting as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u2	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Buma from the CDA. Mr Buma has written a farewell letter, which I am now going to read out. Madam President, dear Khadija, Sybrand left the group. This message has been going around in all kinds of app groups in and around the Binnenhof for a week. It's very final, such a whatsapp farewell. I don't know what's gonna be said about me after that. For a quarter of a century I worked at the Binnenhof. On 1 March 1994 I became a policy officer at the CDA, with a fraction of 54 seats, a parliament in itself. But I was hazing fast. Three months after my arrival, the party lost twenty seats in the Lower House elections. In May 2002, I became MP after turbulent elections and a historical profit for the CDA. In 2010 I became the group chairman and in 2012 I became the leader of the CDA. There were elections again soon. There was another loss, but in 2017 the profit followed again. People often say you have to be vain in politics. That's not true. Politics can't be without self-relation. Today's profit is tomorrow's loss. Whoever gets hoarded today can be hoisted on the shield tomorrow. We are in this Chamber with a different view of society. Our deepest motives are all different, but in the end we all want the best for our country. That's what binds us. Society is changing. Politics is under pressure. We all feel that every day. This does not always make parliamentary work easier. The Chamber inevitably changes too, sometimes for the better, but not always. Good thing our research function has been strengthened in recent years. We've conducted groundbreaking surveys and surveys. Soon the first mini-survey will start. That's a milestone. Another improvement is that the opposition coalition distinction has become much smaller. This is mainly due to the narrow, often variable majorities. It is also good that in choosing our President party colour or coalition force no longer plays any role. This applies to more and more functions. Unfortunately, it doesn't just get better. The debate is more polarized than ever. Members of Parliament are openly under attack from colleagues, not only in the debate, but also on social media. And then there are the hyperinflation of urgent debates, the increasingly political explanations of vote, the endless roll-call votes and the motion avalanche, which is so enormous that almost no one on Tuesday afternoon knows what he has voted for or against. I'm afraid all this doesn't bring back trust. A respectful and honest debate within the rules of the game can do that. It is said that Parliament must speak the language of the street, but I am afraid that the street is more ashamed of the language of Parliament now and then. After today, I myself am one of the 17 million Dutch who are represented by you. Do that nicely, please. I look forward to working for the inhabitants of the municipality of Leeuwarden. I'm gonna keep working on the public case. I can't help myself. I'm going to work in the county where I'm from. Less political, more administrative. My switch to Leeuwarden also has a personal side. In 1931, my grandfather Sybrand Marinus of Haersma Buma became mayor of Stavoren, the second smallest of the Frisian eleven cities. In 1938, he was appointed to the larger municipality of Wymbritseradeel. His career was broken prematurely by his resignation from the German occupation. In 1942, he was killed in a German concentration camp. Every time I walked out through Binnenhof 1a over the past few years, I looked for a moment to see if the page of the List of Honor of Fallen was not accidentally opened in his name. The few times that was so, I gave a quiet greeting to that I became quiet again. My father was mayor of Workum, where I was born, and of Sneek, the second largest of the eleven cities. On August 26th, I hope to be installed as mayor of Leeuwarden. In the mayor's room I'm going to involve, from 1813 to 1818 was my enchanted great-great-great-grandfather Bernardus Buma. Going to Leeuwarden feels like coming home. I'm leaving. Time to say goodbye. I thank you, Mr President, and my fellow Members for their collegiality. I've always experienced it through all the differences. I will miss my colleagues and colleagues as friends. I would like to thank the staff of the Chamber, some of whom I worked with for 25 years. Thanks to the journalists, who always wrote so uncritically about me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u3	...and to the cartoonists who gave my nose mythical proportions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u4	I thank the officers that day in, day out in, guarding our security and the marshals who do so outside. Sybrand really left the group after all. Good luck to you all. Sybrand Buma."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u5	Dear Mr. Van Haersma Buma, dear Sybrand, On 5 September 2002, this Chamber discussed a legislative proposal on the use of DNA as a special detection method. It was your fire baptism as a Member of Parliament. In your maiden speech, you welcomed the fact that this bill would ever come up again, namely at your farewell. Because remembering such a first debate, that was tradition in the farewell word for every outgoing MP. At least that's what you were told. And whether your goodbye would be in four, eight, twelve or sixteen years, we'd come back to it. I'm gonna have to disappoint you a little bit. I will not go into the content of the bill in detail. I only call it because you already knew: "One day I'll fly away," as Karin Bloemen recently sang to you at the celebration of 100 years of universal suffrage. That flight away from The Hague will be very accustomed for you and for the Chamber. The Binnenhof was your second home for 25 years, almost half your life. So you lasted longer as a Member of Parliament than that maximum estimate from your maiden speech. But now the end is in sight. Dear Sybrand, we know you have a great passion for politics. You're a file eater and an agile debater. You also like to entrust your political insights to the paper. But you're also a sportsman. We know you like rowing, cycling and more skating. In all these sports, you're a man of long distances, a stayer. That's how you were in politics. You slowly built up your career and took advantage of your experience by getting stronger and stronger in the race, from station to station, just like the Elfstedentocht, which you skated in the eighties. From an associate you became a MP, from a member of parliament you became a group leader and from an opposition leader you became a government partner. At the CDA you are known as the man who brought peace and kept the unity in a turbulent time, and who brought the party back to the center of power, to the right of the center and with emphasis on norms and values. In the Chamber you were also keen on pure political practices. At the last General Political Reviews, where a lot and rough was played on the man, you showed your displeasure about that publicly. "Children are listening too," you said. When forming the last majority cabinet, you were a supporting force, one of the architects of a complex building. Especially in the major debates, you increasingly showed yourself as a politician who wants to use the great Christian-democratic values to solve the problems of today, beyond the delusion of the day. You're a long track skater, keeper of good manners, reliable and responsible. But you're also a destabilizer. You yourself have always been annoyed by the amount of motions and roll-call votes. That's what you wrote in your letter. But I can remember a 2009 debate on the children's pardon, then also a loaded subject. Hans Spekman and Ed Anker tabled an amendment, which was put to the vote. During the vote you looked around, walked to the interrupt microphone and asked for a roll-call vote. Because at that moment you realized that a delegation from the Chamber was going to a climate conference in Copenhagen. The amendment was rejected by one vote. If the delegation had stayed at home, or if there had been a group vote, the amendment would have been adopted. This is not only an example of how you can disrupt; it also shows that you control the rules and feel flawlessly when and how you can deploy them. And where in the beginning of your group presidency you were sometimes worn out for sturdy, you rematched with your humour. When Max van Weezel and Thijs Broer van Vrij Nederland once confronted you with the fact that the Prime Minister had placed you as a "wrapped toddler," you replied: "Was it true. I wish he'd told me. He called me a pouting toddler." When you were asked who the winner was in one of the last election debates, you answered, "That was me." And that's for a man who got the countless rules about how it's supposed to be poured in with the spoon. You told yourself a number of times in different interviews how as a member of a driver's family you once got caught up in those rules. After, as a child, during a trip to Amsterdam, you let the whole family go first in an elevator, you were the only one standing outside while the elevator left. You did the right thing, but you forgot yourself. But you also told me about the other side of the luggage you got from home, about the beautiful side of all those values: moving you into another, showing respect, being proud of traditions that determine your identity and taking responsibility. From your entire family history, it's a family full of directors... it turns out that pride and sense of responsibility are really in the genes. That's the DNA I like to memorize here at your farewell. Dear Sybrand, "One day I'll fly away"; that day has now come. But before you finally fly away to Friesland, I want to give you two more things, literally. The first is something that is normally reserved for Chamber officials and political group staff who have been working for the Lower House for 25 years, but today I give it to you: a silver cow. 'Cause for a long time, you were a party employee. You know the Chamber from the inside and have meant a lot to the Chamber both behind and to the scenes. That's why I'm giving you another gift. His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you knight in the Order of Orange-Nassau. May I ask you to step forward so that I can pin down the decorations that are part of this appointment and, of course, to hand you the cheek?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you so much for everything you've meant for national politics. I'm suspending the meeting for the congratulations and the goodbye.
