ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the VSO JHA Council of 6 and 7 June 2019, part asylum and immigration policy. I welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I thought it would be good if the Minister had one chance to act as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Well, that's tonight. Mr. Chairman. In Libya, an estimated 3,000 migrants are trapped in camps close to the line of fire. Evacuations are taking place in Libya and from Libya to Niger. Fortunately, sometimes resettlement is also taking place. Italy, Germany and in particular Switzerland have made their contribution. It would be a good idea for the EU to work together on this. It would also be good if the Netherlands provided its share. The Netherlands has a resettlement programme for vulnerable refugees. If one group is vulnerable, it is these refugees who are now trapped in Libya. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that several thousand migrants in Libya are trapped in detention centres close to the frontline of the civil war and therefore at risk of becoming victims of war violence;]] [[noting that Italy, Germany and Switzerland have already taken the initiative to resettle a number of migrants from these camps;]] [[calls on the Government to recommend to the JHA Council that Member States support the evacuation of migrants from Libyan detention centres by allowing for resettlement in the EU for some of them, including in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Ojik, Jasper van Dijk and Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-555]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u3	I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Van Ojik is right to draw attention to the situation in Libya, especially in detention camps. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the inflammable military violence in Libya is causing a serious humanitarian situation for part of the Libyan population and the migrants present in Libya, especially refugees and migrants trapped in detention centres;]] [[noting that the UNHCR called on the international community to make efforts to improve the situation and to assist those affected;]] [[Calls on the Government in the JHA Council to promote the use of robust political and diplomatic means for the evacuation from the Libyan detention centres of refugees recognised by UNHCR to Niger and other migrants to their country of origin, giving priority to minors, women and the elderly;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts in the JHA Council to make a firm commitment to the "more for more and less for less" principle vis-à-vis countries that refuse to take back their nationals from Libya,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen, Mr Becker, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-556]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u5	I am not quite ready, but I would like to ask Mr Groothuizen, as the author of the motion, in which the motion differs from what the Minister has already promised this afternoon in replying to the written questions we have put.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u6	Above all, the motion makes it very clear that we must strive for a lasting solution. I see this sustainable solution along the following lines. Many people trapped in Libya are not necessarily refugees in terms of international law. It is also just economic migrants who are trapped under very bad conditions. I see two tracks. I believe that people who fall into that category should be repatriated to the country of origin via the IOM as soon as possible. The real refugees, a smaller group that is there too, must be brought to Niger as soon as possible through the Gathering and Departure Facility working in Libya, and we have heard from Mr Grandi this afternoon that he is still working fortunately, and from which they can be re-established. That underlines this motion. I think that, quite frankly, is a little clearer in this than in the sometimes vague reply I received from the cabinet this afternoon. Moreover, this underlines once again, as I did not see it so well in the reply that countries of origin also have an obligation to take back their own nationals. I think there should be balance in this. That's what I've been trying to put down in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u7	On that last point, which is ultimately the solution for a lot of people to return to their country of origin, we quickly agree. But what matters is that a group of people is being brought to Niger, for example, where capacity is filling up very quickly. The content of the motion tabled by my colleagues and myself is that resettlement should be possible in European countries, including the Netherlands. That's what our motion is asking for. I can actually hear you saying that it should be possible. Does that mean that you will also support the motion that I tabled together with colleagues Van Dijk and Kikken? Because you could see them as complementary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u8	A brief response, Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u9	Not entirely, and that is because Mr Van Ojik's motion does not distinguish between migrants and refugees. You have to make that distinction. I just tried to explain that. Besides, I'm missing the other side of his motion. Thirdly, when we talk about what this adds, the government writes in its letter that people from Libya are already being resettled in the Netherlands under the current programme. In itself, therefore, this is an ongoing policy. With this motion I have tried, above all, to underline a structural solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. My two minutes are somewhat spontaneous, but that is mainly because we had a good conversation with UNHCR. If I combine this with the fact that this Minister has a brief task of having asylum with him, but there will soon be a new Secretary of State who will also have to deal with something, I would like to ask him urgently the following. We have had to hear again that the Jezidis' position is so serious that all refugee organisations are really worried, including the Dutch policy, that we sometimes think we can send the Jezidis back to camps in the Netherlands because it may be a safe area where they have been. But they're camps where the Jezidis aren't safe. There's a serious concern. Can I ask the Minister whether he would like to give the specific concern for this extremely vulnerable group, the most traumatized group, to his colleague as one of the priorities? We all remember the images of how these people were on the mountain and couldn't find their safe passage anywhere. I'm saying it here now from the CDA, but we talked about it widely this afternoon. As a Chamber, we are deeply concerned about how the Jezidis are doing. Can I ask the Minister to give this real priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. The Minister is ready to deal with the motions and answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr President, thank you. This is a special moment. However, it is not legal as Mr Van Ojik suggested, because I fear that I will have to disappoint him, and I hope not to disappoint you. Because I'm not acting as Secretary of State here. This part of the portfolio has just fallen back to me as Minister of Justice and Security. In this respect, I would very much like to invite Mr Van Ojik to review with me at the Ministry once again how it is governed by state law. The motion by Mr Ojik and Mr Van Dijk I shall not recommend. Several EU Member States have responded in different ways to the UNHCR's call. Italy has indeed evacuated 300 people directly from Tripoli as humanitarian evacuations. Most of the EU Member States, including the Netherlands, do not have permission on the grounds of evacuation. Also for reasons of safety and care is re-established from Niger through the UNHCR Emergency Transit Mechanism, ETN. That process is now being accelerated as far as possible. The Netherlands also reconfirms via ETN. Last year about 50 people were selected to travel to the Netherlands quickly. In view of the capacity in Niger, there are sufficient commitments to resettlement for the time being. Finally, I should like to say that in the very short time that I have drawn this part of the portfolio back to me, I have been able to see that the Netherlands is only relocating refugees and not, as requested in the motion, migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u14	Please continue. I see Mr Voordewind, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u15	I come to the motion by Mr Grootehuizen, Mr Becker, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Voordewind on part No. 556. I cannot share Mr Grothuizen's idea that my commitments in this afternoon's letter were vague. As such, at least I would not qualify for commitments from myself. I do understand, however, the more concrete interpretation of the withdrawal by the country of origin in the first part of the motion. So as such, I can leave that motion to judge Chamber. Finally, I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's point. I would like to assure you that I will bring to the attention of my successor in this portfolio, the new Secretary of State to be appointed, the issue of the Jezidis, which is of great interest to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u16	I do not want to miss the opportunity to thank the Minister for the lesson of state law he has given me. It's always good to light something up on such a night. I understand he's detaching my motion and pre-advising the coalition's motion. It would be very unique if it were to be the other way around tonight in a manner of speaking. I understand. It's about the argument. The Minister's actually saying two things. The first is, we're already doing it. And the second is: we only resettle refugees and not migrants. Well, refugees are also migrants, so you could say that with a small editorial adjustment that can be arranged. My question is very specific. Given the acute emergency situation in Libya and Niger, where many people are being evacuated, is the Minister prepared to do something extra, as Germany and Italy are doing something extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u17	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u18	I'd like to finish my sentence. He has the space for it, because the resettlement programme, which now covers 50 people, offers room for 500 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u19	I've been very clear. The Netherlands is currently relocating through that ETN. The process is accelerated as far as possible. I want to wait and see how that is going to work and then see if there is any reason to make additional efforts. Whether I come back to you or whether the Secretary of State, who may be back in the future, will do so, will have to learn that same future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u20	I have one factual question. We have just received the written reply, and it says that the Netherlands has now repatriated 75 people, re-established, from Niger. And I read in another answer that it was going to be 25, and 50 in the planning. Can the Minister tell us what it is? Have we done 75 already or are the 50 still in the planning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u21	It's a number that actually adds up to 75 in total. Those 50 have now been selected for travel. The term "planning" may have been used for this purpose, but it is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u22	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO JHA Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-12.u23	We shall vote on the motions tabled tomorrow.
