ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the progress made on the legislative proposal, the first deadline for which took place yesterday from the Chamber: Bill 35013, Amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act to accelerate housing and facilitate sustainable development, such as the sustainability of energy use. I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations back to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. I begin by saying that I am pleased that we can have this debate here today, which started yesterday, on the proposal to amend the Crisis and Recovery Act. I think this is a very special legal procedure. We had a maiden speech yesterday at this stage of the term of office of the First Chamber. Congratulations, Mrs. Gout. In addition, in this debate, as they have also appointed it, we are probably witnessing the last oral input of a number of Members: Mrs Meijer and Mr Flierman. It is also remarkable that I find Mrs Teunissen here for the second time to deal with this bill. Finally, I would also like to thank Mrs Klip in this list. It has expressed appreciation and support in its contribution. She hasn't actually asked any questions, but that's exactly what I've experienced as firm support. I'd like to thank her for that. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I will make a few general comments and then begin the reply. I thought it would be useful to give you the order of the answer. I start with the legal side of the questions: the project implementation decision, the ministerial regulation and the involvement of the board, the involvement of citizens, the evaluation and monitoring, the criteria for the designation of experiments and the relationship between the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Environment Act. Then I come to the questions about housing. Finally, I have a single question which I could not include in the above-mentioned headings. Some of the speakers referred to it yesterday, so I will start with the history of the Crisis and Recovery Act. It's not for nothing that he's a Crisis and Recovery Act. That is because it was indeed born in the time of the economic crisis as an impulse that was then found necessary. It entered into force in 2010. It was valid until January 1, 2014. In 2013, he became permanent, i.e. permanently until the entry into force of the Environment Act. I believe it was Mr Binnema who recalled that the entry into force of the Environment Act was according to the original planning in 2017. It has therefore been postponed, as the law is not expected to enter into force until 2021. The reason for continuity up to the Environment Act was twofold at the time. That had to do with the fight against crisis. Back then, too. In addition, when I was able to talk about 'we' in the institutional sense, we felt that there was a need for permanent attention to economic structural strengthening. So when things got better and we all got out of the crisis, we wanted to continue with those opportunities. Continuing opportunities is what I still think is important, combined with improvements in the instruments that are usable and included in this legislative proposal. Actually, I filed the bill with two important goals. The first is that it contributes to today's social task. I would like to answer the questions about housing later. There is currently a considerable shortage of homes in the Netherlands. There's a lot to be done. With this bill in hand, we can do more and work on it faster. The second important objective is that this bill makes it easier to practice with the new Environment Act. An environmental plan has been started and this makes the transition easier because municipalities can practice with the environmental plan. After all, the Environment Act is a major change in the system. There are 143 municipalities already using the zoning plan with wider scope. The VNG does not call this change of law the transition law for nothing. That says enough as far as I'm concerned. Some of you have asked whether the procedures are still careful and whether they are not moving too quickly. I think that's a relevant question. The same applies to questions concerning the involvement of the Council of State and the involvement of citizens, which I will go into a little more detail later, as well as to the question of how I weigh the opinion of the Council of State on this point. These are all relevant points that will be discussed in the near future. Once again, helping local authorities in their task of housing is an important goal of this law. The adaptation of the project implementation decision should help in this respect. That is the first issue I would like to deal with today in the answer. A number of Members have asked questions about this. I refer to Mr Binnema, Mrs Gout and Mr Verheijen. Mr Binnema started by asking why relatively little use is actually being made of the project implementation decision. That's right. In the early years following the entry into force of the Crisis and Recovery Act, it was 21, but not after that. We've been watching that. There have been conversations about it. There were a number of causes. One: that it was not possible to phase. Two: that some relevant permits could not be taken, for permissions under the Nature Protection Act for example. And the environmental permit with the application of the coordination scheme under the Spatial Planning Act also offers a rapid procedure. The current legislative proposal removes these obstacles. This makes the project implementation decision more attractive and procedurally a quick alternative to project realisation. On this same subject yesterday I experienced concern among several parties about the involvement of the city council in that project implementation decision. The draft law has chosen to shift the power to take a project implementing decision to the College of B and W. This brings the project implementation decision into line with the Wabo and the Environment Act. In the bill, mayor and aldermen are only competent for project implementation decisions for housing projects if the project fits within the zoning plan or the structural vision. That was, by the way, an amendment by the House of Representatives, the Van Eijs amendment. In that case, of course, the board has already been involved in the front. In addition, by way of derogation from the zoning plan, the Board is still involved through a declaration of no objection. If the Board agrees, the project implementation decision may be taken. In other words, the board itself is competent or always involved in the project where the project implementation decision is taken. Mr Verheijen said that yesterday, in view of the introduction of the Environmental Law, with regard to the position of the city council, I would say no. The jurisdiction lies with B and W. The environmental permit now applies under the Wabo and later under the Environment Act. It's gonna stay that way. This bill will also apply to the project implementation decision, again as appropriate within land use plans or structural visions. The position of the city council is and will remain secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u4	I did ask questions on this point. I don't really think the reference to the Wabo is so important anymore. After all, we are moving towards a whole new system in which the Wabo is incorporated, but we have also received all kinds of new insights into the integration of legislation, which goes further than the Wabo has ever imagined. In this context, the debate on citizens' participation opportunities and the way in which the city council itself can set frameworks for participation and consultation is also important. We see that in the amendment to the introduction law in March last year, the House of Representatives wanted it to be tighter and more literally laid down in the law than the purpose of this amendment to the Crisis and Recovery Act. This raises the question of what is the determining factor in the final implementation of the Environmental Act. What is the point of amendment, amendment Ronnes, amendment Van Eijs, amendment Smeulders, in March in the House of Representatives, in order to strengthen the position of the city council or what is important in this change? And is that going to continue in the period after 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u5	Mr Verheijen asks a good question, a fair question and a complicated question, which runs a little through the different subjects. It's about what I was just talking about, the involvement of citizens, the relationship of the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Environment Act. I have just argued that this amended Crisis and Recovery Act is a transition law to use the word of the VNG but on the way to that new Environment Act. The Environment Act is a major change in the system, for which we have gone through a very careful process, also with this Chamber, precisely in order to do it right and to make it compatible. I believe that the answer to Mr Verheijen's question is strictly that the law is guiding when it applies. If this law is adopted, including the amendments I have just mentioned, that is what applies. At the same time, we are trying to set up the new system of the Environment Act in such a way that it is in line with it and that, by means of these adjustments, we are already pre-empting how municipalities will be able to cope with it in the new system. As I said, it is a complicated question and therefore a complicated answer. I am sure that Mr Verheijen knows exactly what I mean, but I do not know whether that applies to everyone in the Netherlands who is listening to this debate. I think that's how it is. I do not know whether Mr Verheijen would like to put another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u6	He did make some moves, but I don't know if he'll finally get to the microphone. Mr Verheijen, are they movements or are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u7	I think it would be wise for the Minister not to assume that I understand. We need to hear from her exactly how we should understand it in general in the Netherlands. That is why I would ask her to explain exactly what legislation is in the near future from 2021, when the implementation law is actually put into effect, and what that means for the amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act that is now before us. In my view, that means that the amendments adopted in the course of the process of introducing the law are derogatory, that is to say, overcast, to what is going on here. This concerns in particular the question of strengthening the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u8	I am going to agree with Mr Verheijen. If we agree on things about the involvement of the city council or the participation of citizens, and lay down those agreements in this legislative amendment, we think that is important, and then we need to ensure that in the Environment Act, in which we try to build on what works well, we give a place to civic participation and the involvement of municipal councils. It is a purely legal matter, and that is where my answer to the question is, of course, that the law which applies applies. Soon that, I hope, will be this modified Crisis and Recovery Act. For the Environment Act, we are going through a careful route towards introduction by 2021. At that time, the Crisis and Recovery Act no longer applies, as it will then be replaced by the Environment Act. We call this phase a transition and we use that transition as well and as evil as we can to gain experience in advance. The experiences on this point are relevant and, as far as I am concerned, we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u9	One final point. Your answer is clear as to what is going to happen when the Environment Act enters into force. At the same time, you are still positive about the present change in the process of gaining experience and making experiments possible. However, there is a remark that it does not lay down the position of the city council as we would like it to be in the long term, if the Environment Act is in force. That also raises the question of ""that is a second question," but perhaps you will come to the question of whether it is desirable to use different legal bases with a duration much beyond 2021 and which may be in force until 2025 according to the duration of the experimental scheme. This can create very different legal positions for citizens, but also for municipal councils if they want to take a position in relation to citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u10	But now I have to check whether Mr Verheijen and I disagree on the position of the city council. In reply to Mr Verheij's interruption, I argued that the position of the city council was and remains secure. I think that is a very important point. I explained on sections when the college and the city council are in position. The city council is actually always in position. If there is a deviation from the zoning plan or from the structural vision, the Board should agree or make a statement of no reservations. This will also apply to the project implementation decision with this legislative proposal. The city council may also designate cases in which it considers that this is not necessary. I believe that in local democracy and the relationship between local government and the controlling power, which is the city council, a very good balance has been found in which this city council is not out of play at all. On the contrary, the city council itself decides when the council should decide or when the college of B and W can and will hold that authority. I see that point differently from what Mr Verheijen now seems to suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u11	Finally, Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u12	I would like to repeat two points from my contribution. Other groups also discussed this point yesterday. This applies to the environmental permit and the route decision in which the board does not take part. When it comes to parts of zoning plans that are out of plan, so to speak, you are talking about involvement, that is to say, the council itself, by means of a motion, has to ask for information or call the alderman to account. He therefore has no right of co-determination, but only a form of involvement that ultimately amounts to calling politics to account. And you don't do that every month, so that's where the position gets weaker. The second is: when it comes to agreement with a decision of the province, mostly, which needs a room for use, via an installation plan, the college of B and W independently assesses whether or not this can be done in terms of operating space, smell, noise, traffic. Once again, the Council is excluded from codecision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u13	Well, look, I don't want to contradict Mr Verheijen too much, but I would like to point out that I have just said that the council comes into view when it comes to outside the zoning plan or the structural vision. If it is zoning or structural vision, then the council has just been in the picture. I attach great importance to the local government and to the position of the city council. I believe that it is well secured, in a way that enables us all to act quickly where possible, but again, not if it would be at the expense of democratic legitimacy, because that is the last thing I would like. I think that the establishment as proposed here, keeps the city council sufficiently in position and thus does justice to its importance. In the end, if there is a deviation, the council always has a right of consent. If that does not happen, for example because there is already a zoning plan, the board always has instruments, if he thinks he should intervene. I think that's a nice way to organize and arrange this. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more specific questions on this part. Mrs Gout asked whether the phasing that we are now making possible could not lead to delays. I have already said in the debate with Mr Verheijen: if the city council were to find a piece of legislation, this would involve a deviation from the zoning plan. That is only for the stage at which the authorisation for that derogation is part of, not for the whole. This can also lead to acceleration. For parts of the project which have already been sufficiently developed, the project implementation decision can already be taken. Those parts can already be carried out, for example building up land or preparing work on that land, so I don't have that concern. Mr Verheijen and Mrs Teunissen had another question on this point, concerning the EIA in relation to the project implementation decision. It is always based on a planMER or an EIA assessment. The competent authority must assess whether a decision requires an EIA. So that's the EIA assessment. That is no different from other decisions. If the project implementation decision fits into the existing zoning plan, any adverse environmental impacts have already been taken into account in the planMER. If it doesn't fit into the zoning plan, then we need to get an environmental permit to deviate from the zoning plan. In other words, this proposal does not change that and does not make it possible to reach an EIA in one way or another. I can imagine that was the concern of Mr Verheijen. Then there's the ministerial arrangement. We have already discussed the involvement of the Council in more detail, but many questions were also about the ministerial arrangement versus the AMvB. This legislative proposal provides for the possibility of adding new areas and projects to ministerial arrangements rather than to AMvB. That's a pretty big time savings, seven months or so. Of course, all deviations from legislation and regulations must be carefully weighed and organised, so new experiments are always added to the Crisis and Recovery Act by general administrative action, and thus, of course, by means of the back-up procedure. But adding new areas and projects to experiments that have already been approved is done according to this proposal by ministerial regulation. Then it will be checked whether a project or area to be designated fits within the framework and objective of the experiment from the AMvB. If you look back at the history of this law, neither the Chamber nor the Council of State have so far proposed not to add a particular area to an experiment. Based on that experience and what we have seen in the eighteenth tranche of the Crisis and Recovery Act, only areas and projects have been added to existing experiments. This tranche also received a blank opinion from the Council of State. I therefore believe that a ministerial arrangement is a considerable time-saving measure, but once again, the express agreement is that new areas and projects are involved, and that this is an improvement. Then there were members who fell over the word "mostly" in the city council's decision on the execution of experiments. I would like to explain that, because I think I can take away a matter of concern. The implementation of many experiments simply requires a decision by the city council, for example a zoning plan with a wider scope. Then the city council has the freedom to adapt or not to adapt the instruments of that experiment and the involvement is secured. For some experiments they work directly, i.e. no decision is necessary for the operation of the experiment after the entry into force of the AMvB. An example of this is the experiment with a stricter EPC for new buildings. Following the entry into force of the AMvB, this stricter standard applies immediately to newly built dwellings in the area included in that general measure of governance, so that word is often "mostly" to that effect. With this explanation I hope to have removed the concerns that some Members had.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u14	The Minister hasn't quite taken away my concern after all. I understand that when there are areas or projects added to an experiment situations where the city council is explicitly involved, and that is fine. The example she mentions, and there may be others, does it mean that the addition of such an energy performance standard should also apply to a particular area? Then there is someone who has thought that it is about this area, about this new neighborhood to be built or about a particular housing project. In such cases too, I would think that the representative of the people involved, which will often be the city council, should be able to consider whether it also thinks that this new location should be added to that experiment. My question, which I believe was put by more groups, was whether you should not make the general rule that when the Minister's examination of admission to an experiment was carried out, the parliament, the municipal council or the assembly of states in the area in question was always able to agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u15	I have just argued that this will also be the case in by far the majority of situations, and that it is only in certain exceptional cases, namely generality, for example, of that stricter EPC, that it is not necessarily the case. Besides, it's not illegal or anything. Of course, it can be done if you choose to do so yourself. I think that Mr Flierman and some others fear that the elected representative is not sufficiently involved. The question is whether you should take care of this in advance or whether you can trust that a good balance will be made locally. I have less of that concern, because I think it's not that bad in practice. Nor do I think that, for example, there is a great deal of political discussion about the fact that the city council does not necessarily have a role in this. If that concern is widespread in this Chamber, I would imagine that we would make it clear that we do, of course, want the involvement of the representative bodies to be secured by the city council and the provincial states. Actually, I'm assuming so. Of course, it does not need to be incorporated into the law, but I could imagine that we would adopt this in a policy rule. This is a hand-out which I would like to take in the direction of Mr Flierman and the other Members who have drawn attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u16	I would like to thank the Minister for that. In fact, I was concerned that, if I understood the system correctly, you, as Minister, should always check whether a particular area or project is being added to an experiment. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to put it to me in the form of a policy rule, which always raises the question of whether the city council concerned or the State meeting concerned has agreed to it. If the Minister promises us that, then my concern on that point has been taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u17	I will be happy to give that to Mr Flierman. I say it to Mr Flierman now, but it is also intended for the other Members who have expressed similar concerns. I thought Mr Verheijen was one of them, by the way. Mrs Meijer and others have also expressed similar concerns. In other words, I will do this in a policy line. In this policy rule, I will state that projects will only be eligible for designation if the involvement of the representative bodies is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u18	That would be very nice. I had to ask whether this obligation to notify would be included, so that residents and stakeholders could also take note of the intention which the Council is discussing and the Minister will take the test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u19	Can I come back to that point when I talk about the involvement of residents and others? If Mr Verheijen is okay with that, I shall come back to that later. With this, I conclude the ministerial settlement and involvement section of the council. Once again, Mr Verheij's question is still open. I don't know if I'm using my own order at all, but I thought it would be good to answer some questions here about evaluation and monitoring. Mr Flierman, Mr Binnema and Mrs Teunissen asked a question about this. May I begin with the comment that was made about working with a control group? I understand the question. I believe that it has also been the subject of exchange of views in the written questions and answers. I would like to stress here that the underlying idea in this question is whether we are looking closely at whether the experiments provide the right solutions to existing legislative and regulatory bottlenecks. That is a very important question. So I think evaluation is a natural part of experimenting. Therefore, an annual progress report is prepared. It will also be sent to both chambers; I have promised it before. In the progress report we will look at how the projects in practice apply these experimental possibilities, what their effects are and so on. Every time we want to be as concrete as possible. There is a specific problem, a specific situation. We're looking for a solution. This creates new and better solutions. There is also a form of innovation attached to it. And there are really many examples where we are going to see that in practice. It's kind of hard to work with a control group. Then there must be some degree of comparability, and that is, of course, very difficult. That is why I did not go so far as to say to Mr Flierman and indeed to Mr Binnema that we are working with a control group. We'll work with an evaluation. Through that progress report we keep a close eye on it. We learn from it, so we learn from the experiments. Only perhaps we are not doing that just in the way Mr Flierman suggested it. Mrs Teunissen asked that this also had to do with the evaluation and effects of any studies aimed at the environment and the living environment. She asked whether we had these investigations carried out and whether she might have been able to take note of them. It is, of course, difficult to have research carried out or to carry out experiments that still have to be started at that time. I just said we need to see how things go. That also leads to lessons from the experiments. As far as research is concerned, I would like to say to Mrs Teunissen that it should actually be done where the experiment takes place, i.e. at the level of the municipalities, at the level of the provinces. That is where all the information is gathered. They are also very much responsible in this country for protecting the environment. That's, I think, very good. They are to a large extent implementing the projects. So the evaluating research must also take place to a large extent there. There has not been such an analysis on the front, which Mrs Teunissen asked for, but we are going to measure very well with each other during the ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u20	The Minister refers to the experiments currently taking place and initiated by different municipalities. In my contribution, I pointed out that so far the environmental impact of the Crisis and Recovery Act has not been evaluated. In 2014, there was an evaluation of that law, but it reflects purely and exclusively the legal consequences of that law. At the time, that evaluation was carried out by the WODC. I think it is good news that it will be monitored, but I still have the following question to the Minister. At the time, there was no assessment of the environmental impact, while the twelve laws that have been repealed by the Crisis and Recovery Act are almost all about the environment. I call the Nature Protection Act and the Environmental Management Act. As far as my group is concerned, it should have been checked on the effects by 2014. The Minister says that it is now up to the local authorities to test, but I think it is time to see an overall impact analysis, because this concerns our physical environment overall; it is about the whole of the Netherlands. We must also report to Europe, for example on our emissions. This also requires some idea of the effect of this Crisis and Recovery Act and its amendments. Is the Minister prepared to start monitoring as soon as possible? If so, when? For example, in a year's time, we can see what the effects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u21	First of all, I would like to take away one suggestion. It is not the case that, with the use of the Crisis and Recovery Act, we are putting aside all kinds of environmental legislation and saying that we no longer consider that important. On the contrary. I have just said to Mr Verheij that the EIA and the requirements that arise from it simply remain fully valid and in the picture. So it's often in the temporality of things. It is not at all the case that we say with this law: we do not think the environment and the environment are so important at the moment. That is my first point. My second comment is that we are going to learn from this and we are going to monitor it. That's what I just said. My third comment is that the living environment in the Netherlands is very much to be monitored, of course, also at national level. The Planning Office for the Environment regularly examines the quality of our living environment. I think they publish the Balance of the Environment every two years. I believe that a Balance of the Environment was also released in 2018. In this report, the PBL noted that the living environment in the Netherlands is improving on a number of fronts. Air and water have become cleaner. The energy efficiency of new construction, for example, has increased. We have been given a safer and better road network. So there are positive developments. Nevertheless, there are still major challenges in the area of the environment; we all know that. From my portfolio of spatial planning I am also working on the National Environment Vision. We shall also note these points in that regard. That is a coat rack to monitor it further and better, but I would like to take away the suggestion that no importance has been attached to it so far. That is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u22	It is not a question of not taking into account the importance of the environment. The question is how hard this nature interest is taken into account. If you look at the Crisis and Recovery Act in relation to the previous national legislation, there has indeed been a significant shift from a protection regime in which certain developments were made possible, to a Crisis and Recovery Act that says: we place that protection regime in an exceptional position and we make a balance between exploitation and protection in each situation. It is therefore going from always unconditional protection to a balance between exploiting and protecting. That's a significant shift. The Minister also mentions a number of aspects of the living environment with which things are going well, but there are also many aspects with which things are not going well. See the ecological quality of the environment, because it has only deteriorated in recent years. Then it is very interesting to see whether there is a relationship between the new legislation that we are discussing and the negative situation that we are now discussing, for example, with regard to the quality of soil, water and biodiversity. If the Minister looks at it in this way, she might also find it useful to look at a more global national impact analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u23	I would like to emphasise what I said in my first reaction. It is not the case that we are abandoning environmental standards with the application of the Crisis and Recovery Act. In fact, the application of the Crisis and Recovery Act has also led to stricter standards being imposed. I have just mentioned the EPCs as an example. It can also be about air quality, for example, if it is considered to be important locally. There are examples of this, as in Nederweert. That is precisely where they have been stricter, thanks to the application of the Crisis and Recovery Act. I do not recognize the image Mrs Teunissen sketches. I have already listed a number of positive developments, but of course we still have a number of problems in this area in the Netherlands, for many reasons, and we should not ignore them. But I look at the Crisis and Recovery Act and its application, then they are very focused. That is why I said in my first answer that it makes sense to keep a close eye on this area. That is why I attach great importance to the role of municipalities and provinces. So I think the picture is a little more nuanced than Mrs Teunissen is sketching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u24	Very briefly, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u25	What instruments do municipalities and provinces have to carry out these tests? I do not see that these are proposed in this legislative amendment. Nor do I see that it is an obligation for municipalities to actually assess the environmental impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u26	They can determine this to a large extent, but once again, there will be no deviation in the way Mrs Teunissen describes. There must be no deviation from the legislation. It is, however, a phaser. The current legislation is currently in force. Whether local or provincial governments monitor that and how they do it, I leave that to them. That seems to me to be the right way to do things in our country. Then I come to the involvement of citizens. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Mr Verheijen asked what is the right time for people to be informed. He said something about that at the interrupting microphone just now. In general, we increasingly see in the Netherlands that governments, as well as others, consider civic participation to be important and recognise that early engagement is actually always better. If you take people early into what's going to come, then you can take their perspective on things as well. Then you can consider the interests of citizens in a good way. Then you know much better what the thorns are exactly than when you're going to think of them at City Hall or anywhere else. It therefore benefits decision-making. That in a general sense. New experiments are arranged in an AMvB. It's open for consultation. This means that everyone can express an opinion. The legislative proposal will allow new areas and projects to be added to ministerial arrangements. I have just indicated this in the first part of the reply, but most of the time there is a need for a decision from the city council, i.e. from the local government. I come back to what I said: more and more provinces and municipalities are trying to involve people in the front. They try to make such plans in consultation with people and to implement them later. I wasn't in a new neighborhood in Soesterberg that long ago. There was a great deal of involvement of the people who live there, and indeed of the companies. They were partly located there and had to move to another place. Other companies had to make a lot of adjustments because of the new neighborhood. This is a good example of civic involvement and so there are more examples. In fact, we can see that this is moving along with the trend in local and provincial government that is already there. The question then is: what is the right time? It's hard to determine exactly here. I think it should be the responsibility of the lectures, aldermen and delegates, to assess that and to see how they can organise support. That can be done by offering a lot of space for that at the front. In practice, it often turns out to be very good, given the examples we all know. Customization, I'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u27	Mr Verheijen, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u28	I was just waiting for an answer to the notification requirement, so that citizens are not caught by decision-making that is being discussed in the city council, as the minister has promised, while in the neighborhood there is still unknown where it is playing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u29	I heard Mr Verheij say that he could imagine a notification obligation. It is not an obligation now, but the question is whether it is necessary to make this mandatory if the practice is that those responsible themselves see that it improves their support. On balance, this also makes the implementation of the project, also in terms of planning, much more likely, because then you will not be delayed during the project because you didn't arrange it properly at the front. I'm not personally in favour of that duty. It is not part of the proposal either. I'm in favour of involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u30	This minister is also responsible for the local democracy agenda. This fits in with the broad story about participation. It often appears that a number of municipalities are doing well, where the competent authorities are able to involve citizens at the right time, but many other municipalities are not able to do so and they do not. However, in innovative forms of civic participation and in forms of participation customization under the Environmental Act, the same municipalities regularly pass by. This should then illustrate that it is going well in all the municipalities. I'd rather put it the other way around. So let us build in a guarantee, such as the notification obligation that Mr Verheijen mentioned, whereby we ensure that this involvement takes place in any case and that it makes grateful use of best practices in a number of municipalities that may be ahead of us, rather than considering those few municipalities where it goes well as a measure for the whole country. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u31	It's about the Crisis and Recovery Act, so it's about specific projects. I'll try again. We are trying to speed up this legislation. So time is a factor in this. When we make a publication obligation part of the whole, it takes time, because it is an extra step in the process. But as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't belong in that trial. Because if you're doing it right, it's all locked up in front. Bringing citizens into position is a driver's responsibility. It is a responsibility of the Council and also of the States to ensure that this is done properly. If you have done that well, there is no need to impose an obligation, because those citizens are already involved in the process before that. I'd rather see that than add another procedural step. That step takes extra time, I estimate for at least six weeks, when it actually happened before when the drivers have done well. It is therefore an unnecessary period of six weeks in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u32	The experience with participation is always that you lose more time in the end if you don't organize it properly at the beginning. I think we can agree on that. The Minister mentions six weeks. Whether it should be six weeks, I don't know, but everything you invest in the front is better. Two. The fact that we are discussing this issue together is because the Minister is proposing that the ministerial arrangement should not be put before Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u34	The responsibility lies not so much with the alderman, but in this case with the Empire itself. What we are asking for is simply to make the areas added by means of a ministerial arrangement known so that they can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u35	Yes, but we had just gotten a little closer, I thought, when it came to the role of the municipal councils. I therefore believe that, insofar as it was not sufficiently secured by the commitments I made on that point, we have ensured that these municipal councils are well involved. And through these municipal councils, citizens are informed at the right time, but also really involved in the design. In doing so, they have been able to play their full role on the way to decision-making. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions on this point, although we have already had many. Perhaps we have taken a bit of a side-step by Mr Verheijen. He asked about my reflection on the WRR's criticism of the flaws in government communication. This is of course also about this, but in a more general sense. Without mentioning the WRR, I've already argued what I think. I think we should take the criticism into account. The new M.O. needs to wear off. It has to be the new normal. It should be the normal approach, the second nature of directors in the Netherlands. I think that we are moving towards the Environment Act, which, by the way, includes participation clauses, and thanks to the experiments we can carry out under this law, we are increasingly paying attention to participation. I understand the criticism, but when it comes to the involvement of citizens, I see a transition, to use that word once, to a really different way of working. Then I think I have said the necessary things about the involvement of citizens and answered the questions raised. I would now like to comment on the criteria for designating experiments. A number of Members have asked questions about this, starting with Mr Binnema van GroenLinks. He said that by identifying new projects and areas under ministerial regulation, the test on the criterion of sustainable development will be dropped. The starting point of all experiments and additions is that they must contribute to sustainable development. You are having another debate in this Chamber today, namely on the Climate Law. Climate change and everything around it, of course, requires action. In the general measure of governance, experiments are assessed against the criteria, including sustainable development. Frameworks are laid down for the inclusion of projects and areas. Mr Binnema is right in saying that additions to existing experiments in ministerial arrangements are not being re-examined against the criteria, but that is not the case that this review is not taking place indirectly. The addition must fit within the framework of the experiment, as included in the AMvB. In other words, all the additions to areas and projects, including the new arrangements for ministerial arrangements, are in line with sustainable development, which has already been tested in the experiment. Mrs Teunissen asked how I looked at the definition of sustainable development in the Crisis and Recovery Act. She herself pointed out that we have joined the Brundtland definition. Just to be sure, sustainable development is in line with the needs of the present, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u36	I was confused for a moment by a remark from the Minister. I thought I'd check to see if I understood correctly. On the addition of projects or areas to experiments, the Minister said that sustainability would no longer be assessed. But I understand that when such a project is added, it is always tested whether it fits within the experiment? So this is also a test of whether, for example, sustainability is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u37	Mr Flierman says it even better than I said it. That's it, that's exactly it. Thank you for that. Let me go back to the Brundtland definition and Mrs Teunissen's comment on this. It is a balance between ecological, economic and social interests. As far as I am concerned, this includes the importance of nature and climate, as Mrs Teunissen points out. The word "balance" already says it: it means that it should not be one side or another, but that it should be in balance. The Rooms are also able to see if that balance works out well in their eyes. Mrs Meijer of the SP asked about the Paris Climate Treaty. I'm glad she's paying attention to that. It also has the full attention of the cabinet. I am referring again to the other debate you are having today. You also know that we are busy working on the draft climate agreement. At this point we have had to ask for a little patience from both Chambers, but we are working very hard on it. Mrs Teunissen asked how I could prevent a project from being facilitated that goes against the agreements we have made internationally. I believe that Mrs Teunissen in the Lower House has asked whether the climate agreement should not be a criterion. This is a bit along the lines of that question. At that time, I argued in the House of Representatives that I believe that the concept of sustainable development, which is now at the heart of the matter, is a very good step. As far as I am concerned, this is happening entirely in the spirit of international agreements that have been made on the climate, but also in a very concrete way, because it contributes to the sustainable development of housing, for example, which I have yet to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u38	Very briefly, Mrs Teunissen, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u39	Very briefly on the aspect of the climate agreement. The Climate Act we are discussing today is based on an objective of 95% CO reduction by 2050. However, the Crisis and Recovery Act amendment makes much more housing possible. If it's built properly, it'll stay there for a while. So housing is now under construction, and soon it will be 2050: are these homes that we are now going to build so future-proof that they meet the objectives on which we are now heading? Is it enough to include such a broad concept as sustainable development? Shouldn't you set a harder target that is quite in line with what we're about to set? Aren't we going to find out something now? That's my short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u40	The latter is human destiny, I think. Things change and evolve. That is why we need to do it in a smart way, so that we are flexible enough. But just so you know, about the housing market. There is now a great need for more homes. We can't realize it overnight, but we can do things to speed up construction. At the same time, we do want to make it more sustainable and we have a target for 2030 and also for 2050, a little further away. Of course, you would like to have policies now that will allow this to be taken into account as much as possible in what you are building now. Of course, we're not building for a few years, we're building for decades. If we made the standards and standards so high, it would be so costly that nothing would be built. It can't be, because there's a huge shortage of homes. So that's where we find the right balance. It is about building up the right incentives and setting the right standards, so that they can be built as sustainably as possible, in such a way that they can be delivered. If we were to wait a while: the technique stands for nothing, so in ten years' time everything can undoubtedly be even better than it can be now. We can't wait for that; we have to build it. As far as I am concerned, we must do so as sustainably as possible. That is what this legislation is looking at. Mrs Teunissen had a few very specific questions. I would also like to say straight away that I have consulted other departments in order to answer these questions. But they're set, so I'll take them for granted. She asked if the government could share with the Chamber a secret report by the State on the fraud involving manure fermentation and biomass. I would like to start by saying on behalf of the cabinet that it is always very undesirable for subsidies to be misused. My colleague, the Minister of EZK, informed the House of Representatives on 15 May of a large number of measures taken to mitigate the risks, following a process and risk analysis of the SDE+. This analysis is open to the public and consultations are still taking place between the ministries concerned in order to make the relevant report and the response to it public. Another question from Mrs Teunissen was about the construction of biomass plants and manure digesters. It referred to the project category list in Annex 1. The construction of biomass plants and manure digesters was included in Annex 1 of the Crisis and Recovery Act as a product for renewable energy in 2013. The assessment of whether biomass and manure fermentation can be regarded as sustainable development depends on specific circumstances on a case-by-case basis. For the assessment, I refer to the Activity Decision environmental management and the requirements in the SDE+ grant scheme for renewable energy projects. Then I would like to answer the questions that relate to the relationship between the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Environment Act. Mr Flierman, in particular, but also Mrs Meijer, has asked questions about this. Let me begin with Mrs Meijer's question. Mrs. Meijer looked into our joint glass ball. We all know that's very difficult. Her question was: what happens if the First Chamber doesn't agree to the Environment Act? Let me begin by saying that I hope that this is not a preliminary announcement by Mrs Meijer or an understanding that we all do not yet have. In all seriousness: it is a long, complex, but especially careful process. I assume that I will also have a good discussion in this Chamber on the introduction law and on other legislative products necessary for this major reform of the system. In other words, I hope, of course, that it is a theoretical situation that Mrs Meijer is sketching and is going to do a great deal of work on it. It is always wise to consider all situations and consequences, but it does not seem logical to me to anticipate them from my position. I will continue with the careful handling of the legislative amendment and the reform of the system. Step by step, even in this room, we're going to go through this. It's meant to be a transition. It is intended as a temporary situation on the way to this new Environment Act, but there is indeed still a lot to be done, including in this Chamber. As I was saying, as long as the Environment Act isn't there, there's the Crisis and Recovery Act that can do its job. Mr Flierman asked how the lessons from the Crisis and Recovery Act are translated into the system of the Environment Act. I have just said that it is of course very important to involve the experience gained in the implementation of the environmental law. In the Crisis and Recovery Act, you can try out certain things. In the Environmental Act, what we call that consideration space is offered, for example in the area of noise. An experimental clause is also included in the Environment Act. It's also based on what we learn in the Crisis and Recovery Act. It is of course also very important in the implementation, and therefore also for the municipalities, which are actually preparing themselves in their own organisation and working methods for the new way of working in the Environment Act. We have also made agreements on this and developed tools or tools for sharing this learning experience of municipalities with each other. The municipalities all need the time, but it can of course be very helpful if you learn from experiences from other municipalities. Mr Flierman also said that a number of planning figures and legal figures from the Environment Act are already possible under the Crisis and Recovery Act. He asked if I could vouch for that. I can. It is part of that way of moving forward and practicing with the possibilities that the Environment Act will soon offer. I mentioned earlier today the zoning plan with its extended scope. With the zoning-plus for a development area, the municipalities can already use the decentralised balancing area. I just mentioned sound. This will be reflected in the Environment Act and will become available to all municipalities and will become applicable. The environmental plan will also come back, of course. Then some more questions and answers about housing. An important reason for this legislative amendment is, of course, the desire to contribute to the acceleration of the construction process. A number of Members dealt with some of the more pressing areas yesterday: social housing, for example. Mr Flierman himself said in his speech that it might have been a little bit on the edge of the subject, but it is an important subject. In fact, he said: if we do this, is it not important to look at other areas as well if there is any oppressive regulation that we might be able to delete? We could do more in social housing, for example, to improve the quality of life in small cores, and that sort of thing. I understand the suggestion very well and I am also pleased that part of it came from the coalition agreement, which we have already made a number of suggestions on that point. For example, there is a legislative amendment in this Chamber which deals with the simplification of the market test. That's a law amendment that allows corporations to build more middle-rent homes. I think that's very good. This benefits the small cores and promotes mixed neighbourhoods. I think that is an example of what Mr Flierman referred to. I also announced that I would give more room for a local interpretation in the Housing Act, for example with regard to the quality of life. I sent a letter to the Chamber on 22 February. We are doing so by deleting certain detailed rules and by aligning the law more closely with the principles for which it is actually intended. In other words, I think Mr Flierman's comment is actually an incentive to continue on this track. By the way, not everything here is "invented in The Hague," I shall say, but also in consultation with the sector and with local authorities. On that last point, I expect the House Act bill to be consulted before the summer. Mr Aardema of the PVV said: the emphasis on energy transition and sustainability has a price driving effect. I might have just been able to discuss that when I answered that other question, from the Party of Animals, because it is actually a bit the reverse of the question asked by the Party of Animals. I told you, the houses we're building, we need to build because there's a lot of demand for them and because there's a shortage right now. I think it's important that these homes are future-proof. Indeed, we want a sustainable country and a healthy country. But they must also be affordable. So that's kind of the tension I've just addressed. I would like to add, also to answer Mr Earthema's question, that energy costs are reduced by making homes more sustainable. So that is not just a cost item, but also a way to lower the monthly energy bill. An unsustainable home requires more energy. Better housing, sustainable housing, energy-efficient housing are therefore also, by definition, cheaper housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u41	I was afraid for a moment that the Minister would skip my question on price-raising measures. Is my conclusion correct that the energy transition with the amendment of this law will become a key criterion? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u42	I have just argued that sustainability is an important part of the balance. I also said that this must be balanced. So the answer is actually no. It is about sustainable development, but also about how we are going to build faster and make investments possible than would be the case without this legislative amendment. It not only saves time, but also provides financial profits and, most importantly, faster housing for the people who are waiting for it. Mrs Meijer also asked about the housing market and said that the crisis in the housing market was largely caused by government measures such as the landlord's levy. This is one of my favorite topics of discussion. In the Dutch housing and housing market we are dealing with the impact of the economic and, not to mention, the financial crisis, which it has once started. House prices have fallen, too, but not only in the Netherlands. Many measures have been taken in the crisis to counter this. They dealt with the financial stability of the Netherlands, but also with the restoration of public finances. Many of these measures came into force around 2013. In the meantime we are happily scribbled out of the valley with each other. There is economic recovery and there is also a recovery in construction production. It actually had a kind of double chew, because it fell completely silent. That Mrs Meijer says that the landlord levy has had a very negative effect and is still having a negative effect, I want to fight it. Firstly, it is not the landlord tax that caused the crisis in the housing market, no, there has been a financial crisis and an economic recession. They actually shut down the housing. As a result, the prices of the homes in the Netherlands have fallen dramatically. Then, in order to get public finances in order, everything happened. For example, the landlord's tax has been introduced, which is still in force. We have, of course, taken a good look at this, because this landlord's tax has led to a certain behavioural effect on housing corporations. For example, they have reduced investment beyond what was actually necessary on the basis of their financial position. If you look at the macro level and therefore look at the investment capacity of all housing corporations in the Netherlands, you can see that that is actually in order, but not evenly distributed. That's the problem. So there are housing corporations that have too little investment space. Often they are in areas where you would like to see them invest more. There are also housing corporations that have more than enough investment space, but are not entirely in the right area. That is why we are examining, in consultation with the corporations, the possibility of a way of settlement. There are very large differences between regions in the Netherlands, between cities and regions and between housing corporations. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say something which is indeed a bit off topic, following a question that Mrs Meijer asked. The cabinet has, of course, on two occasions provided financial space for housing companies so that they could invest sufficiently. For example, we have an overall target reduction of 100 million and a tax reduction of another 100 million for investments in sustainability. As a result, these housing corporations can simply participate in the important building assignment that exists. Mrs Baay-Timmerman of 50PLUS asked about customised homes. The realisation of customised housing as such does not appear in the bill, because municipalities are ultimately responsible, including for the type of housing that can be built. Municipalities can give a place to this in their plans, which are part of this. I see that more and more municipalities also take care of customised housing and take account of where the facilities are. It is often important for senior homes to be in the right place. Municipalities therefore pay more and more attention to this. I think that is important and I am trying to promote it. Even if it is not a direct part of this, it can contribute to it. I thought it was also Mrs Baay-Timmerman who asked for urban construction and whether there is enough room for the great need that now exists. I repeat in response to her question that, of course, it is necessary to determine at local level what the question is and which locations fit in with it. We do see that there is a lot of demand for urban living. Since people like to live indoors, it is a good thing that municipalities try to build indoors. For some time now we have the so-called Ladder for sustainable urbanisation. It provides a good framework for this, but at some point it may indeed get agitated. Then inner city building does not offer enough solace, but also there is the customization and it really depends on the place in the Netherlands. I said earlier that of course you should also look at accommodating the edges of municipalities. This happens and do municipalities and provinces together. Mr Binnema of GroenLinks asked whether we are sure that the adaptation of the Crisis and Recovery Act will lead to an acceleration in housing. I have just put that up as a motive to propose these changes. Part of it goes: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. So we will see if the experiments are going to contribute to that. As I said, we monitor that well. Given the projects, I think we have reason to be optimistic so far. There are projects that have really benefited from the opportunities offered by the Crisis and Recovery Act. In irrevocable zoning plans about 30,000 homes have already been made possible. Sometimes these are only plans now. The real homes still have to be realized and the shovel still has to be put in the ground but they are still a lot of numbers. In addition, municipalities are preparing zoning plans for about 120,000 homes. We know that there are municipalities running into certain bottlenecks in practice. We have to look at that and figure out how to take it away. Mr Binnema and others said yesterday that it is not just because of the procedures. I totally agree with them, because there's more to it than that. There are more factors involved in housing, such as capacity shortages in the construction sector itself, but also in municipalities, on the licensing side. They can be very different, but part of them can be solved by speeding up procedures, for example, that can be achieved by the Crisis and Recovery Act. It is not the solution or the only solution, but it is an opportunity. I would not miss that opportunity at all. However, together and in the construction sector, we must do everything in our power to solve, for example, those capacity bottlenecks, for example, by working much more innovatively. In my opinion, innovation is an enormous acceleration. An expert team should also be able to be made available to municipalities and provinces if they themselves lack capacity. I took care of that kind of help from BZK. I'm just saying, there's more to it than that. Mr. Chairman. A single question that could not be brought home under one of the earlier headings. Mrs Teunissen asked why a consultation round was not chosen. I have just argued that this is actually a transition towards the Environment Act. It will enter into force in 2021, I hope and expect. That is far away on one side and very close on the other. Municipalities want to experiment all this and next year with these instruments from the Environment Act. So there is also a certain urgency about this bill to ensure that they are given that space. So there has indeed been no extensive consultation, but I have of course consulted several times with important agencies, VNG, IPO, Union of Water Boards, Foundation Nature & Environment, VNO-NCW, Bouwend Nederland, NEPROM and the NVB Association for Developers & Building Entrepreneurs. Those parties are therefore well taken into account and are well placed to involve their supporters. In this sense, attention has been paid to it, without any formal consultation being carried out. Mrs Gout asked whether municipalities had sufficient knowledge to actually apply this to projects for more housing in relation to sustainability and energy transition. My experience is that municipalities actually have a lot of knowledge, but insofar as they do not have that knowledge or there is a capacity problem, my ministry is always available to support the municipalities participating in those experiments. We're organizing knowledge meetings. I have just said that we are also trying to facilitate municipalities in exchanging the experiences they have gained. BZK is also heavily involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u43	I think that the Minister is a little optimistic about the knowledge and skill with regard to all these complex regulations at local level. It is good that you say 'we are organizing things', but I also asked if information could be started. I did not use the word 'campaign', but I did ask if the Ministry would draw up an information plan so that there would not be a two-way country, with on the one hand the municipalities that are already participating and have taken note of the new regulations in the experiments, and on the other hand municipalities that are not participating and, in fact, when the Environment Act comes into force, have no idea how they can join.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u44	I never mind being blamed for optimism. However, I agree with Mrs Gout that there is a need for this. It's complicated, all right. It is complex in all kinds of ways, even legally it can be very complex. We must do something about that. So we have said that we are going to organise meetings, knowledge meetings, and we are also going to digitally unlock it. That is the easiest way to ensure that we can reach all the governments that want to work with this. Whether you want to call that an information campaign or not, we are trying to build that knowledge in all kinds of ways, by sharing meetings, by a website and by very targeted knowledge gained in specific projects and experiments, and by enabling municipalities to work with it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u45	Thank you for that answer. Because you mention all the levels: we have not yet discussed it at all, but I would like to ask the Minister's attention to the security regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u46	I didn't mention that one. I have actually called the provinces, the municipalities and the waterboards quite classically, but there are, of course, other partnerships, such as the security regions. There are also other regional cooperations that can play a role in this. I am also thinking in the sphere of economic structural strengthening and regional cooperation which is involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u47	I've been waiting for the Minister to come back to the freedom of the search for locations. I also ask whether there is sufficient hard planning capacity and comes within the framework of the solution to the housing shortage. In this context, for example, I referred to the government's written correspondence, which states in its reply that it wants to develop this form of freedom and also the independence of municipalities to designate themselves locations that have not previously been investigated in an above-mentioned plan. In our group's view, there is quite a risk there, because if you have not previously assessed this in an assessment, then all the weight, all the burden, will lie with the development of such a plan at location level. This while it has not been previously assessed whether that is a good location, whether there would be a better location and what phasering that location will then come to. In this context, I also referred to the decision of the Council of State in April this year on the Hembrugrein Zaanstad, where some 1,000 homes would be subject to a higher noise load, namely 60dBa. That's not little; that's the difference between the sound of 1,000 cars or 10,000 cars. The Council of State has said that the municipality has not carried out sufficient research and that it has concluded too quickly that this could be done, whereas the possibility of setting that higher limit value has actually only been declared applicable to a connected building block. 1,000 homes is not a contiguous building block. That is why that zoning plan has been destroyed, which, of course, slows down the development of the plan. That is why we ask the Minister to develop much more direction and direction in the regions in order to strike the right balance in site development, so all the other environmental boundary conditions have already been examined before the third stage of the planning process comes to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u48	I had heard Mr Verheij's comment in the first place about the Hembrug site and what the Council of State had decided on it. We should actually zoom in on that much more deeply, because it is also a very specific case. This was not so much about the assessment of an environmental impact as such, but about the application of the seaport standard under the Noise Act. Perhaps that is too far-reaching, but I hear from Mr Verheij's question that he has studied this very carefully. If Mr Verheijen is okay with it, I would like to come back in second place to not specifically this matter, but to the issue of planning capacity, otherwise I am not entirely right to the question he is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u49	Agreed. You will return to it in the second term, but you were finished with your answer in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u51	Thank you. Then we'll go straight to the second term of office. Mr. Earthema doesn't have to. Then we shall give the floor to Mrs Gout.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I begin by thanking the Minister for the comprehensive and very broad and deep way of answering our questions. The Minister began by saying that in the end one of the important objectives of these proposals is to speed up work on housing shortages. I fully agree with that. But fortunately she speaks further on in her speech about balancing this acceleration with the ambitions of sustainability. For us, it is very important that this balance is kept in mind: fast and sustainable. I think the Minister has explained very well that speed is mainly in the procedures. So that doesn't mean there's going to be some kind of revolution building all of a sudden. I can say that I am also very pleased with the constant emphasis by the Minister on the involvement of the representative bodies. I just asked a question about the security region. I was already reassured, because the security region is concerned about its involvement in this law. I am very reassured that you say that information is being organised and expert meetings are being held. You have already promised that all this will be offered via digital information. When you answered the questions about the ministerial regulation, you also indicated how important it is to bring everyone to the front. I would also like to emphasise this point. Thank you for that answer. We talked about the involvement of citizens. It's been said, take them in the front. I think that is also the central theme of the Minister's reply. Speed can be achieved if you bring the right people and the right organisations into the process at the right time. Finally, we also asked what lessons we will be able to learn in order to apply the new Environment Act. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to what I have just referred to as 'two-way country'. I think it is very important that we monitor carefully whether certain parts of the Netherlands are perhaps municipalities, or perhaps provinces, far less often participating in this experiment. That's what we're seeing in the experiment list now. This would mean that there would soon be a two-way country, with provinces and municipalities who know very well how to deal with the Environment Act, and on the other hand those who are left behind. So that is actually another appeal to the Minister at the end of my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Gout. I call Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for her reply and for her two promises which I have noted with joy. I shall begin with her commitment that, in the form of a policy rule, she will always ask whether the city council or the provincial state assembly is sufficiently involved and has agreed to do so when reviewing projects or areas added to an already existing experiment. That's what we care about. I assume that's settled. I place a slightly different emphasis from Mr Verheijen by assuming that the city council then makes known through the normal procedures that such a proposal is on the agenda and that that council therefore fulfils its responsibility as a decently elected body by involving and informing the population and the other stakeholders in the municipality in a proper manner. The second commitment I welcome is the Minister's remark that there is a lot of work going on with corporations to look at the space that exists to remove unnecessary or too strict rules. We must, of course, stay away from megalomaniac or too risky projects, and we all agree on that, but in response to these abuses, we may also be a little out of control in the sphere of corporations in making projects that are no longer meaningful and good in themselves. That's a bit typical Dutch, I think. If this balance is restored, for example, by allowing corporations to create rental homes in the middle segment or a single shop in a village, if the viability is served by this, then that seems to me to be very good examples. Then it would be nice if we could continue on that path. So I would very much encourage the Minister to do so. Finally, I fully understand what the Minister says in general terms about the lessons to be learned. There is practice with certain planning figures, and of course municipalities learn from them. A question that also intrigues me is whether there are also situations in which such projects or processes have been identified "hey, here we have a plan figure or working method that doesn't work well after all; maybe we should set it up in a different way in the Environment Act" or "we are still running into a number of things that we should settle in the Environment Act." There is no doubt to me that knowledge is being acquired with which municipalities and provinces can get started, but how to process certain experience and then possibly arrange things differently in the Environment Act is not yet entirely clear to me. Maybe I'll hear about that later. Mr. Chairman. However, all that has been said, I will gladly advise my group and also the Christian Union Group to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Flierman. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for the comprehensive answer. In this second term, I would like to make four short points. Indeed, I did not expect the Minister to say that the Crisis and Recovery Act would be the only way to promote housing, or that there would be no other factor. Of course, this had also been made clear by the written answer and the more fundamental issues currently facing the housing market. They are very often not so much about the length or complexity of procedures, but rather about a whole lot of other things such as the ability to obtain mortgages and the planning capacity. It also reminded me of when I was a member of the State in the province of North Holland myself. Within the framework of the then newly introduced Crisis and Recovery Act, we had put 60 projects on a list in no time, and this Crisis and Recovery Act could perhaps help to speed things up. In almost all 60 projects, there appeared to be other fundamental problems in such a way that the Crisis and Recovery Act had hardly any significance for that 60. This is perhaps also a link to the second point that Mr Flierman asked for in the first term and which I myself asked for. After all, I would like to understand what these experiments are actually doing for the social challenge that lies ahead. That was the reason for asking for such a control group, because you can then see whether in municipalities that are faced with a similar social task and which are not covered by the experiment and which do not use it, something else happens or a different dynamic occurs than in municipalities that have used these experiments. My group's idea would be that you should at least use those experiments to learn what bottlenecks exist in the existing legislation and then resolve them, instead of actually adding more and more laws to the list that can be deviated from, thereby increasing the number of experiments as such. In that sense, a progress report is really something other than an evaluation. Current progress reports mainly show what experiments are being used, how many municipalities do this and what this may have resulted in in terms of time, especially at the Council of State. But they do not show whether the experiment in question has contributed to solving the social problem in terms of content. From that perspective, I can also very well follow Mrs Teunissen's question. After all, you want to know what these experiments actually do in practice for a number of social developments that are desired, but certainly also for a number of social developments that you might find undesirable. We also welcome the commitment on the policy rule which takes into account and takes into account the involvement of the people's representatives. But we would also like to add a step two to that, namely the step to ensure that, in particular, residents of a municipality and the city council are aware of the projects or areas by way of notification. After all, this depends on alert citizens who know the way in the procedures and who are aware that projects are taking place. In this sense, there is actually a parallel with many other forms of civic participation and involvement. We may not always be able to assume that the competent authorities have that in mind. There may also be motives for them to think in fact: citizen involvement leads to delays, additional procedures and more time, so let us not do so if it is not strictly necessary. I think it is good to speed up and to combat the factors that lead to delays, but acceleration is not an end in itself when this speed is at the expense of a proper balance of interests and the desirability of the projects concerned. I wanted to leave it at that in second place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. National legislation and administrative procedures are not just created. All social interests are usually carefully weighed. But with the Crisis and Recovery Act, and certainly with this proposed change, the Minister puts a careful consideration aside. The Minister has not been able to convince us of anything else. This law ensures that local balancing frameworks are stretched and that judicial proceedings are organised in such a way that they become more and more difficult for citizens. And without assessing the effects on the living environment of this system change, in anticipation of the Environmental Law. Mr. Chairman. Since 2012, the Animal Party has been advocating an independent review of the Crisis and Recovery Act, which examines, among other things, the impact on nature and the environment. In our view, this cannot be left to municipalities and provinces, as they are not system responsible, have no specific duty or interest in it. In doing so, it would produce a fragmentary image. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Binnema, Mr Nagel and Mr Meijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the impact on the environment of the implementation of the Crisis and Recovery Act has neither been monitored nor evaluated;]] [[Whereas the legislative proposal Amendment Crisis and Recovery Act allows even more than the current law to derogate from national legislation in relation to the physical environment;]] [[calls on the Government to review the impact of the amended Crisis and Recovery Act on nature and the environment within one year and to share the results with the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35013-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u59	I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u60	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, thank the Minister for the comprehensive reply and certainly for the commitment to the involvement of the Parliamentary Assembly, but I am surprised that the Minister is not very forthcoming about this alleged obligation of notification. Literally, I hear the Minister say: publication takes time. Yeah, I think it's gonna take more time for people down the road to object. There is also the annoyance when the end result is not what you had hoped for. I'm really sorry about that. I hope that the Minister will take a good look at that. Furthermore, I found the answers to the questions about whether you should not make sustainability criteria more specific little convincing. It is too late to keep turning around the hot knit, so I would like the Minister to take this up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u62	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for her reply and for her commitment to the two points that Mr Flierman has just mentioned. I have a few questions to ask her and still some concern about the way in which she responded to the question of the coincidence in the coming years of this change with the entry into force of the Environmental Law itself. The Council of State spoke explicitly in its annual report on 2018 about the system that we are now working on and that they refer to as a construction system. This literally refers to the notification of areas for all kinds of experiments that are not listed and are not known about. Indeed, what the Minister had promised on the issue of the involvement of the city council or states provides for some of it, but not entirely. We will, of course, also have to have that overview at national level and in any case, from the position of the States-General, we will have to assess which areas will then be merged with regard to the number of experiments and locations that will be considered. The answer to the issue of the AMvB's veil for the categories is clear, but it is about the chain cord of locations where all of this is going to play and where other legal bases are going to apply than under the Environmental Act which is about to come into force. I haven't heard from the Minister about the concern of the Council of State. The second point is the position of the municipal councils. The Minister replied that it considered the guarantee of the involvement of municipal councils sufficient in the context of this amendment. I would like to remind you of the letter that the Minister wrote to the Dutch Parliament in October 2018, following the question of the Lower House whether she wanted to respond to a contribution from a number of expert lawyers regarding the transfer of powers between the Executive Board and the General Board, the Boards and States. In that letter of October 2018, the Minister does say that there is a shift. So there must also be a political judgement as to whether we can agree to the shift and whether it is in line with the Environment Act, which is, in principle, the framework for the coming years in order to implement all the physical developments that we consider desirable. Once again, there I find tension between what has been discussed in the amendment of the House of Representatives and what has been adopted with regard to the position that remains in this Crisis and Recovery Act for Municipal Councils. We do not think that this is appropriate. It cannot be motivated with speed, as other colleagues have said. In my experience, every city council, when it comes to building developments and location developments, is quickly prepared to consult with the college of B and W. That's not where he gets the hang of it. A general reflection given by the Minister on the usefulness and necessity of the Crisis and Recovery Act still raises the question, even if we listen to Mrs Teunissen's speech, to what extent the Crisis and Recovery Act has contributed to the improvement of natural and environmental conditions. It may surprise Mrs Teunissen, but green projects have also been developed with the Crisis and Recovery Act. This has actually not been assessed sufficiently in progress reports. The possibilities for this are also rather limited, just because the nature domain is invested in provinces and not in municipalities in terms of formal responsibilities. Now I know that in dealing with the Crisis and Recovery Act in the House of Representatives, we talked about the possibility of adding national territory to the scope of the Crisis and Recovery Act. That was rejected by the government at the time. I would once again like to ask whether you see or see the possibility of including green projects, in the context of the strengthening of biodiversity, under the pilot scheme of this Crisis and Recovery Act, or in the near future the Environment Act. Finally, we do not find the answer to the question of the possibility of taking note of projects presented, even in consultation with the Council, sufficiently satisfactory. We see that there is a need to have that overview, also from the point of view of the States-General, so we would like to table a motion. The President shall: Mr Verheijen, Mr Binnema, Mr Teunissen, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Meijer and Mr Nooren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed amendment does not provide for an obligation to notify projects for the ministerial scheme;]] [[calls on the government to provide for municipal councils or councils to be set up. Provincial States, local residents and other stakeholders can be involved at an early stage in the consultation on the implementation, scale and impact of this project;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35013-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u64	I expect another response to the problem of planning capacity. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u65	Thank you, Mr Verheijen. I just got a message from the minister that she needs 15 minutes. Do you mind if it's 13? I see that she agrees. Then we can continue at 5:00. I like whole hours. That's easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u66	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u67	Thank you, Mr President. It's the second term. There are still a number of questions and comments. I have noted the point made by Mrs Gout. She said that it is really important to include, share and prepare municipalities that may not participate in this law through an experiment, but should soon be able to participate in the new system of the Environment Act. Mrs. Gout literally said there should be no division. I wrote that down right, because I totally agree with her. Then Mr. Flierman. He recalled that I made two commitments in my first term. That's right. I'd like to repeat that. On the policy rule, I made a commitment to make it absolutely clear that projects can only be identified if the involvement of the representative bodies is guaranteed. I have heard others refer to this, so I thought it would be good to repeat that here. The second commitment I made towards Mr Flierman concerned the regulation of housing corporations. I mentioned the market test, but there are indeed other possibilities. The examples mentioned by Mr Flierman also appeal to me very much, because these housing companies have a very important task, whether or not they are right when it comes to livingability, small cores and so on. That is what Mr Flierman and I agree with each other. Mr Flierman also referred to something he had already appointed in the first term, namely the lessons of the Crisis and Recovery Act and the relationship with the Environment Act. He said you should learn from things that don't go well. I thought he specifically asked if there are any examples of things that we say: that did not work well, so we do not. We can't actually identify them as one-two-three. That's good news in itself. It is easier to find examples of things that have worked well and thus have been taken over in the Environmental Act, for example the building permit, whereby municipalities are given wider possibilities to permit the clearance of buildings, or to allow more global allocation in the zoning plan. Those are matters that indeed come back to the Environment Act. Mr Binnema van GroenLinks also paid a lot of attention to these lessons, which of course we always have to draw and learn with each other. Mr Binnema also returned to the control group. Indirectly you do compare, because if something is realized thanks to the possibilities that have been applied, they are by definition not applied elsewhere. Mr Binnema said that sometimes the tasks are the same. That's right, but they're very different. So I'm gonna keep having a hard time thinking that you could work with that control group. Again, I very much agree with the underlying idea that you need to learn from it and make it available to others who work with the same problem. If they want to implement this in a specific way locally, I am very much in favour of it. Then I'll be with Mrs Teunissen. She has raised a number of points, but I think she has made her most important contribution in her motion. Maybe I can also respond immediately to that motion, the motion with the letter "F." It pays close attention to possible impacts on nature and the environment. The motion calls for an evaluation within a year, but it is not really feasible to evaluate within a year. I don't think you'd be able to measure clear effects within a year, even if you do that locally. I believe that these effects will only become apparent later and especially at the municipal or local level, and will depend very much on what exactly they are about and what concrete measures they are about. I am therefore very much in favour of monitoring. I am also very much in favour of doing so as much as possible on the ground, locally. That is why I do not recommend the motion, which is actually asking for something quite different, namely to do it quickly and at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u68	Then I'll try to find a way out. Would it help if I changed the deadline mentioned in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u69	I would appreciate that very much in itself, but I had two objections to the motion. One was about the deadline, but the other was that I really think it's better to do so in my first term, too. I argued in my first term to keep the finger on the pulse projectally on the specific project, and so to invest it much more locally, while for the larger picture we choose a slightly more abstract approach to keep our finger on the pulse through the progress report and inform the two Chambers. So even with that amendment, I should not recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u70	I'm gonna let that settle for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u71	I thought Mrs Meijer then spoke. She also spoke kindly about the importance of involving people and the representative bodies. Of course I like to hear that, especially from the SP. She asked me to go further into sustainability and sustainability criteria. I talked about this in my first term, but I am trying to add something to that. Sustainable development is, of course, directly related to climate and climate objectives. I have just mentioned the climate agreement. It is also assessed under EU legislation. With the Crisis and Recovery Act, we are precisely trying to enable local and regional parties to work for this social task, which we share. But if you're going to make that too specific again, I'm afraid that won't work well enough. That is the reason for choosing that balance. Then I'll be with Mr Verheijen. I owed him another answer on the issue of planning capacity. He related the issue of planning capacity, or the lack of planning capacity, to a specific case, namely that of Zaanstad, where the Council of State destroyed the plans around the Hembrug site. I'll try to give you an answer. If Mr Verheijen says that I did not understand his question correctly, I will be able to hear it on my own. In general, this can of course always happen. Existing legislation may have to do with interpretations of rules for years to come. There are never any guarantees. The opinion of the Council of State on the Hembrug site is related to the Noise Act, which the municipality has interpreted differently from the Council of State. This was again linked to the so-called seaport standard. The project as such was an experiment; it was part of this legislation. The reason it was destroyed wasn't actually because it's not part of the Crisis and Recovery Act. So there's another connection. Now I try to answer Mr Verheij's question in the first place. I believe he related this particular case to a lack of planning capacity at all. If I have understood him correctly, he says: can you no longer steer overprogramming in the planning capacity, because you should always take into account that such situations can occur, that plans do not continue or are spoken on the long track? I agree with him. I also think that provinces in the soft and hard planning capacity should indeed create enough space, because it is simply a fact of life that projects sometimes do not go ahead, for all kinds of different reasons. I have also encouraged provinces to do so. If you look through your eye hairs, that planning capacity seems to be sufficient in a lot of provinces. For example, in Noord-Holland and certainly in the area of Amsterdam there is a lot of planning capacity available. But there are also other places where you could imagine that, by creating some more planning capacity, the chances of actual projects and their realization could increase. If that was Mr Verheijen's question, if I have understood him so well, then my answer is 'yes'. Enough planning capacity is important. It is the responsibility of the provinces to ensure this, in good cooperation with the municipalities that have the best view of their local conditions. But the province can now just a little higher link the different municipalities well together and see the whole better. That's what I'm trying to send back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u72	I would like to thank the Minister for her reflection on this point. The question is indeed as you put it in the last sentences: what can the Empire do for that? That was actually Mrs Gout's question. At this point you can see that open standards can also unwittingly get you into trouble. The framework is the case law provided by the Council of State. If you had placed that zoning plan with extended scope in Zaandam in addition to the case law, then there would never have been 1,000 homes at 60 dBa. The municipality is therefore likely to take the risk and see if the zoning plan would get through this time. This therefore requires a good balance between locations and also overprogramming of locations. How can we help each other in the search for the desired locations without reaching the obstacle of the Council of State case law at this risk stage? One of the experts was very clear at the expert hearing we recently had here to discuss the Environmental Law Introduction Act. He talked about his time at the municipality of Amsterdam. There was then a booklet for each environmental aspect containing the case law of the Council of State. They didn't start planning until that book was applied, because they didn't want to risk it. I understand the need to work with more open standards if you don't know it yet, but when you need hard planning capacity, you have to play more on certainty and assume what can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u73	I find that an interesting consideration. I would like to comment specifically on Zaanstad and the Hembrug site. I do not know whether the conclusion reached by Mr Verheijen is correct. I can't confirm whether the municipality thought that, but they obviously developed that plan with the expectation that it could, that it was feasible. I know that in Scheveningen, 700 homes have been built, using the same standard. There was also the seaport standard. In itself, I think they could have a real expectation that they could. Of course, it is wise to look carefully at the case law when such plans are made, as Mr Verheij also said. I assume that the responsible administrative bodies will do the same. But I think it's tricky. Mr Verheijen warned that if you open this too much, you are much more likely to run this risk. I can imagine. It is also important to consider what has happened, including in this particular case and for any others. On the other hand, if you don't look a little for space and other ways to deal with these kinds of issues, then nothing ever changes. The truth is probably a bit in the middle, but it is a quest. Of course, case law is relevant and should be taken into account by the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions from Mr Verheijen. He came back to the matter of the planner. Anyway, I think he did it from the point of view of the environment. I repeat what I said in the first time, namely that a derogation from the zoning plan will always require an EIA assessment. A zoning plan is always very focused on environmental impacts on the basis of the EIA regulations. I share the importance of that. The environmental impact must also be taken into account when it comes to the choice of location. I think that the concern expressed here by Mr Verheijen is sufficiently taken into account. He was right to point out that green projects could also be covered by the Crisis and Recovery Act. Maybe we should make that even more public, but there are examples of it. Let me give you one example: the province of North Brabant is conducting an experiment with careful livestock farming. That experiment is now in progress. When it comes to greenhouse horticulture and the Willow House in the House of Representatives, there is also a bit more zoomed in on it than the question was whether you should also place it here. The opinion is that the Willow already offers sufficient space and that the existing instruments are sufficient for the necessary restructuring in greenhouse horticulture. Then there is Mr Verheij's point as to whether it is sufficiently clear for citizens to take decisions with different legal bases. That is also quite a complex point. The content of the decision must be guiding, it must be identifiable. The decision sets out the legal framework. It is therefore always for interested citizens to find out which legal rules have been applied. In the transition from current to new legislation, you must pay attention to this. I agree with him. It is not a reason not to introduce new legislation, but it is a reason to deal with it with extra care, because it must remain clear and understandable to people. So I understand the point, but I think it can be dealt with with with sufficient care. Finally, the motion with the letter G of Mr Verheijen and a number of other signatories. I just want to try one thing. The motion actually calls for involvement. As a common thread throughout the debate, I have always described this involvement as very important. Involvement of citizens and businesses, but also of municipal councils and Provincial States, which are also mentioned in the motion. Even at Mr Flierman's request, I made a commitment about the policy rule. I've just repeated it again, so that commitment stands like a house. I have also said that perhaps I can add that to my earlier reply today...... that the ministerial arrangement as such is always published in the Official Journal. That is also a notification of a decision. The only thing I didn't want to do is to have an additional publication obligation at the local level, as an additional procedural step, partly because people need to be involved in the front anyway. With regard to the involvement of the Municipal Councils and Provincial States, I made a commitment to guarantee them even better. In other words, I think that is really good in the proposal, in the law, but above all that it has been put into practice. That is why I thought that the motion as such was no longer necessary and I repeated what I had already said here. If the proposers want to record it in this way, I refer to what I said, but with the suggestion on my part that the commitment may be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u74	I'll taste it. To one element I mentioned in my motivation, the Minister did not reply, namely due care by keeping the overview of the House of Representatives. You have just argued for care in the debate on the legal bases. I do not always see the progress report on the Crisis and Recovery Act getting a lot of attention in the States General. This debate indicates that there is a need for it, at least in this Chamber. That is why it was in favour of making this obligation of notification known to the House of Representatives, so that at least twice a year there is an overview of which areas are now being added to the experimental scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u75	Now Mr Verheijen, because of course he himself confesses colour, also forces me to confess colour. The explanation he is now giving to the motion is that there must be a notification requirement. I have actually stretched everything I have just said, but not as far as the obligation to notify and thus the progress reports. I have no opinion whatsoever of the amount of attention given by the Chambers to progress reports. I'm just gonna keep sending them. I'll make sure the Chambers are informed about that. But I insist that I think a notification obligation really goes too far. I believe that Mr Flierman just said something about that in his term. Then I think I should discourage the motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u76	I wanted to ask a question about it, because we also used the tea break to explain to each other what we meant. What I would like to ask the Minister is: if, under such a ministerial arrangement, the Minister decides to add an area or a project to an already existing experiment, will that decision be published as such? Is that public? It's retrievable from the WOB anyway, I think, but do you publish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u77	Yes, because we publish the ministerial regulations in the Official Journal, so that will be published.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u78	That's not the answer I was looking for. The ministerial rules are published in the Official Journal. Suppose, after a proper debate in a city council, there will be a municipality that you ask: can this location be added to the already existing experiment? You test that and you come to the conclusion that it's okay. Then my question is: do you publish that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u79	Then I'll have to take a look at my officials. The answer is yes, that is indeed in the scheme in that way. Perhaps I should add that the progress report will also include the new projects, of course, as well as the new areas and new projects. If the Chambers were to say that they wanted more frequent information on this matter, they could, of course, do so. I never have a problem sharing more and more information with the Rooms. The answer to Mr Flierman's question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u80	Finally, Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u81	As far as I am concerned, the motion is superfluous, but Mr Verheijen has to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u82	I was gonna declare him redundant, too, but I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u83	Mr Verheijen is going to the microphone one more time. Then it's about done, Mr Verheijen, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u84	I hope so. I would like to have a word with fellow petitioners, if that's all right with you, in a minute or two. It would be nice if the Minister would repeat that she is taking on this obligation to publish, as she has just promised to Mr Flierman. 'Cause I thought that was an obligation to publish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u85	No, I'm sorry, that wasn't the case. Look, I did say that we always publish the ministerial regulations in the Official Journal. Of course, this is preceded by a whole process, which also plays locally. The scheme shall be published. The obligation of notification, such as those who propose this motion, is really something else. I believe that Mr Flierman is not in favour of this either, because it is doing something extra where, in fact, due to all the procedural steps before that, there is sufficient notification. But, of course, I am still waiting for the applicants to be contemplated. Mr. Chairman. I hope that in the second period I have answered the questions that have been asked. I think I can finish with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u86	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Verheijen. You just said you wanted a few minutes, but the vote isn't until next week. So you can talk for another week, if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u87	We will follow your wisdom, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u88	Thank you. Then you have a very busy week ahead of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u89	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the legislative proposal next week, and I also propose that we vote on the two motions next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-eerstekamer-11.u90	I shall then suspend the meeting pending the return of the initiators and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy for the initiative proposal on the Climate Act.
