ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the statement by the Council of State on the Strategy Programme on Nitrogen. I would like to welcome the three directors and as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. These are exciting times: we are awaiting the climate agreement; we are having a biodiversity crisis; we are waiting for the Urgendavonnis measures and we were informed this afternoon about the huge manure crisis in the Netherlands. But the good thing is that all these problems can be solved with the same measures: reduced speed on the highway, no new airports, accelerated introduction of electric driving and a shrinkage of livestock. And tonight we'll do the nitrogen problem. If you take a map of Europe with nitrogen emissions measured by a satellite, you will see a large red spot on the site of the Netherlands. Our full land with motorways, airports and intensive livestock farming is champion nitrogen emissions. Dutch nature suffers from this. Rare plants disappear and over the last 100 years 80% of the biodiversity in the Netherlands has disappeared. In Europe, it has been agreed that countries will reverse the decline in biodiversity. The Netherlands has identified 160 Natura 2000 sites. It is our contribution to a European network of nature reserves. From Zeeland to Groningen, from Friesland to Limburg: European protected nature is never far away. The judge has spoken now. Nature in the Netherlands is not sufficiently protected. The idea was: if we promise to reduce nitrogen emissions, we can continue building roads and expanding agricultural holdings. The reality is that nitrogen emissions did not fall but increased. Nature continued to deteriorate and it needs time to recover, even if emissions were to fall acutely now. And what's next? You would say: time for making choices, because if you want to protect nature, you cannot and cannot be the second largest exporting country in the world and fight traffic jams with more asphalt and even build an airport. You have to have the courage to choose. Does the cabinet dare to do that, and what does it choose? The omens are not favorable. The cabinet set up a crisis staff led by Minister Schouten, we read in the newspaper on Saturday. And we heard Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen talking about bumps and making up a ruse. She wants to take everything out of the closet to save it, and by that, she doesn't mean nature. Mr. Chairman. My colleague Remco Dijkstra of the VVD makes the most of it. He said that we are there with the Wadden and the Veluwe as Natura 2000 sites, thus pushing 158 areas with Dutch top nature aside. Question to the three ministers: is that the solution, less natural areas, to be able to roll out asphalt and livestock farming further? If not, and I hope that the ministers' answer to my question is no, what will the cabinet do to restore the diversity of species in nature? Does the cabinet agree with me that there is a need for sharp choices and who or what is at stake in this? Mr. Chairman. We have more problems than the PAS alone. We need to take action in response to the Urgendavonnis. We need to take climatological measures to meet the Paris climate agreements. We need to comply with international agreements on biodiversity recovery. We are moving towards a revolution in agriculture, circular agriculture. And the great thing is that for all these problems the solution is the same: fewer cattle and no increase in asphalt and air traffic. In my second term, I will make concrete proposals for this on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. Please stand still, because there is a question for you, Mrs. Old Hand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u4	GroenLinks and the Party for Animals tend to pull together strongly in defending nature. We were also the only two parties that voted against the Nitrogen Programme because it would be unsustainable. But we can see in the analyses that the big problem is political backbone. There is no lack of analysis of what needs to be done, but you have to have the courage to make choices. In that light, I was very surprised that GroenLinks agreed to take the formula to Zandvoort 1. This is also close to a vulnerable Natura 2000 site. Can GroenLinks say here today: we're not going to do that? Because it is really necessary to keep the rows closed for nature and to call on other parties to stand their backs as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u5	I have noticed that the last few days in debates we are holding here in the Chamber, MPs are very happy to decide where local policy freedom lies. We had a debate yesterday on the housing issue, and one after the other Member of the European Parliament spoke very loudly about housing in Utrecht instead of windmills. Now it is the Party for Animals that says: GroenLinks must decide that there will be no formula 1 in Zandvoort. We have set it up in the Netherlands in such a way that we have democratically elected municipal councils that make decisions and democratically elected provincial boards. GroenLinks thinks they weigh the interests there. We are not going to judge this from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u6	But now Mrs. Bromet is really losing me. What nature needs, for twenty years, are politicians who have the guts to say: great fun, it sounds like a fun party, but nature prevails! That's what we say to livestock, that's what we say to Lelystad Airport. You may want to, but here we have the natural interest to defend. Then I find it incredibly sad when a fellow fighter for nature in the city council of Zandvoort and in North Holland, where GroenLinks is the largest party, agrees to such a nature-destructive event. Don't do that, because we need GroenLinks to keep the rest of the promise for nature. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u7	When it comes to protecting nature, the Party for Animals always finds me by its side. I would advise the Animal Party to participate in the elections, so that it can also place its vote in the city council of Zandvoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u8	That sounds like entrapment, but that aside. I heard the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance say all kinds of things here. I just grabbed the RIVM site here. "The national average nitrogen deposition in 1990 amounted to more than 2,700 mols of nitrogen per hectare and has since gradually fallen to the current level of more than 1,700 mols of nitrogen per hectare." What do you mean, "a rise in nitrogen"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u9	Not only do you have to look at nitrogen emissions, but you also have to look at the accumulation of nitrogen in the soil. It is true that this nitrogen accumulates in the soil and as long as nitrogen is released, that nitrogen will be added to the soil and the rare plants will be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u10	That answer sounds nice, but it doesn't make sense in practice. There's just a drop in nitrogen. Recognize that, I say to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Just be honest about that being a fact in the Netherlands and don't try to hang up other stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u11	The judge has spoken and he has said very clearly: there is far too much nitrogen in the Netherlands and nature is not well protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u12	I am a bit more cautious, given the scenes today with aldermen of GroenLinks in Amsterdam. Well, then, be careful. Are you happy now that the PAS is off the table? Because I can't imagine GroenLinks getting very excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u13	GroenLinks has never been for the PAS. We do not believe that you can roll out asphalt, and open airports, and allow livestock farming to go ahead, while at the same time protecting nature. So we think there should be a choice now, as I just said. Of course there is no joy, because nature is in poor condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u14	Okay, so if it's GroenLinks, then nature goes above the rest in the Netherlands? Just say it's all locked up, as long as nature survives. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u15	No, you didn't understand. I have said that I will make proposals in second term, and one of them is very easy, which we can introduce tomorrow. That is reducing the maximum speed from 130 km/h to 100 km/h and then there is a lot of nitrogen emissions less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u16	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr President, that is also a form of entrapment! You know what happens then? I would like to put that to GroenLinks. Because of all the roads that are now stopped by this PAS, we are all nicely paid to stand in traffic. Do you know how much emissions that will cause? Do you think that's a good idea for GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u18	GroenLinks didn't invent the PAS. GroenLinks has not agreed to the PAS. That these are now the consequences is not due to GroenLinks either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u19	About the figures, because if you go back far enough in Dutch history, then you will get a dramatic pleasure of figures to put the current situation into perspective. I would just like to point out that today we have received a report from the Court of Auditors, which literally says that nitrogen emissions from livestock farming are increasing in the Netherlands. I was wondering if Mrs Bromet read that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u20	Oh, yeah. I have just mentioned that in my contribution. I also find it shocking, especially since there are still parties here in the Chamber who deny it and who just pretend like nothing is going on. However, I have seen them sitting at the meeting with the Court of Auditors this afternoon, so they will have heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u21	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mr. Chairman. The ruling on the Programme Approach Nitrogen causes a crisis situation in the Netherlands. It is not an acute crisis, which is already visible today, but a crisis that the Netherlands is slowly but surely facing. Dutch people notice because their new house is longer waiting for them, and construction companies will slowly see their order book dry up. A great deal has already been said in recent weeks about the major projects affected by the decision of the Council of State. However, this statement shows that many other projects are also at risk, such as dike increase, approach to rail tracks, the construction of wind farms and the expansion of a regional hospital. For example, a large part of the municipalities in Gelderland have the Veluwe as Natura 2000 area around the corner. Even adding a few homes and smaller extensions of low-environmental local business sites will become impossible. These are developments that are of great importance for the viability of many villages in the Netherlands. The Approach Programme Nitrogen should not therefore be used as a basis for authorisation for activities. The consequences of this statement seem disastrous, especially since the PAS was already a plan B. It is disastrous because the economic development of the Netherlands is in danger of falling silent. The authorisation has been suspended since the ruling. Can the Cabinet indicate when the authorisation can be resumed? The big question that needs to be answered is: is there a solution, or are we going to engage each other in order to end up with nothing? As far as the VVD is concerned, there are possibilities to bring the balance back. Earlier, I indicated the need for a top-level crisis team to come up with a solution quickly, precisely because of the great urgency of this issue. Communication about the consequences should also be much clearer. Developers of economic and spatial projects have no idea who they can contact. Can the Minister indicate that this team will be there? What will be the precise work of that team? Is the Minister prepared to report to the Chamber on the work of the team on a monthly basis? Is this also using the space that legal experts have already appointed at the fitness check, such as redrafting designation decisions? Will we also look at the scope that the European Convention on the Functioning of the European Union allows a Member State to take into account environmental conditions in its region? And how far is the Ministry implementing the April 2016 SGP/CDA motion asking for the possibility of prioritising within the designation decision in the context of the actualisation of the target document? The preparation has been under way since autumn 2018. Can the Minister promise that this update will take place this autumn?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u23	I'm interrupting you because there are two interruptions. The first is from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u24	I hear the VVD talking about the designation decisions of Natura 2000 sites. And also because of the explanation given by the VVD on the radio earlier today, I get the feeling that the VVD wants to solve this problem by abolishing the protected nature. Could you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u25	As far as we're concerned, we're sticking to the Nature Protection Act. Nor are we going to delete the number of Natura 2000 sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u26	However, you strongly suggest this. I want you to really distance yourself from that. We have a court ruling here that we simply have to implement. In the Netherlands we have the grutto, the national bird. He's under a lot of pressure. I do not think it is right to say that when the grutto is extinct, we do not need to protect him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u27	I refer to a motion of the SGP and the CDA from April 2016. It provides for the possibility of prioritising within the designation decision. All this can be done in the context of the actualisation of the target document. It's already started. Like I said, we'll abide by the Nature Protection Act. We're all gonna have to do that because it's a law. Nor will we remove the number of Natura 2000 sites, as I told you. It is only a re-evaluation of the designation decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u28	In my view, Natura 2000 sites are identified with designation decisions. That does suggest that either there are deletions, or that you push it so far behind in time that by the time the VVD is ready there will be no nature at all to point out at all. I'd like to ask the VVD to be more specific. You can use big words, but then I ask: what is going to disappear or what gets smaller? Take the Weerribben-Wieden, where your party colleague lobbies Mayor Rob Bats for money to achieve Natura 2000 goals in terms of layout areas. Can you reassure your partymate that this will continue as far as the VVD is concerned? Or are we gonna drop him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u29	As far as we are concerned, we will stop redefining Natura 2000 sites, for the time being. First of all, let us take a step in the right direction and see how far we are now and when we can get the permit back on track. As regards the re-evaluation of the designation decision: On the one hand, we have territorial protection. It is very clear in the designation decision. On the other hand, we have individual species protection. It's back in the management plan. If we re-assess the designation decisions, we can do that again, now that the evaluation of the target document is going to take place, we will hit two birds with one stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u30	Literally. Now I understand Mr Weverling better. I should not ask him which areas are going to be removed, but what species the VVD wants gone. Can he say anything? Is it the tree frog we give up for the VVD's asphalt drive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u31	As I said, we will not want to build asphalt in Natura 2000 sites. But all other projects in the Netherlands should be able to proceed as well as possible. We want the designation decisions to be looked at and we are looking over time. There are species falling off and species are being added. This can be taken into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u32	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u33	The occasional loss of weight is at the heart of the problem. So the judge said, "What you do is not enough."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u34	You can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u35	That's not what the judge says either. The judge said the system doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u36	Looks like the VVD's still a little bit in denial. There has been a judge who has said: it is not possible, nature is not well protected; the Netherlands, you must do better. This means that we need to choose, as I have just said in my contribution. You call yourself a whole list of projects. What exactly is the VVD going to choose? Which projects are so important to you that they must continue and which projects do you say you can live with if they do not continue? For example, the speed increase, which doesn't help if you want to drive faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u37	Tonight, those choices aren't ahead of us. The point is that we have a workable legal system so that we can get back to licensing as soon as possible and the Netherlands is not economically closed. That's what's in store. Eventually, entrepreneurs must be able to undertake and a cow must be able to stand in the meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u38	I fully agree with Mr Weverling on that last point. I do not think that is the problem at all. But I note that it has not yet penetrated the VVD that something really needs to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u39	We are in favour of balance and a swift legal solution to the situation we are now in together. I'll follow. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, we're going back to base. Of course, the Birds and Habitats Directives are the basis for the designation of Natura 2000 sites. Only how each Member State applies it is up to the Member State itself. The Minister is in the process of identifying new areas and allocating additional species to existing areas. Can it promise that no new Natura 2000 sites will be designated until further notice and additional species added, unless after consultation with the Chamber, while ensuring that the proposed sites do not have an external appearance on economic activities in the immediate vicinity? Can the Minister provide an overview of the current status of the 118 of 163 nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites, indicating whether these areas are specifically qualified for these nitrogen-sensitive species, the habitat types? We would also like to read what measures have been taken: conservation measures, preventive measures or protective measures. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The ruling also has an impact on supervision and enforcement. Some entrepreneurs are currently in breach because they have reported in good faith. Is the Minister prepared to announce some kind of tolerance decision, so that a proper licence can first be applied for and entrepreneurs are not subject to enforcement and ultimately have to pay a penalty payment? Has there been any thought about who's gonna pay for any damages claims? I would like to call on the rulers to clarify quickly the questions that have been raised following the decision of the Council of State. This is important for everyone, not only for nature, but also for the economy. Can the Minister undertake to provide an insight as soon as possible into how she intends to deal with this complex issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u40	I've been waiting for the whole story of Mr. Weverling. I thought, maybe it's still coming and he's going to say something about nitrogen volumes that need to be reduced. But he doesn't say anything about that. He revolves around the hot stuff and talks with flour in his mouth. To be honest, I'm not used to that from the VVD. My question to Mr Weverling is whether he realises that the nitrogen deposition in the country needs to be substantially reduced. If he shares that view, is he prepared to make it clear where and by what measures this deposition should be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u41	I don't think I'm talking with flour in my mouth, but I was pretty clear. We call for a review of the designation decisions. That is also what we are in favour of and what we are looking forward to seeing happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u42	From this I may conclude that the VVD sees no need to take source measures to reduce the nitrogen deposition and that the VVD also sees no reason to extend and intensify recovery measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u43	The Council of State has ruled on the system of the PAS, the Programme Approach Nitrogen. That was already plan B, because before we just had the individual permit. Plan B has therefore proved inadequate, so a new solution must be devised as soon as possible so that both nature and economic development can be balanced and all these projects, which are also in the cabinet's letter, can proceed as quickly as possible. Eventually, of course, we want to build 1 million homes until 2030. Well, that's a lot of work. Those houses need to be built. So there are many other wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u44	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u45	I note that Mr Weverling is not answering my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u46	Perhaps I could help Mr Weverling. I remind him of the advice of the VVBI Advisory Committee. This was one of the many opinions reached by the Chamber and the Cabinet when the issue of the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen was considered. This was the Advisory Committee on Acceleration and Improvement Decision-making Infrastructure. Yeah, that's in the alley of the VVD! That advisory committee said at the time: if nature does not recover, you can write new permits on your stomach; you have to restore nature and only then will there be room for economic developments again. Why did the VVD ignore that at the time? Is the VVD prepared to acknowledge that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u47	It is a question of reinventing the system of licensing. That's the point. An advance on possible nitrogen emissions was made in the system. That proved not to be legal and was not sufficient. A solution must be found as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u48	Yes, but that was already clear before the VVD agreed to the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. The Council of State said, well, I don't think it's gonna last. The Commission for the m.e.r. said, "I don't think it's gonna work." And the yet uncontested committee that is in favour of speeding up the decision-making on infrastructure, which the VVD loves, said: with the deteriorating state of nature, such an approach will not work. This is what the VVD knew. All this has been sent to us and all this has gone to the cabinet, to which the VVD participated. If you ignored that then, and you're asking for a solution again, we already have the answer, right? If the quality of nature does not improve, there is no solution for what the VVD wants here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u49	In Plan A, before we had the PAS, it was about individual licensing. Then there was no evidence of how much nitrogen it would go and was also not by governments to test where it would fall down. That's why that PAS was conceived as some kind of dashboard. Now it appears that the advance on nitrogen in it is not valid. It is therefore a matter of getting a system that works as quickly as possible. We stand here for the interests of nature, but certainly also for the economic interests. The point is that the Netherlands can also continue to develop economically. There are many other things in all matters of economic importance, such as housing, wind farms and dikes. In that respect, everyone in this house should feel addressed by forcing a breakthrough as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u50	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u51	Yes, Chairman, finally. It wasn't like that. The quality of nature was poor. As a result, the judge went on to carry out stricter tests and therefore no new permits were granted for the expansion of livestock farming. That's why the Programmatic Approach is invented Nitrogen. Not to serve the nature goals...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u53	... but because there was a need for permits, which means that livestock farms are now legalized that should not have been there at all. And that's what's bothering the VVD right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u54	You may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u55	Now, I think it would be nice if we moved on to the order of business as soon as possible, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u56	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the third speaker from the Chamber, Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u57	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a decision by the Council of State to bring nature back into balance with the economy. That's also good, because the economy can't live without nature. The time for an economy on natural credit is over. The Council of State's ruling concerns nitrogen released in agriculture, transport and industry. Too much nitrogen spread over nature is like cutting trees. Nitrogen destroys nature. One of the problems is that Dutch nature is not robust enough. In 1992 we agreed that the main ecological structure would be realized in 2018. It's going to be 2027 now, and it's just a question of whether we're gonna make it. What is our nature actually like? Do we know what good conservation is? A recent evaluation showed that this is not yet clear. And why is the good conservation status not really defined for nature in the Environmental Act, when it has happened for water and air, for example? I am asking this because in recent years we have been given quite a lot of attention when it comes to implementing European legislation, for example on phosphate or pulse fishing. And we already know that we are not going to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. The way in which the Netherlands has completed the environmental impact assessment is also under a magnifying glass. We think we're the smartest girl in the class, but we're walking away from it. We are not going to make that mistake next week in integrating the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act. D66 wants the cabinet to identify the risks we are facing. I do not think that enterprising the Netherlands is waiting for Dutch laws to come every six months. That's why D66 wants the cabinet to take five steps. 1. We need to see the nitrogen load from the various sources. We can do that today during this debate. Where did all this nitrogen come from? 2. The cabinet should inventory where nitrogen emissions can be reduced in the short term and, not insignificantly, at what cost. This step is needed to reduce the burden on nature. 3. D66 wants the cabinet to include the good state of nature as an environmental value in the Environment Act. We will be tabling an amendment on this next week. 4. D66 wants the cabinet to map the nitrogen gains of the climate agreement, so that we can also see the benefits of this agreement for nature towards 2030. Because if you shut down a coal power plant, you'll also reduce nitrogen emissions. Often, the climate benefits nature as well. 5. D66 wants to see the priorities of the cabinet when it comes to allocating space for the economy. We have agreements, and we have to keep them. People also want to live, work and travel. Today, nature is on the verge of the longest. The Netherlands has long lived on the puff of Mother Nature. It is now time to restore balance between economy and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u58	I have listened to Mr De Groot's story and I know a lot about it. It is absolutely true that we need to make nature more robust and finish the EHS, perhaps in its original form, so I say to the coalition parties. I realize that Mr De Groot is in a coalition with limited space and I do not want to embarrass him too much, but I sincerely ask him: does he see a way out of this impasse without a substantial reduction in nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands? That wasn't in his five points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u59	That was in my second point. The answer is yes. You just have to follow the judge's ruling. That means making sure that nature and the economy are balanced. The judge has made it very clear: go protect that nature. If you want to have further economic growth, and we all want to live, work and travel, then you will have to reduce nitrogen emissions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u60	Okay, we'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u61	That's just what the judge's ruling says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u62	That should happen. Mr De Groot mentioned possible side effects of the climate agreement. He understands what I mean. Does Mr. De Groot have any other directions to get that number down? He asked for numbers. As a tip that 42% of livestock emissions come from livestock production.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u63	I don't know... I'm sure you have a suggestion, knowing you. There are incredibly many things that are on the roll right now. We've asked for an inventory of projects. There has been a limited overview. If there's one thing that matters here, it's care. The legislation did not come into being carefully enough afterwards. Now let's do this quickly and carefully. Then it doesn't fit here to say: we're gonna pull a line through there and we're gonna do it. But we're not ruling anything out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u64	A very short closing word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u65	It is right that we should look at the consequences and the legislation, but I believe that the problem, the cause, is very clear, namely too much nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u67	I too am pleased that D66 is in any case in the position that this is the judge's ruling and that the nitrogen deposition should be reduced. Otherwise, we can't move on, no matter what your political color or coalition interest is. But I am concerned when I hear D66 say: let's see what the climate agreement delivers. The climate agreement is careful around the problem and that is the number of animals in the Netherlands. The whole Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is made up to protect livestock farming. The choice that has to be made is to reduce the number of animals we breed, use and kill in Dutch livestock farming. Is D66 now, following her claim that the judge's ruling should be respected and that the nitrogen deposition should be reduced, prepared to focus on a substantial reduction in livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u68	I have an offer for Mrs. Ouwehand. Let's do this. We'll start with at least one million pigs less. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u69	That's what I'm here for. I am very concerned about whether it will actually be a million. The Minister does not want to answer the question of how much this clean-up really delivers. And I find 60 million to be allocated to new subsidies and investment in new stables, even in the vicinity of those nature reserves, rather unwise. In my opinion, more needs to be done than that announced clean-up and it needs to be done smarter. Is D66 willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u70	Yes, that's how I recognize Mrs. Ouwehand. We're actually doing exactly what the Party has been calling for the Animals for a long time. We're going to reduce the number of animals. I understand that from her position she immediately says from the sidelines: that must be more. That might be possible, but of course I am not going to go into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u71	Of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u72	And on that point, too. Mr De Groot pretends to make an offer: we are going to remove a million pigs from the Netherlands. But that's the offer that's been there for two years. I think we've all come up with new facts. My colleague Mr Futselaar has already said that 42% of nitrogen emissions come from livestock farming. We do not need to investigate that further, as you ask, it is simply known. If you want to clean up livestock in a social way, you need a lot of time. Does Mr De Groot think it is justified to move that forward for another two years, or does he say that I have come to a point where I want to start making a plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u73	That plan is there. You have to reduce the number of animals. That's what we're doing. In the simplest version, the radical vision of the new food production that D66 is making itself hard for, namely circular agriculture, simply comes down to the following. We are now bringing all these cereals and raw materials from all over the world to the Netherlands. That's what we stop jungles for. We give them to animals, which then turn them into manure and, of course, meat. That's what's causing emissions. The Court of Auditors said this afternoon: you can throw more rules at that, but that is not going to work. Of this, D66 says: we must move towards a radical change in the way we produce food. That is exactly what this cabinet is going to do with circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u74	We've heard that story. That does not add anything to the situation that has arisen. I hope that Mr De Groot will be prepared to extend his first bid of one million less pigs, achieved two years ago in the coalition agreement, in response to this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u75	Yeah, I understand that hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u76	But you don't want to say anything about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u77	No, I'm not gonna say anything about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u78	Thank you. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u79	It is good that we are beginning to clean up the livestock and the number of pigs. It's just plain clear that 1 million pigs less will not solve the current problem. That doesn't give enough environmental space to make all these stationary projects go smoothly. My question is whether D66 is prepared to take unorthodox measures, including on matters that are absolved by the coalition agreement. One example is the reduction of the maximum speed, or the further reduction of the livestock. Is that willingness there at D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u80	The judge's ruling doesn't lie. We've lived on nature's puff for too long. Now we must restore the economy and nature. That can only be done with an unorthodox approach. That's why the cabinet is sitting here with three ministers. That's why we have a very full room. That's because clearly this isn't a business as usual. We will have to take unorthodox measures. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u81	I appreciate that answer. From this I make it clear that a number of things on the basis of new facts and circumstances for D66 have not been poured into concrete. My question to Mr De Groot is as follows. He has heard Mr Weverling from the VVD. Nitrogen reduction at source and recovery measures are not the path of the VVD. How are you going to convince your coalition partner that there has to be a change of course?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u82	The approach of the VVD was also a bit unorthodox, I'll say. Of course, it is not the intention to protect nature less in order to invent a trick. Everything we make up just needs to do justice to the judge's ruling. We live in a rule of law. Everything we come up with must do justice to the agreements we have made in Europe on the protection of our nature. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u83	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u84	I estimate that this will be a clash of two orthodoxies in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u85	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u86	Thank you, Mr President. We had a break before the chair was at the right height. Mr. Chairman. Nature can't afford a break anymore. The Netherlands is the most densely stocked country in the world. Nowhere in the world are there as many animals on such a small surface as in our country. You can see that, because we are also in the top five of the biggest nitrogen pollutants in the world. That's been a problem for a while. The Animal Party finds it scandalous that you do not want to protect nature by yourself, but that you say: we must regulate it at European level; if Germany does not have nature conservation plans, then neither do we. We find it scandalous that you do not think of yourself that you can literally make other species of life so sour that, for example, coleslaws don't even have enough lime to form their eggs. The young in those eggs can't even create a full-fledged skeleton because of the enormous acidification we cause. This is largely due to livestock farming. I find it really scandalous that you, as a national parliament, do not think that you should not do that. Anyway, that's the situation. So what has the Netherlands done? European agreements on nature conservation. That's the right we've been dealing with for years now. The problem was that because of the European rules that have been implemented in Dutch legislation, the authorisation in the livestock sector ran smoothly. Yeah, you can't keep expanding. You can't dump any more ammonia into fragile nature. And because the permit was locked, the CDA came up with a trick: a programmatic approach to nitrogen. The Labour Party was told that nature conservation legislation was so strict that it prevented you from building windmills. That's why Diederik Samsom joined us. Since 2009, we have been working on a programmed approach to nitrogen, which was already clear from the outset that it was not intended to protect nature, but to facilitate the granting of permits. We've been warned outbursts from the very first moment. It had to be included in the Crisis and Recovery Act. Then came the elaboration with Secretary of State Dijksma. The Council of State said, "I don't think it's sustainable." The Commission for the m.e.r. said: I don't think it's sustainable. Undisputed consultancies who deal with the question of how to speed up decision-making on infrastructure also came to the same conclusion as those nature conservation lawyers had long drawn: if you continue to deteriorate nature, the judge will take a stricter test. Then there's nothing left, so just make sure you meet the quality of nature first. It's a simple statute of limitations. How minimal do you want it? Make sure nature doesn't deteriorate any further. If the Netherlands had complied, we would not have had such a big problem. But no, the government wouldn't abide by its own law. I hope that the fine words of the VVD and D66 have just been fulfilled. After all, the law says that vulnerable nature in Natura 2000 sites should not deteriorate further. If we had focused on this and not with that blind hatred of nature so incredibly cut the natural budget, we would not have had these problems. De Boerderij rightly writes: in a country with such straying drivers it is bad business. Not only is nature bad off, but farmers also have nothing to gain from this. What good is it if the permits you thought you had inside don't turn out to be completely waterproof? And what about the Minister's firm statement that irrevocable permits would actually be irrevocable? In my view, the Council of State has questions for a preliminary ruling before the European Court with exactly that question. If the Netherlands has issued a licence that is irrevocable, but still violates European law, what should we do? There is indeed a ground for withdrawal when it comes to violating the prohibition on deterioration. How can it be that today the province of Friesland has granted a permit? After this ruling, after the Minister's letters? How can that happen? Can the Minister clarify the number of livestock farms that actually have a debatable permit? I asked for the presence of the Minister of Finance here, because I do not exclude that companies will have to be bought out. If the government says: here you have a permit, which is knowingly contrary to European law, then such an entrepreneur is entitled to say: yes, but if I have to leave, then I want compensation for it, because you have given me a permit. Was there even an analysis of that? Mr. Chairman. It's time for choices. We knew it. Everyone's been able to read all the advice. The analysis was at the time: MPs have no backbone. The VVD also said: yes, we don't actually believe in the PAS, but we still agree. This is knowingly taking risks with nature, with the interests of entrepreneurs and with the long-term environment. Making choices: shrinking livestock, less speeding, no Lelystad Airport, not even with the climate targets hanging over the market, nor with formula 1 in Zandvoort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u87	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is locked. In short, this is the consequence of the ruling of the Council of State. No more permits are granted under the Nature Conservation Act. Thousands of activities notified and exempted have expired retroactively. Not only have thousands of entrepreneurs been affected, but also governments and not least the Empire itself, which is now all under pressure of major infrastructure projects, some of which are very controversial politically, such as Lelystad airport. That statement by the Council of State is a bit like a bucket of cold water in the face of a country, of a government, of a politics, which nevertheless has built up a theoretical nitrogen system which in practice proved to have hardly any relation to reality. That is the reflex in the Dutch nature debate. If things get tough, we'll run into technology. When ten years ago it appeared that Natura 2000 sites, our most important, most vulnerable natural areas, prevented all kinds of economic developments because they caused too much nitrogen, the conclusion was not that that amount of nitrogen needed to be reduced, but that a huge system was built that would make both possible: protection of nature and economic development, alongside each other. That was a beautiful polder compromise. Everybody's happy. The problem, however, is that the theoretical progress indicated by the system did not correspond to what we measure and measure in daily practice. It's not working. In fact, nitrogen production was increasing and increasing, as we saw in the Court of Auditors' report today, which also states that the government has little control over nitrogen emissions from livestock farming. In fact, you can say that only the "creation of space for companies within the PAS" component has succeeded. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is locked. Every now and then I hear cheering about it, about planned barn extensions that can't go on, about Lelystad that may be gone right now. I understand that joy very well, but I cannot share it, because administrative chaos is not desirable. Instead of stopping the moving train and turning around, as we should have done, we completely derailed it. In fact, he drove right through the station hall. As a SP'er, it does not make me happy if necessary housing cannot go through, if dike increases cannot go through or if cows can no longer come out. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is locked and that is a problem. So let's try to solve that problem. Let's not look for new legal shortcuts or build new theoretical air castles. The problem is that we have too much nitrogen emissions. That's the real problem. That is not the ruling of the Court, it is not the European rules. We have too much nitrogen and our biodiversity, our nature, our animals and plants are slowly going down. We also know the solutions. Two are the most obvious: less aviation, starting with a line through Lelystad, and less livestock farming. That's the point. In her letter to the Chamber, the Minister is right to say that innovation is not enough. I would therefore ask the Minister to draw the conclusion from that analysis that we cannot manage with innovation alone: less nitrogen, less aviation, less livestock farming. Can she agree to that? Mr. Chairman. One of the most undesirable consequences of the ruling is that grazing has now actually been made illegal. The SP has always been committed to more grazing, so for us this is an unacceptable situation. In the letter, the Minister states that a pragmatic solution will be sought. Can she indicate any expectations? How quickly, how easily can this be arranged, does she think? Can she confirm that there will be no maintenance of pasture farmers in the coming month at least? Dan, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u89	Just a moment, because Mrs Ouwehand comes from behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u90	In my view, the Minister should also realise that a majority in the Chamber wants all cows, not 80% of the farms or so, but all cows, to be able to go into the pastures and that grazing cows cause less nitrogen deposition than cows trapped in the stables. I think it would be a good idea to give those two reminders when we ask the Minister about the grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u91	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u92	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u93	I'm gonna have a hell of a seizure. Soon, then. Can we do something for some of the harrowing cases that are already standing up? Overijssel writes us an example of an farmer being moved because of nature and he is now stuck halfway through the displacement. That seems to be the kind of exception we might have to do something for right now. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is locked. That is a problem, but it is also an opportunity to do well now, to turn administrative chaos into administrative action and to set up a nature policy that has a real effect, not just on paper. We don't need a program approach to nitrogen. We just need a nitrogen approach. Can the cabinet provide for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u94	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u95	Mr. Chairman. We live in a densely populated country with a lot of traffic and activity and beautiful nature reserves. The fact that these are many small areas that host nitrogen-sensitive habitats does not make it any easier. For the protection of these areas with regional measures and for the development of businesses, such as new animal and environmental stables, infrastructure, housing, the CDA, together with the PvdA, has come up with the idea of the Programmed Approach Nitrogen. Unfortunately, it is not legally sustainable in two areas in particular. The reduction must be achieved before the space created by this can be used for activities. In addition, permits are also needed for small activities, for which notifications were now possible. The same applies to pastures and fertilising. A very legal hair clover that has great consequences and we have to deal with them. Mr. Chairman. With the ruling of the Council of State, we're nowhere near there. A programme that makes it possible to make an integral balance between what can and cannot be done in nature reserves remains necessary. The CDA reads that a group of official specialists are working on solutions. In view of the enormous importance of an early solution which does not make it a tricky one, the CDA believes that a state committee or a task force, like the Trojan Committee at the time, is better equipped to find a comprehensive solution. Is the cabinet prepared to set it up? Mr. Chairman. In the short term, the consequences are considerable. A lot of activities and companies are so locked up. Can the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State indicate how many infrastructure projects the Empire is involved in? And can the Home Secretary indicate how many housing projects are involved? How much time it takes to prepare ADC tests for these projects, I ask the directors. If the path of the ADC tests is taken, how does it work for small and medium-sized enterprises? Do the Ministers agree that a joint solution must be found for all economic activities and that the provinces and municipalities must also be specifically involved or be given a role in this? Mr. Chairman. In the short term, solutions are also needed. There is the problem of activities which have only been reported but for which a licence is still required. I would like to ask the Minister, through the President, about the reports and what kind of solutions are envisaged. In the case of pastures, it really turns the world upside down: such a socially desirable activity requires a permit which cannot be given at the moment. Here's what I was wondering. Can the dairy farmers who are going to feed get a fine? And what is the Minister going to do about this? I'm not talking about feeding the cows. I'm talking about the fine. How do we ensure that farmers can just let their animals go? Because of what has come out in the last few days, I have already had a lot of emails from organic farmers asking how they should deal with that. Mr. Chairman. Agriculture, in particular, is taking measures to reduce nitrogen deposition within the framework of the PAS. Now the development space that comes from it is no longer likely to become available via the PAS. Does the Minister agree with me that the commitments made in the past need to be kept so that the agricultural sector is also rewarded for its efforts? And if these efforts have been made, can they possibly be deployed by salading?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u96	A brief question about the explanation given by the CDA to the ruling of the Council of State. I heard Mr Geurts say: "legal furry." Can the CDA Group at least acknowledge that this is exactly what we have been warned about: the worse nature is going to be, the stricter the judge will be? So we could have seen this coming. The fact that there is now such a strict, harsh statement is a direct result of the poor nature quality and the spending of nitrogen space when there was no nitrogen space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u97	Let me give you the explanation, because we haven't heard it tonight. I think it would be a good idea for Members to read that statement properly. On the basis of the PAS, future positive impacts of measures on protected natural areas were already authorised for activities that may be harmful to those areas. The Council of State said that prior authorisation should no longer be allowed. That's what it's about in the core. With this legal answer, I have just lost Mrs Ouwehand's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u98	I'm sure she's gonna repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u99	Yes, I actually have to laugh a little when the CDA group in this file says to the Animal Party: you need to read the pronunciation better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u100	Oh, yeah, that was him. I've got it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u101	For we were warned in detail before the PAS came. One of the analyses provided to the Chamber by many different experts is: the worse nature is and the more nitrogen space you release, the stricter the judge will test. In fact, because this happened, the permit was stuck and the PAS was invented. Legal hair clover? No, exactly cause and effect. Bad nature? Tighter judge. That's the way it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u102	It is something else, but I think we also had this debate around 2013 together with Mrs Ouwehand, or at least with GroenLinks, I remember. At the same time, I was asked whether I could guarantee that PAS legislation was 100% judge proof. I literally said there: well, I can never give the guarantee that it's 100% waterproof. Mrs Ouwehand may be laughing here, but I really don't understand that cheer. Does Mrs Ouwehand really think that our young people should no longer live and that our young people should no longer have a job? I think it's really special.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u103	Hello!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u104	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u105	Yeah, I'm standing right here, and you're standing right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u106	Finally, briefly, a final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u107	The CDA has brought this drama about the Netherlands. The authorisation in the livestock sector was locked up and that was because the nature conservation law set a limit on the number of animals in our country. The CDA wouldn't accept that. Then there was a magic trick invented. It was called Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. We've been warned about that. The CDA has chosen all the space for livestock farming, putting housing projects at risk. The Animal Party has not agreed to this. The Animal Party has said: go ahead and clean up livestock farming in time. You wouldn't be here tonight. So the cause and effect, as Mr Geurts is now describing here, are entirely on his own account. He asks if the Party for Animals wants young people no longer to be able to live, but you have to choose between livestock farming or housing for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u108	Look, it's as simple as that with the Party for Animals. You can choose between our food production and living. What the Party for Animals says here, of course, is bizarre. I can really say a lot of nice words about that, but it's really bizarre.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u109	First of all, we appreciate the CDA's retroactive admission that GroenLinks was right in 2013. My question concerns the task force that Mr Geurts wants to set up. Is that a task force with brain power, with creative ideas on how to reduce nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands, or is that a legal task force?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u110	As far as the CDA Group is concerned, it is particularly legal to comply with the ruling of the Council of State. A number of speakers have already said that there must be a balance between economy and nature. Yeah, that's true for the CDA, too. That is why we came up with this PAS together with the PvdA group at the time. At the time, in 2013, an amendment by Dijkgraaf/Geurts/Lodders also included external netting in the law, in case it might not go well, because it could. But that was a solution that was then conceived with all kinds of wise people: that there was another possibility through external netting. So the CDA also thought in 2013: if we couldn't do this, could we go further? But with the balance between nature and economy; that has always been the primary goal, otherwise the PvdA and the CDA would never have been able to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u111	It is precisely with that balance that it has gone completely wrong, because nature has destroyed it. In reply to my question, what is going to happen in that task force, Mr Geurts is still not talking about practical measures. I'm very sorry about that. It seems to me to be a very good idea for a group of people to think about the best ways of reducing nitrogen emissions. This includes political choices. I would have liked to ask Mr Geurts if he is prepared to make it, but he is not yet ready; he is still looking for holes in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u112	Looks like it was premeditated to be the last to say this. If I had said I was looking for practical solutions, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would probably have said to me: oh, the CDA is doing a ruse. No, it's about a good follow-up to the ruling of the Council of State. I have a great deal of confidence in the thinking power of the administration in the various ministries, but I also think it is necessary to add outside thinking power, particularly in the legal field, to get the final result Council of Stateproof, so to speak. By the way, here again we hear the story that nature has gotten worse and I don't know what it is. I have a PAS monitoring report on nitrogen here. It simply states that the calculated nitrogen deposition will decrease by 15% between 2014, the reference year of the PAS, and 2030. That was based on the policy there was at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u113	I am not quite clear what Mr Geurts means by the task force or the state committee, because I think he also mentioned that word. At what time would that committee have to pay off? You say "as soon as possible," but I hope we can force a breakthrough this year. What is this committee, other than that super-departmental crisis team we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u114	The VVD asks, "How fast?" Well, as soon as possible. At that time, the Trojan Commission was set up by means of a report in the Official Journal and produced a final report within about three, three and a half months. I expect the cabinet to be working on this very quickly. But if I come up with a date now and say 'it must be by 1 September' and it comes on 2 September, then there are people here at the interrupting microphone who say: the cabinet is not working on the solution and nature is getting worse. So I would like to leave it to the cabinet, and I think that the power of thought is present at the ministry, as I just said, but that external assistance is also needed, in particular to make it further Stateproof Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u115	But it will be before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u116	If Mr Weverling likes to hear that: I would like to have it done tomorrow, because I think the Netherlands is looking forward to clarity. But that's not reality. But certainly this year, and as far as I am concerned September, October. It would be a very good time to plan the follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u117	Mr Geurts proposed that the departments should receive external assistance. I will say here: I am prepared to do so, but I am prepared to do so at an appropriate remuneration. But that's not the question I wanted to ask. Mr Geurts ends his contribution with salading. I find it interesting to talk about this, because for the PAS it happened here and there at provincial level. So legally there will certainly be a possibility, but won't you have the situation in a large part of the Netherlands that there's nothing to salad? To be able to spend something, there's got to be something in it. That seems very difficult to me at the moment. Can Mr Geurts say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u118	The short version is that Mr Futselaar is right about this. In some Natura 2000 sites, there is virtually nothing left to sell. You're just gonna want to build that circular road that's gonna hit it, and you're gonna have a problem. But I think that this power of thought, departmental and external, Mr Futselaar has also offered to think positively, because he also wants our young people to have a home and that our young people have a job, I have just understood from his contribution that this is a nice mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u119	Thank you. Mr Moorlag also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u120	I am sympathetic to the idea of a state committee. I think it is very good if they are independent, authoritative people who are not directly tied to their hands. Let them identify all the alternatives to break the deadlock that has arisen. My question to Mr Geurts is: can Mr Geurts give me the comfort that it should really be an independent, expert and authoritative committee, which does not receive any pre-blocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u121	I did not intend, when I was going to the debate here this evening, to give strict frameworks in relation to the direction of resolution. Then the creative ideas don't come up. I think we should give this committee some room. The cabinet will decide what to do. I didn't come up with a motion with names, like: those-and-those have to be in it. No, I'll leave that to the cabinet. If at a later date, as Mr Weverling asked in September or October, the committee sends its findings to the Chamber through the cabinet, we can all weigh this politically, here in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u122	Mr Futselaar also said that in some cases you can do something with salading or with minor adjustments. But if there really is a blockade and the impasse persists, and you really have to do something with source and recovery measures, then I understand that the committee has the freedom to give an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u123	I think everyone here in the Chamber has the freedom to weigh that. But if the committee comes up with the fact that we don't have to breathe anymore, I don't think I will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u124	Thank you. It's your turn, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is: how do we pass the Netherlands on to future generations? Can young people also be sure that they will receive a country with good natural qualities? And is there enough room for sustainable economic development? Do we find a balance between ecology and economics for them in good time? Mr. Chairman. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen has been a genuine attempt to balance economy and ecology. It does not appear to be sustainable in this form. This does not apply to the whole system, but to the component in which development space is spent, before source and recovery measures have been implemented and have had effect. Mr. Chairman. We must take the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court to heart. Dura lex sed lex: the law is hard, but it is law. Or in Mr. Frank Visser's words, this is what we have to do. There is now an urgent situation. The restoration of nature is stagnating, but also the processing of licence applications for infrastructure and activity has virtually come to a halt. In the Eemshaven there is a company that wants to invest 280 million, a green investment in the recycling of steel with direct employment for 300 people. That's a lot for North Groningen! The CEO of Groningen Seaports told me that the investors were seriously concerned that the realisation has been compromised. That is a serious situation, Mr President. The PvdA focuses on how we can quickly reduce nitrogen deposition, not only for nature restoration but also for creating development space for sustainable economic activity and development. That requires urgency, courage and determination and, frankly, I miss it. How is it possible that there is not yet a package of concrete measures, I ask the rulers. The Council of State's ruling isn't exactly coming out of the blue, is it? The European Court of Justice has already ruled on this, hasn't it? And why have the rulers remained passively staring into the headlights in recent months? Perhaps better said, why do they look like a hare in a light box? Why haven't any scenarios been developed? Why has no package of measures been drawn up? The approach of the cabinet gives little confidence and much discomfort. The letter only contains a process approach. That is all, but where are the concrete measures? When does the cabinet intend to submit a concrete package to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. I note that what is in the letter is limited to a lot of conversations. And I do not know whether circular talks are going to lead to circular agriculture, but more needs to be done. In addition to a sense of urgency, courage and decisiveness are needed. My question to the Minister of LNV is whether she is prepared to finally show courage and decisiveness. Isn't it obvious to start with a vigorous expansion of the warm clean-up of part of pig farming? Shouldn't we stop getting shiploads of food from South America and stuffing it here in chickens and pigs, so that they can then be exported abroad for the most part? Marginal business at high social costs! We are stuck with the shit and with an excess of nitrogen, but also fine dust, CO and phosphate. Questions, Chairman. Are the rulers prepared to take unorthodox measures? Are you prepared to extend a warm clean-up of the livestock to the level that fits within the available environmental space? Are you prepared to allow the reduction of the maximum speed on motorways in your thinking? Are you prepared to offer better and fairer prices for car mobility? And are you prepared to accelerate and intensify the recovery of nature, so that the responsible balance between ecology and economy is achieved more quickly? And what measures does the cabinet intend to take? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u126	Thank you. Ah, there's a question for you from Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u127	The PvdA has been at the basis of this idea, with Mr Samsom and with the later State Secretarys who have brought this idea forward. I would have hoped for some reflection from Mr Moorlag. Would you still be able to do that? Are you prepared to reflect on the way in which the PAS was created, because we are now dealing with the baked pears?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u128	I have stated in my contribution that the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen was a genuine attempt to balance economics and ecology. The European Court of Justice also says in its ruling: the basis of the PAS is good, only what is not right, and we must take that to heart............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the reality now, and we now have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u129	That statement is known to me and that we have lived on the puff, that mortgage, that is also clear. But can you reflect on the creation again? Because that's what my question was about and not about the verdict, because we know it. The question was about 2013 and 2015, when the Chamber under the leadership of the PvdA took these decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u130	I told you how I qualified. It has been a genuine attempt, but we must also note that it has become a legal fixer. Mr De Groot invites me to make extensive historical observations. I don't feel much for that, because that doesn't bring this file any further than an inch. It is now a matter of rethinking and taking concrete measures that are forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u131	Here I would like to add D66 that this cannot remain without reflection. In the end, everyone in the Chamber has agreed, except the Party for Animals and GroenLinks. We have also made proposals to make the programme sustainable, legally sustainable. But it really was a PvdA Secretary of State who had the responsibility for that law, which actually made an opinion of the Council of State quite an urgent rejection: this is just legal quicksand.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then I find it a bit annoying to still pretend here that it was a genuine attempt to reconcile nature and the economy, while it has clearly become an economic programme, ignoring all the concerns of nature. Is Mr Moorlag in any case prepared to acknowledge that? This was about the smoothing of permits and not about protecting nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u132	It was an attempt to unite both, to both achieve an improvement in the state of nature, and to enable development space. We also need development space. If we want to make our society more sustainable, then there are activities and then there are companies that need development space. I believe, and I have said this in my contribution, that the restoration of nature needs to be stepped up and that we need to reduce the nitrogen deposition significantly. I don't make concessions to nature law. The Labour Party never wanted to do that. We simply need to learn from this statement and see with a strong package of measures that we are now going to achieve that balance between economics and ecology.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u133	I really think this is too cheap. It was not a genuine attempt to reconcile nature and economy. The fact that the Labour Party is now saying: oh, it has now turned out and I now have a number of measures, does not alter the fact that the Labour Party, with a responsible Secretary of State, has knowingly run major legal risks with the introduction of this programme in this form. The ban on deterioration, which must not lead to a deterioration in the quality of nature in Natura 2000 sites, was already in force. We wanted to ensure that in the Programmed Approach Nitrogen, but the Secretary of State rejected all of these amendments. And the Labour Party has all voted against it, knowingly and knowingly, because the opinions that it was legally untenable and that nature would not improve were meters high. It was sold to us as if it were a genuine attempt to combine nature and economy, but it was not, and it would adorn Mr Moorlag if he admitted it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u134	As far as I'm following Mrs Ouwehand's story, there's a flaw in it, namely that she assumes that the House of Representatives consists of 150 meek lambs. It was not just the Labour Party, it was the vast majority in this Chamber who genuinely believed that this balance between economy and ecology was found and that this was the solution to a number of dilemmas. It turns out that's not the case right now. I also said that the verdict is there, and that is what we have to do with it. A number of powerful measures are now needed to restore nature, but also to create new economic development space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u135	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's so funny, the dynamics with all those agricultural spokesmen. That must be said at some point. Mr. Chairman. "It's the world upside down." With these striking words, our farmers expressed the frustrations that arise as a result of the shooting off of the PAS. Because because the Council of State has put a line on this Programme Approaching Nitrogen, there has been an enormous amount of uncertainty about the country, uncertainty that is a direct consequence of European interference in how we deal with our nature here in the Netherlands. The European Court of Justice has dealt with the PAS before, and the Habitats and Natura 2000 dogmas hang us like a millstone around the neck. The EU parties in this parliament loved it all, but oh, oh, oh, oh, they're suddenly angry and bewildered. Mr. Chairman. Soon our cows won't be able to enter the meadow. This beautiful Dutch statue is turned upside down because crazy environmental rules from Brussels demand this. It is too crazy for words that, for example, a whole village like Tubbergen is now in trouble because the municipality is not allowed to issue any permits anymore? And why is all this necessary? In addition to the great evil that is called CO and actually only makes the world greener because it feeds trees and plants, nitrogen has also been declared a state enemy. It leads to the growth and flowering of nettles and blackberry bushes. Well, that's serious for nature, isn't it? Who doesn't like to pick blackberries here? The whole of nature and environmental policy is seriously overwhelmed, but the whole country may now be back on its feet. The PVV wants to know how this could have gotten this far. Did the minister sleep? Didn't the Minister have any idea that this could be the consequences? What has the government done to protect the Netherlands from this monstrosity? The PVV wants accountability. Mr. Chairman. Not only do our farmers suffer from this miserable regulation. Building permits, the construction of important infrastructure, the setting up of industrial sites, the construction of new buildings, the expansion of Schiphol Airport or the advent of formula 1: it has all become more difficult. What this means for the Netherlands should be clear. It's a huge blow to our economy. It's ruined by left-wing environmental crazies. The PVV only has one word for this: scandalous! How can this country, with all those hard-working entrepreneurs and workers, be held hostage to counter the growth of nettles and blackberry bushes? How crazy did we get here? And how are we supposed to see the maintenance of this war against nitrogen in front of us? Will the farmers be knocked on the door because their cows are in the meadow? Are the cows taken away because they are guilty of fertilizing a piece of whey? Will municipalities that issue a permit for the construction of a shed or a piece of road in such an area be faced with harsh punishments from The Hague? The PVV could laugh about it, if it wasn't so deep and deeply sad. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has already asked written questions about the infrastructure projects that are now in danger. Because instead of worrying about how we're going to tackle the huge growth of traffic jams, we have to stop thinking about how we're going to get a road at all. If we look at a so-called ruse like the one presented at the A50 between Apeldoorn and Arnhem, then we can beat ourselves in the head. Because that is where the driver has to pay the price and is obliged to drive only 100 km/h. The PVV wants to know if the Minister is going to impose this snail rate on more routes. And does she agree with the PVV that it will no longer be possible to build or expand roads, and that it will only lead to more nitrogen in these areas? 'Cause this way, I was just saying, we can all get into traffic together. Mr. Chairman. The PVV also sees that the new situation is not only causing major problems for new projects. On the basis of the PAS, an exemption from the permit requirement was granted for activities below the limit or threshold for which a notification has been made. The ruling states that these values have never been legitimate because the PAS in the assessment was not in line with the Habitats Directive. As a result, all 3,300 activities registered under the exemption are still subject to an authorisation decision. Finally, Mr President. For the PVV it doesn't matter what happens; whether it's a ruse from the minister, a PAS 2.0, an ADC test, nitrogen banks like experts suggest as a solution: the PVV wants tough action by the government against this ruling. Get me an exemption. Ignore it, patch it to your boot. We don't care if there's only one line going through the environmental impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u137	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's firm statement on the Approach Programme Nitrogen has considerable consequences and raises many questions. But first of all, the verdict calls for reflection. The Christian Union is committed to a country where we take good care of the creation that we want to pass on to future generations. We do so from our deepest conviction that we are stewards, that we have been given a land, that care for creation is entrusted to us and that we may live on the interest of creation. Creation gives us enough to live on, enjoy and share. It is not for nothing that the Bible preaches peace with a year of rest, a sabbath year, in which the land and the fields can rest. And after seven times seven years there is then a jubilee, in which there can be a restoration of just relations. That peace is far from being sought in our society. Our system and our morale seem to be stamped by the hunger for ever more. We live on the ecological puff. We produce and consume as if economic growth is an end in itself. As if only our own lives and our own wealth matter. The Minister's call for a fundamental rethink of how we want to deal with the scarce nitrogen space in our country and how we weigh nature in this respect in relation to other social and economic functions, is therefore taken from the heart of my group. How is the cabinet going to shape this fundamental rethink, I ask the ministers. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, we also see the urgent task in the short term. The Council of State's ruling affects all sectors: security, infrastructure, housing, urban development, rural development and also the energy transition. Yesterday, the Minister gave us an initial indication of projects that could get into trouble. Unfortunately, that overview does not provide much clarity. However, it is all too clear that nitrogen space is scarce, so choices have to be made. So there is a threat of scarcity. Good coordination is therefore important in order to avoid creating an imbalance between economic sectors or interests. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is a joint task. We will also have to ask ourselves where it can be less, to create space for the things that are really necessary. Does the Minister agree with the Christian Union that priority areas cannot be identified in the short term as long as the overall picture is not sharp and there is no solution? Does the Minister agree with the Christian Union that it is therefore not obvious to take decisions under the reservation of a solution to the PAS problem? The Minister writes that work is being carried out, inter alia, on the principles of authorisation through an individual appropriate assessment and through a so-called ADC test. How is it prevented that nature eventually becomes the child of the account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u139	Mrs Dik-Faber made an interesting remark. She asked the Minister to sit down and not to take decisions to grant a licence, subject to a solution. As far as she's concerned, does that apply to Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u140	As far as my group is concerned, it is not obvious that decisions are already being taken on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u141	You are aware that this will move the planned opening date backwards? You're aware of that, or are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u142	There's a ruling from the Council of State. That's a far-reaching statement. I repeat my words that, as far as my group is concerned, it is not now obvious to take decisions. First of all, we want to see the full impact of this ruling on all sectors. On the basis of the overall package, we want to achieve an overall balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u143	Glad to hear it from the Christian Union Group. I was wondering, especially in view of the presentation of the Court's report this afternoon, whether it would not be wise to set aside grant schemes for new stables, low-emission stables, even for a moment. We do not yet know whether these investments are part of the government and some of them will make the entrepreneur himself sustainable in the long term. Does the Christian Union agree with the Animal Party that these subsidy schemes should also be placed on a stand-still until we know what the integral picture is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u144	To be honest, I find it rather difficult to answer this question, simply for the simple reason that I was unable to attend the presentation this afternoon and have not yet been able to take note of the report because of all kinds of busy political work. At the same time, I see that subsidies are currently available for new housing systems, which can also lead to emission reductions. That seems to me to be a good thing. But again, I just need to get acquainted with the report and I couldn't be at the presentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u145	I can imagine. Let me summarize it briefly. We are often too optimistic about the emission reduction measures, compared to what they actually do. That was the message from the Court of Auditors to politics. So perhaps it would be good if we just asked these questions to the cabinet and asked how, in the light of, among other things, the Court's report, but especially in the light of this ruling, the cabinet is looking at the desirability of continuing these subsidies now. Because the entrepreneur also invests. Maybe you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u146	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u147	Is Mrs Dik-Faber prepared to put that question to the cabinet with me? We need to be clear whether this is desirable or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u148	Mrs Ouwehand has put a question to the cabinet very handy in an interruption to me. I think the Cabinet will answer that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u149	Mrs Ouwehand was already over her speaking time, but you have not yet, so move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u150	Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's ruling also confirms the importance of source and recovery measures and nitrogen and nature monitoring. What action will this cabinet take and what opportunities does this cabinet see? What contribution can the climate agreement and circular agriculture make to this? Mr. Chairman. This statement also affects our farmers. The Minister is working on a solution to meet the requirements of grazing and fertilising in a pragmatic way. What's the perspective there? How long is the solution to be expected? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I look forward to the answers, and I also wish this cabinet a great deal of wisdom, because I think this is certainly necessary in the complicated situation we are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u151	There is a list of 30 to 40 dikes. That category is indicated in the letter from the cabinet. Is that something that needs to be put on the long track?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u152	I don't think I took the words "sliding on" in my mouth. I said that my group considers it very important to be able to make an overall assessment. Tonight, of course, it is very tempting to say: we think dike safety is important; it has to go first. But if we do that, it means living for the segment, for the infrastructure segment and for our agriculture. So let's not do that, no matter how much temptation there is. I believe that all political parties will then come forward with their own points. I think it is important that we give the Cabinet room now to identify exactly what the consequences are, so that, if we have everything on the table, we can make an overall assessment. We should not take decisions in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u153	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u154	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed a very far-reaching decision that has become ours: the PAS does not appear to be legally sustainable. This calls for an in-depth reflection. In the meantime, the cabinet has put forward proposals for this. I think this is a good start. I think it would be a good idea to recall why this PAS was there and why it was chosen. Not because we were so in favour of it. From the outset, we questioned the legal sustainability of the PAS, but things had to be developed and things were stagnating. At that time, we were looking for ways in which, for the sake of employment and business development, but also for the sake of nature and landscape, we could regain our momentum. Then was chosen for the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. I think this belongs, at least from the conviction of the SGP, to the Biblical notion of taking responsibility and taking the stewardship seriously. This concerns not only the management of nature and the environment and the careful handling of creation, but also the search for a balance for development opportunities for people, for workers and employers, and so on. Following the decision of the Council of State a few short-term points. Almost all permit paths have been shut down, but several projects do not provide an additional deposition with internal and external netting. Those permit applications can be dealt with, I ask the Minister. In any case, the SGP asks the government to urge the provinces to do so. Irrevocable permits would not be under discussion. However, enforcement requests against farms with animals in pasture are now ongoing. Provinces seem to go along with this. Are animals forced into the stables? That is end practice for organic farms and a large part of the land-based farms. It's a wake-up call for dairy farms. Will the cabinet ensure that the provinces suspend this while working on an action plan? It seems to me that there is a need to draw a country-wide line here. It's often about family businesses. Don't put the tie on them out of their hands. All kinds of municipal projects are also under way. Will the rulers ensure that VNG directors are more actively involved in the administrative consultation? This is an explicit question from the VNG. We are happy to put that question to the Minister. Then a few points for the longer term. Twenty years ago, regional ammonia reduction plans were being worked on. Does this instrument possibly offer a perspective, in combination with external netting? It is also crucial to provide rapid space for innovative methods to reduce ammonia emissions in existing stables. Too often these are stuck in bureaucracy. What opportunities does the Minister see for a short-term solution to this problem? Then there are a few points I still can't rhyme with. Mr Timmermans called a while ago for the Netherlands to implement the Habitats Directive unnecessarily strictly. The Court notes that other EU Member States calculate ammonia emissions with much less detail. In Germany, thresholds of 7 moles and above are used. And it's still okay. Natura 2000 starts to growl here when you cause 0.3 mol deposition at a distance of ten kilometers according to the normal distribution of Aerius. That is, we have mentioned this more often, the same amount of nitrogen as there is in one goose cuddle. I would say: Cabinet, go in consultation with Brussels and make sure that we can cut off emissions far away, tackle them through generic policies, and tackle emissions close by through regional reduction plans and individual testing. Set priorities for designation and review. All snippets of nitrogen-sensitive nature are now subject to targets. In fact, in a recently received report one would like to add a spade on top of it. For example, in the Natura 2000 area of Kennemerland-Zuid, an area of 400 m, a patch of 20 meters by 20 meters, has been created nitrogen-sensitive bluegrassland. Now it is only 0.04 hectares, far from a full habitat, but the proposal is to include it in the designation decision. I could also mention other examples, for example a strip of about 100 metres of rugged and hem, with all the consequences of that. Mr. Chairman. This has to be done and this has to be done differently. We must continue to reflect on this soberly and critically and focus the spearheads on it where it has the most effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u155	Thank you. The cabinet has requested a ten-minute suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 10.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u156	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have divided a number of things, although most of the questions lie with me. I will do the whole system around the PAS, where we come from, where we are now, and of course all the questions in the field of agriculture. The Minister of BZK will do the business in the area of the Environment Act and the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State will, of course, do the questions that lie on its premises about infrastructure. On 29 May 2019, the Council of State issued a decision on the Programme Approach to Nitrogen. A number of MPs have already indicated that the aim of the PAS was to balance nature and economy. By making part of the acquired nitrogen deposition available to the economy, the idea was that it would benefit both nature and the economy. The Council of State has considered that this approach is taking too far an advance on the future and that it is not sufficiently established that nature quality does not deteriorate. This is a fundamental statement, which states that nature quality in an area must be in order before new projects can lead to new nitrogen emissions. As a result of the ruling, the PAS can no longer be used as a basis for authorisation. This has immediate consequences for promoters, for example in the areas of infrastructure, housing, agriculture and climate. A number of Members have asked for it, and I would also like to say on behalf of my fellow Members that we think it is very important that the promoters of such projects should be clear quickly. The search for and development of solutions has already begun, but I also say that this is not a simple task. The cabinet doesn't do this alone. We work closely with the provinces. Until recently, we referred to them as the PAS partners. They are the ones who also issue permits. For the long term, we are also working on a new approach to enable authorisation to be granted in accordance with the requirements of the Council of State. Of course, we want clarity as soon as possible, but above all we must also be careful. Carefulness is required so that we will not be in a situation in which people think they can count on something, which may not be the case. I'm going back in time to see where we came from, also legally. Prior to the recent final ruling, several legal steps have been taken. In 2017, the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State gave an interim ruling in some pilot procedures on the PAS. In that procedure, the Council of State asked a number of questions to the European Court of Justice, as the PAS must comply with the European Habitats Directive. In the autumn of 2018, the answer came from Europe. The Court states that a programmed approach is in itself legitimate. However, the Court states that there must be a scientific certainty that the consent decisions based on the programme do not cause damage to nature. Following that ruling, the Council of State reverted to its previous judgment in the interim ruling on the PAS measures that could be involved in the assessment. He has ruled that there is no scientific certainty that there will be no damage to nature. The Council of State says that the positive effects of measures needed to achieve the Natura 2000 targets should not be eliminated from the potential negative effects of new activities. The positive effects of autonomous developments should not be eliminated from the potential negative effects of new activities. This should only be done through further protection measures linked to a programme. At the same time, the measures and their effects must be clearly established at the time of the evaluation of the programme. In these areas, the support of the PAS programme 2015-2021 is not satisfactory. This has implications for future consents. For this purpose, it is no longer possible to rely on the basis of the 2015-2021 programme. The ruling also has implications for existing situations using a non-binding exemption linked to the PAS. We also sometimes call them "the reports." At least 3,300 projects have used the exemptions for low depositions below the limit values, if we look at the number of notifications. These projects are still subject to authorisation. For grazing and fertilising, the exemption has also been declared non-binding. These activities are therefore again subject to authorisation insofar as they can lead to damage to natural values in Natura 2000 sites. Mr. Chairman. In the past week I have heard in a number of places that the Netherlands would be completely locked by this statement. Let me put a nuance to that. Due to the high nitrogen load, it was already under the PAS that there was limited space in certain regions, such as the Veluwe. That was already the existing situation. Nitrogen taxation remains an important criterion for authorisation. However, this does not mean that there is no longer any scope for undertaking activities at all. This can be done on the basis of an individually appropriate assessment if it is demonstrated that a project does not cause an increase in deposition. This can be done by internalising, or, under strict conditions, externally. Internal netting means that measures are taken within a project to address the possible adverse effects. External netting means that the increase in deposition by one project is offset by the decrease in deposition by another project. That's gotta be around there. The decrease in deposition must have the same natural effects as the increase. So that's all kind of tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u158	There is a question from Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u159	Is what the Minister is now explaining also the arrangement that was in force before the PAS was established?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u160	There were also possibilities for the PAS. There was also an individual permit obligation at the time. The exact similarities and differences with the current situation should be fully mapped out. The fact that you are allowed to take with you the fact that you win nitrogen somewhere when you perform an activity, also existed back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u161	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u162	Authorisation may also be granted if it appears that, despite an increase in nitrogen deposition, the natural characteristics of the Natura 2000 site in question are not affected. As we wrote in the letter, certain activities can be authorised on the basis of the so-called ADC test, where the C stands for "compensation measures." In short, if your nitrogen deposition increases, it is always about whether you can salt it within the project, or under strict conditions outside the project. You can then make up for it in that place, or take compensatory measures that eliminate that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u163	I am concerned that the Minister does not first say: what a terrible thing, the quality of nature is not at all in order and we must protect nature. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is part of the law intended to protect nature. The Minister immediately moves to: how can we grant permits again? I would very much like to ask her what her guidance will be. How is she going to ensure that the government will comply better with its own law and that we are not dependent on small nature organisations that have to collect a lot of time and human power to challenge government permits? I don't think it should work that way. I think the government needs to stick to its own law much better. Can the Minister say anything about that? Because I don't think that that approach with internal or external netting or the ADC test can just pass the judge's test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u164	I have already indicated that I wanted to outline first what we also stated in the letter; to clarify that. I'll be right on the block of nature. For let me be clear, the judge has said: you must deal better with your nature and nitrogen is an important part of that. Of course, we are following the judge's ruling; that is not to be challenged. The judge has spoken and we must act accordingly. I wanted to respond to the comments that everything is now completely quieting at once. I wanted to show that there are also opportunities to bring down a certain nitrogen deposition with a project. So it doesn't mean that we can't do it anymore, but you have to be able to demonstrate very clearly that it is going to improve the nitrogen deposition. That is in favour of nature. I therefore agree with Mrs Ouwehand that the values of nature are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u165	Perhaps then we can agree on something of an ambition or an objective. Before the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen came into force, I believe that half of the permits were challenged by nature organisations and they were right. I do not think that this is a very good score for a government, which is supposed to comply with its own laws. If half of what you do stranded in court again, we could agree that the guiding principle is that it only happens in 5% of the cases. So really do your homework substantially better before you issue a permit, so that in this democratic rule of law we are not dependent on citizens who go to court to have what the government has done checked by the judge, with constant negative judgments. That shouldn't be the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u166	If permits are granted, we are really looking at what can be done within the legal framework. Everyone is always free to go to court and apply for a final test. I can't rule out the possibility that that would lead to a different weighting for the judge. But the suggestion that the government is consciously operating on the edge of all kinds of laws or regulations or going over them, I'm not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u167	A very brief word and then I will give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions of the Chamber further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I understand you can't prevent that. It is good that you can always go to court, but the government has a very bad track record. I would like to hear the Minister say here: we did not do that well. We're gonna set up the permits so we can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u169	The licence was granted on the basis of the Programmetic Approach Nitrogen, which set out a framework within which the licence could be issued. The Council of State, and thus the judge, has made a fundamental ruling on whether the way in which such a system is operated can be used. They say that you cannot anticipate recovery, but that you must realize it immediately, or that you must have done so before the permit can be granted. That does not mean that those who issued the licences at that time were deliberately violating things. They did so within the framework which was then established with the agreement of that Chamber. The Council of State's ruling makes it clear that these licences on parts are not sustainable. But the idea that the government may knowingly grant bad permits is far from my point of view. I know the people who are doing this a little bit, not all of them, but some of them, and they do so in good conscience and also within the framework of how they think they can explain the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u170	Before you continue, I would like to agree with the Chamber that we are doing four interruptions. We have three rulers, so normally we do three, but if there's anything very urgent, we can meet up to find a small space in it. Then we'll do four interruptions just to keep an overview. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u171	Mr. Chairman. I've got a few cubes. I think the Chamber always likes that. I think it is also good for the clarity of the debate. Questions have been asked about nature. I'm gonna answer that first. Then I come to the short-term approach. What does it mean in the short term for projects or permit applications? Then I come to the medium term, to the future, to the organisation of the approach and then to a number of other questions. Mr. Chairman. With regard to nature, Mr Weverling asked a number of questions. He asked if you could handle that. Mrs Bromet asked for Mr Weverling's contribution: less natural areas, is that the solution? She answered that herself, but I think she wanted to hear that answer from me too. I'm going to take some time to take Mr Weverling's reasoning line as well. He states that there would be room for the determination of the goals and the actualisation of the target document. That space is only available on ecological grounds. If in a given area there is an animal that is safe and the ecological conditions in the area where the animal lives are so less favourable to the presence of the animal, then you can say to the European Commission that the conditions in that area are becoming less favourable. That would perhaps be a reason not to designate that area for that animal, because at some point that is no longer sustainable for the beast that lives there. Then the Commission will say: where do you think that can be done? I say this in order to indicate that economic grounds are not grounds for deviating from such areas. Those objectives should be achieved for all habitats and species of European interest present in a Natura 2000 site. That's what happens in the designation decisions. These designation decisions must at least ensure conservation, but in many areas the poor conservation condition also requires recovery. When investing those recovery objectives in areas, it is possible to identify the area in which recovery can best be achieved, also taking into account the functions in and around those areas. The pace of recovery can also be prioritised on the basis of what is feasible and affordable. That's what happens in the management plans. Like I said, the removal of targets can't just happen. This can only be done on these ecological grounds, if an area is designated for a particular species, a particular animal, which is no longer viable there because of factors unrelated to human action. That is a crucial element. There must have been proper management. As has been said, this can only be done in consultation with the European Commission. This will often mean that other areas will have to be designated to meet this European challenge. Generally speaking, a favourable conservation status should be achieved at national level. In other words, is there a lot of room there to create space for the PAS in its adaptation? I hardly see it, very limited, and only if it is on ecological grounds. It cannot therefore be done for economic reasons. Mr Weverling also asked whether the space already appointed by legal experts at the fitness check, such as rewording the designation decisions, would also be used. The ongoing updating of the Natura 2000 target document will re-examine the species and habitats to be protected under the Birds and Habitats Directives and their objectives. Given the state of nature, recovery objectives will often also apply. I just turned that in. We often have to recover as well. Would there be room, then it will be looked at. But I will stress it once again: are you not going to count on it, because if it is already there, then it is very often mainly on the basis of ecological considerations. Mr Weverling also asked about the target document following a motion by the SGP and the CDA. He asks if I can promise that the actualization will take place this autumn. Work is currently under way on an overarching global advice for this update. Your Chamber will be informed of this at the end of this year. The opinion then looks at the impact of this opinion in the areas concerned. Mr Weverling also asked whether the scope of the European Convention on the Functioning of the European Union could still be considered, with a Member State taking into account environmental conditions in its region. That space has been worked out in the Habitats Directive. We have to abide by the frameworks laid down in that directive, but that does not mean that we are not talking to the European Commission. We are almost always in talks with the European Commission on these matters: what exactly do these frameworks mean or not, and how should we define and interpret them? Mr Weverling also asked whether there was any possibility of discussing the directive with the European Commission. Let me say first of all that I am going to talk to the European Commission about the situation now and what it means for the Netherlands. But again, don't have too many high expectations of that. We have had these contacts frequently and for a long time. Let me give you an example. In 2009, the then President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, already drew attention to the strict precautionary principle of the Habitats Directive. That didn't lead to anything back then. For the Commission, it is a matter of great pressure on nature in the Netherlands, and we have also agreed on biodiversity objectives. The Commission also points out that in the past major projects have always been possible, but that they must be compensated. Recently we have had the fitness check of the Birds and Habitats Directive, in 2015-2016. At that time, the Netherlands also advocated greater flexibility, but after research in several Member States including the Netherlands, the Commission's overall conclusion was that the Directive was fit for purpose. In other words, there was no reason to change that. In short, yes, we are talking to the Commission. We're actually having that conversation right now. That's some kind of continuous conversation. But don't expect too much of that. I really want to emphasise that. Mr Weverling also asked whether we were not going to identify new Natura 2000 sites and add additional species until further notice. From now on, we will no longer identify new Natura 2000 sites. There are still a number of them; they have already been submitted. That is also necessary because we have been summoned by the Commission to do so. However, let me put it this way: the coming period, when we are also working to map everything well and that sort of thing, I do not intend to identify new Natura 2000 sites other than those for which I have already made a reference in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u172	I would like to continue with this for a moment in order to clarify this. I have just read on the LNV website that 160 of the 162 Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands have now been definitively designated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u173	I have to check the exact number for a moment, but a large part has already been identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u174	Approach: of the Natura 2000 sites there are almost no more which have not already been definitively established.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u175	There's still something going on. We just signed up Polder Stein.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u176	I'm listening to the Minister. It all sounds very plausible and she is, I think, very nice to Mr Weverling about the questions he has asked, but is it true that she actually says: Mr Weverling, what you are proposing, simply cannot; we must stick to the agreed goals and we must let nature lead in this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u177	I have indicated to Mr Weverling that there are great limitations on what he is proposing, that it could be on ecological grounds, but not on economic grounds, and that I am talking to the Commission. That's what I'm actually doing right now, but he shouldn't have too high expectations for that. Mr Weverling also asked if I could provide an overview of the current state of the 118 nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites, indicating whether they are specifically qualified for these nitrogen-sensitive habitat types. This summer, the National Monitoring Report Nature comes out. It describes the current state of Natura2000 sites, including 118 nitrogen-sensitive areas. It also states whether these 118 areas qualify for nitrogen-sensitive habitats or species. The measures applicable to which areas will be assessed. This also depends on the current quality of nature. Mr Weverling also asked whether a designation decision could be re-evaluated. Yes, as has been said, this can be done on ecological grounds, for example, if an area is no longer the most suitable habitat for a particular bird or species, but it will also have to look at another area that can be designated to meet that objective. Again, that's really an exception. It is not self-evident that this will happen just like that. I think I have answered Mr Weverling's natural questions, but other Members have of course also asked a lot of nature questions, so I am going to answer them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u178	I'm having second thoughts. Of course, we consider economic development to be very important, but I am well aware that these designation decisions are made on ecological grounds. You do not completely close the door, but I would like some clarification on the possibilities of shifting the accent for those qualifying species. I believe that this could be done from the designation decisions to the management plans. In my opinion, the evaluation of that target document, which has actually started a lot of work this week, is the time to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u179	This week, at the request of the VVD Group, I sent reports to the Chamber which provide input for the evaluation of the route we are currently in. If you read those documents, you will see that it states precisely that we in the Netherlands need to be quite focused on what we are doing to achieve the objectives of the directives. In other words, that doesn't necessarily offer space. I would almost say, quite the contrary. We're going through that trajectory right now, that's right. I feel Mr Weverling's search for possibilities to make room for the PAS dossier on the nature file. Then I really want to tell him: there is virtually no space, other than that, for example, you can change things on ecological grounds. But we have certain species that we need to protect. At a time when such a species is somewhere, we must indicate how we deal with it. We will then go to the European Commission and say: that species is in that area; you could then point that out. In the other area it also happens, maybe that's the area where you have to do it. The European Commission concludes: that is the area to be designated. The suggestion that there would be a lot of space in that file I really want to take away. Nor would I find that fair to the people who are seeking a solution in this area and think that much can still be done there. I think we need to clarify this now too. I've explained what's going on. We are in the process of taking the steps that we have already had to take for what you call the evaluation. He's coming to the room. But once again, on the basis of the reports I sent to the Chamber, you can conclude that there is not much room for manoeuvre. On the contrary, it's going the other way now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u180	Clear. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u181	What matters to me is that I feel that we are legally binding on each other in those designation decisions. At least that they are subject to legal review by all kinds of parties. At the moment when matters from those designation decisions can land in the management plans, this gives more interpretation and flexibility to adapt to the situation, because species are added or leaving. It gives us greater flexibility when they land in the management plans rather than in the designation decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u182	That implies the suggestion that we can decide for ourselves. These are procedures that we simply have to go through. Even if a particular species is identified that is protective, we must indicate how we deal with it. Those are the rules we have with each other. Once again, I have indicated that attempts have been made to achieve some flexibility in this area, but so far nothing has been achieved. So yes, I will start to understand this with the Commission, to see what is possible. But I'm not gonna bake sweet sandwiches here right now, 'cause I don't see them yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u183	Finally, Mr Weverling, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u184	What matters to me is that Europe does not impose a blueprint of what a designation decision should look like. The point is that the Birds and Habitats Directives are actually the basis for the Natura 2000 policy. Whether you put something in the designation decisions or in the management plans is up to a Member State itself. This also depends on all kinds of things by region. I think that's where space is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u185	Thank you. That wasn't very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u186	I just thought this was a good time to include that in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u187	I'd take such an idea, but that doesn't mean it leads to another outcome. I would like to warn Mr Weverling about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u188	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u189	Mr. Chairman. I skipped Mrs Bromet a little bit. Sorry. She had, of course, asked the first question: what are we going to do to restore the diversity of species in nature? In order to grow and maintain the diversity of species, we continue to pursue the recovery measures in the nature reserves and the source measures to reduce the nitrogen deposition. The suggestion might be that, now that the PAS is no longer present, we no longer need to work on the source and recovery measures. I have agreed with the provinces that we will continue to do so, precisely to ensure that we can implement the measures to reduce nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u190	"Source measures," that sounds like music to me. I have heard a lot about legal measures so far, but will there be a list of possible source measures to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u191	The source measures, of course, touch exactly on the discussion we are having about the possibilities of reducing nitrogen in a project. In other words, if you reduce nitrogen, then a project can continue. This can be done in the case of a source measure, and that is also something we are investigating in the context of the future of... I was gonna say "the PAS," but I'm looking for a little. Perhaps it is best to say: reducing nitrogen emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u192	Mrs. Bromet, no more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u193	I hope that the Minister will give a positive opinion on the proposals we are going to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u194	I do not yet know what proposals they are, and that is what I have to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u195	This is actually also the light of day, namely that we will continue with the recovery measures, including the budget we have devised with each other for the period up to 2021. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u196	I have agreed with the provinces that we will continue the path we had. The exact funding and so on are still being discussed, but it is our intention to continue these recovery measures. You just have to continue to reduce nitrogen or at least restore a deposition, otherwise you're sure you're going to get in a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u197	However, I would like to say a few words about the recovery measures. We're all for it, because they're good. However, I believe that the reality at the moment is that recovery measures sometimes have to be re-implemented after a while, because there is so much nitrogen that it needs to be restored. That's how we keep going. So I'm always a bit reluctant with a large-scale commitment to recovery measures if we don't also tackle the source somewhere, because then you're mopping it with the tap open. And that all costs quite a lot of money, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u198	I mentioned two things: source measures and recovery measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u199	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u200	Okay. Mr De Groot had a list of five points which he saw as opportunities to move forward in this discussion. Before that he asked a more fundamental question, namely how our nature actually stands. And do we know what a good conservation state is? To begin with, which is a favourable conservation status, the Habitats Directive defines it. For example, it is a requirement that the range of habitats or species is stable and that long-term conservation is ensured by the presence of appropriate ecological structures and functions. In the designation decisions for Natura 2000 sites, we determine the contributions to be made separately. These are the conservation objectives. The state of nature. The technical answer is that this summer the National Monitoring Report Nature comes out. It sets out the most current status of Natura 2000 sites and what measures apply. Which area will have to be assessed? This also depends on the current quality of nature. I note, however, that in its statement the Council of State says: the quality of nature is not at such a level that you can allow the nitrogen deposition to continue in this way. There will therefore really have to be immediate measures to mitigate this and to eliminate it. On this basis, I conclude that we still have steps to take. Then I come to the first solution direction in Mr De Groot's list. I'll put the other one on the other as far as they're not with the colleagues. Do we have a view of the nitrogen load from the different sources? Where did all this nitrogen come from? The nitrogen load shall be recorded annually in the nitrogen monitoring. This tax consists of part agriculture and part abroad. We should not forget that part abroad, because part of the nitrogen tax in the Netherlands comes from abroad or is caused abroad. We also have a contribution from households, shipping, industry, traffic, road traffic. So, yeah, basically anything that releases nitrogen. But there is therefore an overview of the annual nitrogen monitoring. That's where you can find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u201	It would be nice if the minister would just show that order of magnitude here. That's what I asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u202	I have an overview here that's with my play. Maybe I can spread that out for a little while. Then everybody's right. Otherwise, I will have to list all the percentages, which I think is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u203	I'll ask the messenger to take it from you so that the summary can be distributed in copy. Mrs. Bromet, your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u204	Yeah, but I didn't do them all in half, so I guess...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u205	I'm just counting the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u206	I have a very short question. Agriculture, is that 45% on the monitor? Or is it a different number?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u207	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u208	45% of nitrogen comes from agriculture. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u209	Then Mr Geurts also asked a question about SMEs. Excuse me, I'll take it in the next block. Mrs Dik-Faber asks more in principle how we prevent nature from becoming the child of the account. That is what she calls it and she specifically links it to the ADC key. The ADC test is for closely defined cases. These must be projects which have a high public interest and for which there are no real alternatives. But the C-I mentioned it already stands for "compensation." There must be adequate natural compensation, which also ensures that the European Natura 2000 network is not affected in its coherence. So nature must not become the child of the account. We can't do that in the ADC test either. So that's an integral part of that ADC test, which guarantees that. Mr Bishop asks: how is it that Commissioner Timmermans called for the Netherlands to implement the Habitats Directive unnecessarily strictly? It would also be a question of national headlines, if any. Are we going to put a national face on it? I would like to point out that the Netherlands has twice been condemned by the European Court for failing to implement the directives. Once for the designation of too few Birds Directive sites, and once for insufficient legal protection of Natura 2000 sites. Later too, under pressure from threatening procedures, the Netherlands had to revise legislation or policies and re-advocate Natura 2000 sites for selection. In the explanatory memorandum accompanying the recent Nature Protection Act, this has also been discussed in more detail. The point of the national headlines, which we are particularly strict on, has been the subject of regular research. It has already been mentioned: the Trojan Task Force in 2008 and the Huys Advisory Committee have already found that there was no such issue in the context of the nitrogen problem. Two reports were also prepared in 2011 at the request of the Court, the Natura 2000 report in the Netherlands - Legal space, nature objectives and management planning processes, and the report Nitrogen deposition in Natura 2000 - A comparative legal study. Both reports show that there are no national headlines in the legislation and that the Netherlands is certainly not at the forefront in Europe when it comes to the quality and share of the surface of nature. In 2011, the then Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation, that was my predecessor, Mr Bleker, sent a further analysis to the Chamber with a number of points in implementation that could still offer a limited space. Those points have been implemented. The then Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Mrs Dijksma, also explained that the Netherlands has no national headlines. As I understand it, she explained this to Commissioner Timmersmans, and he understood that correctly at that time. That is therefore a fairly complete implementation of all the reports and investigations that have been carried out. Mr. Chairman. These were the last answers to the questions about nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u210	I think the Minister should acknowledge more clearly that the nitrogen depositions really need to be substantially reduced quickly. They really need to go down. It sounds good when she says: we must continue with source measures and recovery measures. But what are these source measures going to look like? I was incredibly surprised that the Minister, when presenting her circular vision, after this statement was already known, was still saying: well, shrinking livestock is not an end in itself. And we just heard that 45% comes from agriculture. The Minister confirms that. So what are these source measures gonna look like? What's the Minister thinking? Does she recognise that it needs to be done quickly and that a significant reduction in nitrogen deposition is needed? And does she recognize that shrinkage of livestock is really the first obvious thing to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u211	This is exactly the exercise we're doing right now. We are mapping out which projects are all affected by this ruling and where it has consequences. We have to do this very carefully. I understand the wish of the Chamber to get a list of what is in it and how we deal with it very quickly. But I have said before: I wish that we are now very careful about this, also towards those who concern it. If we have that list, we're also going to look at the possibilities of reducing that nitrogen deposition. There are a lot of options for that. That is exactly what the choices and the weighting we need to make are about. But I think it is premature to anticipate that now. That's exactly the exercise we set in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u212	But it's really not going well. The Minister now says: give us some time, because we still have to think about what source measures we should take. In doing so, she really ignores the recognition I am asking for here, namely that the nitrogen deposition must go down quickly and sharply, if we are to have a chance at all. Is that gonna be the guide or not? I am not reassured by a minister who keeps saying in her pocket with this statement by the Council of State: shrinking livestock is not an end in itself. She could have said: well, we should probably go there, because you have also read the statement of the Council of State. So I'm not comfortable with that. What will be the Minister's starting point? Is that going to be a big reduction, or just a little bit of muddying on the road that's already dead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u213	I've indicated exactly the start of the exercise. We're going to map out exactly what the situation is, and then what options there are to bring down the nitrogen deposition if you want to do certain projects. And I know what Mrs Ouwehand is thinking about that. I'll take note of that. I've heard all kinds of other options coming through here tonight. We all hear it, but this is exactly the exercise we're going to do. I'm not getting ahead of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u214	I appreciate the peace and calm of the Minister, and also the calm and controlled way in which she made it clear to Mr Weverling that he had walked down a dead end with an illusion. I appreciate that very much. But I do miss some sense of urgency on the other hand. A lot of projects have now stopped in this country. I referred to these investments in the Eemshaven, but they are also housing projects and roads need to be built. In a very limited number of cases, an ADC test will be an alternative, but for the rest, we still need source and recovery measures. Why isn't that rushed? Why has the current situation not been anticipated in recent months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u215	If we could have turned back the time and knew everything in advance, and we had known that this PAS-systematic would not last, we might not have introduced it. I note, however, that a number of Members have said here that this was something that was also widely accepted in the Chamber as a possible system. So I guess we're all in this together. It is not that we can now point to one person who does not show sufficient urgency or that we could have prevented all of this. It is true, there are two parties who have not voted in favour of the system. The urgency is felt. The urgency is that we here every day, not us physically but our people, are very hard at work, together with the provinces again, this is not just something from the Empire to get a good picture of everything, also to know what steps we all have to take. I note that Mr Moorlag says that things should be different and better; 'you could have seen it all coming'. I find that a little easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u216	The Minister misses the point I'm making. The ruling of the European Court of Justice makes it clear. At least you could've felt some wetness, right? Governing is forward-looking. Isn't that where you can develop different scenarios? If there's nothing going on, we don't have to do anything. But if this is a statement that silences things, you should have developed a scenario for it by now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u217	There is a lot of work going on and scenarios have also been developed. But that doesn't mean that you immediately know what the pronunciation is and that you immediately mapped everything out. That's an exercise we're doing right now. We do so with great urgency but also with great care. Again, that does not only play with us but also with the provinces. They are also subject to authorisation in many cases. Sometimes they just have to look at each case "how far are we in the licensing process?', "How's that going?', "What does that mean?" That is not always easy and we want to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u218	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u219	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I do appreciate receiving a list of activities carried out following the ruling of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u220	That suggests that we haven't done anything at all. I'm not gonna do that. There's a lot of work going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u221	It's a wonderful schedule from the minister. If we look at road traffic, industry and living, does the Minister agree with the PVV that it actually has a limited impact on nitrogen emissions if we lock it all down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u222	Mr Van Aalst is now using the schedule that I have had distributed of which activities...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u223	Yes, you can see the small numbers for road traffic and households, which are then hit hard by wiping the PAS off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u224	And that is why we are now looking at the possibilities of doing it in such a way that housing permits can be issued again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u225	May I make the Minister a proposal? Would it be an idea to close the borders for nitrogen from abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u226	I'm really trying to figure out how to put a fence in the middle of the air to stop the nitrogen. If Mr Van Aalst has any ideas on this, then I am recommended. Stopping nitrogen at the border... I know the PVV is in favour of closing the borders, but let him explain how he thinks he can do this. If he has a serious suggestion for that, I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u227	I think I remember that we emit more nitrogen across the border than we get, so if we build the virtual wall that the PVV wants, then we are ultimately worse off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u228	Then I also have to make the nuance that it's up to which province you're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u229	Mr Futselaar says something about Brabant, but we have not heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u230	Those are the words of Mr Futselaar. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second block, which we have already reached: the question of what we are going to do in the short term and the specific questions. I have just indicated in general how we are doing now. We explained this in the letter. Mr Weverling asks when the authorisation can actually be resumed. As the Empire and provinces, a few days before the decision of the Council of State, we decided to temporarily suspend the granting of permission under the PAS. The new authorisation will have to be given in a different way, and the PAS will no longer be able to be used. So now we're going to look at the possibilities that there are to do that. We have also indicated that this can be done, for example, with internal salading, external salading and also with an ADC-key. But that's also something we need to coordinate administratively. These are things you don't do alone. You will see them with provinces, but also with municipalities and water boards. We hope to have that overview of where all the possibilities and opportunities are, just after the summer. Mr Weverling asks if I am prepared to announce a decision to tolerate it, so that a permit can be applied for and entrepreneurs do not have to deal with enforcement and ultimately have to deal with a penalty payment. What's that entrepreneur supposed to do if he's illegal? The situation will be dealt with in a sensible manner. The starting point is that the activities that were legal until the ruling........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As has been said, this can be done by granting licences and perhaps for certain categories and cases by looking at possibilities for exceptions. I'll say that with caution. About the way we're going to do that, we'll inform you as soon as possible, right after the summer. In the light of the desire to legalise a situation, it is not appropriate to proceed to active enforcement in the meantime. Mr Weverling asks what I am going to do with requests for compensation. The decision of the Council of State states that the exemption from a licence requirement for activities below the limit value and for grazing and fertilising was unlawful. The extent to which the parties concerned are harmed by this remains to be seen. As I have said, the policy will focus as much as possible on the legalisation of projects already carried out so that this damage is prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u231	I'm just trying to get a little more explanation when suspending enforcement. Does this have to do with agreements you make with the other PAS partners, say the provinces, or can you yourself announce that there will be no enforcement on x-term and are therefore not at risk for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u232	This is one of the subjects that I will discuss tomorrow in the administrative consultation with the local authorities, i.e. with provinces, but the starting point for us is that we will not actively maintain what we want to legalize. I have yet to formally establish with them that this is the line. I have that administrative meeting tomorrow, but after we have made the arrangements, I will inform you in the letter about how we deal with it. You know our commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u233	I appreciate that commitment. I assume you understand that all kinds of people are going to submit enforcement requests precisely because of this ruling from the Council of State. So that clarity is really very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u234	Sure. I have indicated that I will discuss this with the partners in the administrative consultation tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u235	I agree with Mr Weverling's point that we should not really distinguish between parts of the country, but I also think that in a broader sense: how we deal with licensing or not. It is useful if legal certainty in Groningen is the same as in Zeeland and as a provincial government, even though that is a competent authority, cannot deviate radically. How does the Minister see this? We have a national crisis, which may well be tackled in 12 different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u236	Those parties are present in the administrative consultations. Technically speaking, I have to say that, because a question from Mr Geurts on this matter also involves municipalities and the Union of Water Councils. Technically, they weren't a PAS partner yet. Officially, they won't be at the board meeting tomorrow. I am getting ahead of it, because I have not had the administrative consultation, but the proposal is therefore to allow them to participate in that administrative consultation. We want clear agreements with them on this point. I agree with you that we should not get differences in parts of the country. That is why I have to discuss this in the administrative consultation, in which it is covered nationwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u237	Mr. Funtselaar? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u238	Then I come to Mr De Groot, who asks us to identify where we are at risk. I'm just gonna call it the bottleneck list. In the letter we indicated that a large number of projects were affected by the ruling. It is not just a question of national projects; by far the majority of projects are carried out by provinces, municipalities and water authorities. I admit that I am sending a letter to the Chamber in the summer containing an overview of the relevant empire projects. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will add an overview of the housing projects. It will not yet have exactly the impact per project. This impact varies from project to project. It can be large, if a project does not proceed at all, but there can also be a project that is slightly out of schedule, for example because further research is needed. Of course, this varies from one project to another. We can give such a list at a rich level in the summer. However, this is a much more precise task for the provinces, municipalities and water boards. That's gonna take a little more time there, too. Mrs Ouwehand asks whether the irrevocable licences are also irrevocable. She says that a question was referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. Let me first say that the Council of State has indicated that some of the authorisations against which an appeal has been lodged or which have not yet been definitively established still have to be decided. The Council of State has yet to give a ruling on this, but it has indicated where a licence requirement will still be required, for example in the case of notifications or in the case of new licence applications. On 30 January 2019, the Council of State referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling a question on the sustainability of irrevocable decisions contrary to European law. The Council of State has doubts as to whether they can be maintained. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that the PAS ruling states that irrevocable consent decisions remain in force. That's what we're holding onto right now. We are not now going to speculate about possible future judgements by the European judge on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. We take the view that the Council of State has now adopted on the PAS. Mrs Ouwehand also asks how the General Court can today produce the results on manure policy. I don't think there's any higher math behind that. The General Court of Auditors has been developing the report for a long time and has come out with it today. The main conclusion of the Court is that emissions need to be reduced. That is, of course, also the portrait of the ruling of the Council of State. This week I presented our implementation plan, in which I indicate, among other things, where you could do that in the field of agriculture. We are also reviewing manure legislation, as Mrs Ouwehand knows. Mr Futselaar asks if I can give an expectation for the solution of grazing. As I have already pointed out, I have an administrative consultation tomorrow, the starting point of which is that pasture should remain possible. In this context, we are also going to look at the issue of enforcement. I will inform the Chamber exactly how we are going to do that, so that dairy farmers and those who feed know where they stand. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked this, so I also answered her question. Mr Futselaar asks whether we can do anything to prevent poignant cases. He mentioned a situation in which a farmer had been bought out, while he had not yet been granted his new farm. This is a typical example of a poignant case. I am now working with the authorities concerned on an approach to respond to the ruling of the Council of State. So we are also going to look at cases of this kind with the provinces and the municipalities. How do you deal with that? However, it is rather difficult to say in advance whether or not something is working. In any case, this is one of the cases, one of the subjects that will also be discussed in that consultation. Mr Geurts asked about the notifications which were not subject to authorisation and which are now subject to authorization. As far as we can see, 3,300 reports have been made, and these are mainly agricultural activities with a small nitrogen contribution to Natura 2000 sites, for example, a larger extension of a Natura 2000 site but where a small part of it is affected. As has already been said, we need a permit for this, but we are going to see how we can deal with it. He also asks whether I agree with the commitment that the agricultural sector should also be rewarded for efforts to reduce nitrogen deposition. He specifically asks about the possibility of salading. A reduction in emissions achieved by agriculture can certainly help to grant permits. The space created can also be used for expansions in the case of internal netting. There are also options of external netting. This can also lead to new developments in the sector. We are all going to work out these possibilities. Mr Moorlag is asking for progress. We've already talked about it in the interruption. The urgency is felt. Mr Van Aalst asks how it could have come to this, a more fundamental question. He's asking if we couldn't have foreseen it. Yeah, could we have foreseen it all? Here in the Chamber has been a long discussion about establishing the PAS. I think it's taken about six years to work it out in the end. There has also been an amendment by Mr Samsom and Mr Koopmans in the handling of the Crisis and Recovery Act. It was a follow-up to the opinions of the Task Force-Trojan and the Huys Committee. It was clear that there was a new and unproven approach in relation to the Habitats Directive. That was exchanged in the debate at the time. You know more about that. Some of you were there, not me. There were risks, too. This is why, at the time, information was requested from the Advisory Section of the Council of State on the implementation of the approach. The subsequent amendments to the legislation were also submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. This has not led to a different approach than was taken at the time. In the ruling, the Administrative Court section states in its referral to the European Court that the way in which the PAS measures are involved in the impact assessment can in principle be done, but that it is also about timeliness: when do you realize these measures now? They say, "We can't anticipate that." The Council of State also states that, on the basis of the Court's rulings, it has come to this kind of understanding in conjunction with other case-law of the Court. There is also a moving insight in this; let me call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u239	That is why I asked the Minister the question. It's kind of special. At the time of entering the PAS, we submitted it to the Council of State. At that time, he advised us positively, at least not to say that you should not do so. Now the same Council of State says: get rid of it! I like the fact that the Council of State is coming to a progressive conclusion, but it is now, of course, having enormous consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u240	I'm not a member of the Council of State. The Council of State has its own competence and can give its own insights. There is also a difference between the Advisory Section and the Administrative Department. These are two different sectors. At the time, the Advisory Section indicated that there were risks, but this did not lead to any other treatment or choice in this Chamber. In the meantime, there has also been more case law that has now been taken back by the Administrative Department. That is the actual situation. I can't speak for the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u241	No, but I'm trying to understand exactly what happened. Is this because the European Court of Justice has delivered rulings? Has the Council of State allowed itself to be influenced by this? Or did he look at the Dutch legislation on his own initiative and reject it on that basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u242	The Council of State shall review all relevant legislation. That is Dutch, but also European legislation and regulations. The European Court has ruled. The Council of State has, of course, looked at this, because it is relevant, as is case law in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u243	Finally, I note that the European factor has indeed been decisive. That's too bad. So much for our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u244	I know that Mr Van Aalst always likes to look at what Europe does. I note that the court must base itself on existing laws and regulations. That is how we organized it in our country, and I think that is very good. Mr Van Aalst also asked how we should see enforcement in front of us. As indicated, I will discuss this further tomorrow in the administrative consultation. I'll inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u245	On this point, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u246	I have a very short question. What happens if we don't do something? Suppose we just continue on the road we've taken, what happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u247	What if we were to issue permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u248	We have, of course, already had a lot of reports, namely the 3,300. If we just don't do anything now and just keep going, are we gonna be faulted? How are we supposed to imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u249	An enforcement request may then be made. Then the competent authority must be maintained. If the competent authority does not, or does not, do so to the taste of the applicant, one can go to court. The judge will then judge whether that lasts or not. The Council of State has now indicated that it should be subject to authorisation in this case. What happens if you don't follow the rules of the judge? Well, you can also create all kinds of performances. It is remarkable that legislators are actually looking for ways not to follow the law. Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether we can quickly clarify the consent and the notifications. We're working hard to make that clear. Mr Bishop asked whether licence applications could simply be dealt with. It is true that authorisation is still possible, but this should prevent deposition increases. This can be done either internally or externally. By the way, this line is known to the provinces. They are well aware of this. I've already indicated how we deal with animals in the meadow. Mr Bisschop also asked about the model of regional ammonia reduction plans from the 1990s. That approach was linked at the time to the granting of environmental permits to agricultural holdings under the Interim Act on ammonia and livestock farming, if I am correct. I say that with a blow under the arm. At that time, the problem of nitrogen and ammonia was also an issue. That wasn't new. This regional approach was also a form of balancing at field level. Increased deposition by a holding in an area sensitive to acidification could be offset by a reduction in deposition in that area by other holdings. This is a bit like the external netting that can be applied to Natura 2000 permits. Now external netting is possible under strict conditions. This also includes the condition that the netting should involve depositions on the same Natura 2000 site and the same locations within that area, originating from nearby holdings. Such options should all be included in the search for solutions. I'll inform you about that. Mr. Chairman. That was the short-term block. Can I get through?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u250	Mr Bishop has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u251	Perhaps it comes to the longer or medium term, but I had asked a subsequent question about the space that can be offered for innovative methods to reduce ammonia emissions, including in existing stables. Or is that gonna come up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u252	That's the medium-term block. The transition for innovative methods will also be part of the discussion on how to deal with issues such as prioritisation and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u253	I was just thinking about the Minister's words. She's moving to another block, so that's why I'm coming with you right now. At the moment farmers approach me and us who feel a little hopeless, because they feel they are doing something that is not allowed by law. That feeling is reinforced by the discussion we are having here tonight. How does the Minister deal with that? There's a situation right now that really can't be. I hear there are enforcement requests from the county, municipalities and wherever that can be done. How do we deal with this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u254	What I have just indicated is that it is my intention to legalise and clarify what is now illegal. This applies, for example, to grazing and fertilising, but also to reports. That's what I have to do in consultation with the county and municipalities. That is what we are talking about in the administrative consultation. It is true that we need to clarify this as soon as possible to the entrepreneurs concerned, because I can well imagine that they are now in uncertainty. The enforcement aspect will also be addressed. How do you deal with that in the light of the fact that you want to legalize those cases? So you're gonna stick to that now? I really need to have the talks on this point with the county first. We'll do that tomorrow, and I'll inform your Chamber about that too. That will also be part of the communication. Then I come to the medium-term block. Mrs Bromet asked the question: do we dare to prioritize? Do we dare to make choices? That was actually her fundamental question. Because of the demands of the Council of State, either the fact that the Council of State has said that it cannot do so and that we will have to think of something else, it will also have to be considered which projects are the most priority. That's true. We will, of course, also look at issues that affect physical safety, for example. These matters are equally urgent. But we're going to look at the exact prioritisation. This may have to lead to choices, but we are going to go through that process carefully with each other. We will also inform you about this. Mr De Groot asked whether the nitrogen gain of the climate agreement could be mapped out so that we know what that would mean. In the summer period, I will have a quick scan of the possible additional measures to reduce the burden on nature. The climate agreement measures are also assessed on their contribution to the reduction of nitrogen taxation. Mr De Groot also asked about the cabinet's priority. Again, we are going to make that very clear. Mr De Groot also asked whether we could inventory where nitrogen emissions could be reduced in the short term and at what cost. Measures to reduce nitrogen emissions have already been identified in the PAS in the sectors of industry, transport and agriculture. It also looked at cost-effectiveness. A quick scan will also be carried out during the summer period. This concerns the actualisation of measures and the calculation of impacts on Natura 2000 sites, including the climate agreement. Mr Geurts asks whether we agree that there should be a joint solution for all economic activities, and whether provinces and municipalities will be involved. I can certainly confirm that. Provinces and municipalities are simply partners in the whole. They also grant permits, so we work with them. We must therefore work together to find a solution. I therefore share that point of view with Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u255	That "joint" also makes sense elsewhere. This refers to the fact that it is not possible for the government to manage its business through ADC tests and that a group, SMEs, will soon have to figure it out on its own. That's what I mean by "jointly." Out together, home together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u256	We need to look at everything in conjunction. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u257	That's not an answer to the question I'm asking. I'm worried about government projects being licensed with an ADC test. This is almost impossible for SMEs, so they cannot make use of it. This would mean that public projects are going ahead, and an SME's take a contractor who wants to build a hall on an industrial site, standalone, not in conjunction with an entire industrial area. That can't be the intention, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u258	No, the coherence also applies here. I wanted to stress that. So you have to look at these things among yourselves. I can't anticipate individual choices. But the fact that we are going along this route together, with the provinces, with the municipalities, in which all interests are taken into account, is central here. It is not the case that the Empire can now decide for itself what can continue and that the rest has checked. This really is a joint process of the Empire, provinces, municipalities and waterboards. In doing so, I also answered the question of the ADC test and SMEs. I owed that answer to Mr Geurts. Mr Futselaar asked whether the conclusion was not that there should be fewer livestock farming and less aviation. We need to look at all the issues that lie ahead. Again, we're going to do that in a structured way, putting everything together. I take note of Mr Futselaar's views. Mrs Dik-Faber agreed that no prioritization or authorisation can be obtained in the short term if the solution is still lacking. We are not going to grant permits now, because there is no such space at the moment. However, we need to look at what will become the balancing framework on which to decide what is to come. Once again, we are going to follow that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u259	I'm just trying to get it straight. How long are we gonna wait? Are we waiting until we come up with an overall solution before we go back to licensing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u260	No, I said that in the short term we should now map out the options, for example as regards netting and that sort of thing. You'll have the projects in sight, where there are still bottlenecks. Then, of course, you get a consideration of how to deal with it. But right now, there's no room to issue new permits. That's not the case we stand for. If we had, we would not have had this debate here. Mrs Dik-Faber also said that the ruling requires both source and recovery measures, and she asked how we are going to do that. As I said, I spoke to the provinces about continuing the recovery measures. We're also looking at what source measures we can take. We were already working on that and we will continue to do so. The SGP said: prioritize the designation and review. In the end, that is what it will come down to. That's why we're going through the process. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions that have been asked about the organisation. That's a next block. It was asked whether there was a crisis team or not. I never care what name you give to anything. We simply quickly set up an organisation where interdepartmental work is being done, together with the provinces and later also with municipalities and water boards, to look, for example, with lawyers, where solutions are located, how we do this in the short term and also more fundamentally. Whatever name you give to it, I find of minor importance. Can we undertake to provide an insight as quickly as possible into how we want to address the complex issue legally and ecologically? In the letter we sent, I also indicated exactly how we intend to do it and how we intend to organise it. I think that's been taken, too. Mr Futselaar asked whether, in the long term, a programmed approach would be possible again. It does not rule out the possibility of a programmed approach. He doesn't see it. It is said, however, that positive effects of measures on nature must be established before they can be included. However, we have started to look at a broader approach, which we are developing again. Only, what form such an approach takes, that really is for further elaboration. Mr Geurts asks if I am prepared to set up a state committee or a task force. We have indicated in the letter that we want to involve external experts in the whole process. There is a lot of thinking in the departments, but at the same time any thinking power to come to good solutions is welcome. I welcome Mr Geurts' request. I'll take a look at the word "state committee." That's got a certain load. The Secretary of State knows more about this. There's another kind of charge or procedure attached to that. My goal is to start such a committee as soon as possible. So I'm willing to do that. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we should give that committee two tasks. First of all, look at how authorisation can be dealt with. That is what I call the short-term approach. Of course, the requirements of the Council of State are the starting point. On this point, too, I would like to receive the views of such a committee, or of experts, or of whatever it is. Secondly, I would ask them to give an opinion on a new approach. So that is more for the long term; let me put it this way. This is not just about nitrogen; it is about exploring the possibilities of taking other harmful emissions, so it is really about tackling it in its entirety. The Minister of State will return to the form shortly, but I understand Mr Geurts' idea. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if the cabinet would shape a fundamental change, the rethinking of nitrogen policy. It is and remains the ambition to tackle the nitrogen surplus. We are looking as much as possible at an integral way to do that, so at the same time for nitrogen and other emissions. So we want to shape a new approach to this. Mr Bishop says that the municipal projects are at risk. He asks if we want to ensure that the VNG is hooked up. Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Chairman. I've got a few remaining dots. It's not that many anymore. I'm almost there. No, they're all on the premises of my colleagues. So I'm gonna give it to them for a little while. Excuse me. I think I answered them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u261	I see there are two other members who would like to interrupt you. Mr Moorlag got up earlier. Mr Weverling got there faster, but Mr Moorlag can go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u262	I do feel that we have a kind of plenary committee meeting in which all the factual questions are answered neatly, but in which a number of political questions have not been answered in my opinion. I've been talking about the timely anticipation. I talked about the business model, where we import large quantities of feed and put it into animals and export it again. We know that 45% of nitrogen comes from agriculture. I asked if we could continue with that model. I asked if there could be an intensification of the warm clean-up. I asked whether there could be an intensification of source and recovery measures. Those questions have not been answered to my liking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u263	Last Monday I presented my implementation plan for the vision of circular agriculture. In it, Mr Moorlag can read what measures we are all going to take, such as source measures and measures for the transition needed in relation to feed, for balancing soil and improving soil quality, and for shaping emission reductions in all these sectors. Mr Moorlag has already received 50 pages of plans in the field of agriculture last Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u264	Yes, but that is a vision that must be realised by 2030. There is now a crisis. A lot of projects have stopped. Many entrepreneurs are in uncertainty. I do miss a sense of urgency and the will to take unorthodox measures. That's just something I'm very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u265	The will to find solutions to the issues we face today is certainly there. We're gonna work really hard to see what's possible. I have indicated when the Chamber can expect more insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u266	Mr Weverling's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u267	I suspect I missed it because you told me at the very beginning, but I had asked another question about the crisis team, the plan of action and how often you want to inform the Chamber. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u268	The crisis team? I did deal with the issue of the crisis team, but then Mr Weverling might not be paying attention. I have indicated that we are going to send a letter before the summer in order to clarify the points I have just mentioned: grazing and fertilising, reports, what emerged from the administrative consultation. Those are the things we can just report. Everything we have to report, we'll report in that letter. In the summer we map the list a little further. I have indicated that the provincial projects will probably not be that far, because they require more detailed research. Just after the summer you will be informed by us about the possible short-term solutions. Then we're gonna show you how we're gonna explore the long-term solution. I think you're going to be very much informed by us in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u269	Thank you. Then I'll give the rulers two minutes for a little change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u270	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Schouten has, of course, already said a great deal. She's outlined the broad palette of what we're dealing with right now. My involvement in this is mainly due to the system's responsibility for spatial planning: the Environmental Law..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to limit it to that, of course, in view of the clock. For housing, we are mapping the consequences; Mr Schouten has already said so. That's a lot of work, because especially the provinces, but also the municipalities, have to do the work there and also do the work. They're working very hard on that. We assume that this will certainly have consequences. Potentially even major consequences. But of course we are going to map that much more precisely, especially as Mr Schouten said, and we are going to inform your Chamber of that. From the system responsibility for the Land Planning Act and the Environment Act, Mr De Groot spoke about this, I say: the supplemental track nature becomes part of the system of the Environment Act. The Environment Act is about an integral approach to the whole physical environment. When we later have the Environmental Law and the Supplementary Law nature, we can rather and better form an image of the whole policy, and all the rules associated with it, that play in the physical environment. Nature becomes a part of all the municipal and provincial environmental visions and the NOVI. This is in itself a good and helpful development. Mr De Groot asked whether this law could define the good state of conservation for nature. He suggested, I believe, doing so in the law itself. We are going to talk about it here in the Chamber soon, if that's all right. With regard to the nature rules in the Environment Act, which we then come to discuss, I intend to remind Mr De Groot and others that we can best do the follow-up decision on nature in the elaboration of the measures for a favourable conservation status. But I'm sure we'll get back to that. That is what I imagine as the best relationship between the law and the supplemental decision, i.e. an AMvB. A definition of the "favourable state of conservation" will therefore be included. The supplementary decision shall be submitted to the Chamber. In the planning as I have it now, it's after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u272	I can hear the Minister say very well that the Environment Act is meant to be able to make an overall assessment. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agrees. The environmental values for water and air are defined very precisely in the Environment Act, but nature is actually referred to an AMvB. That is why I think it is logical to say: if you are looking at vulnerabilities when it comes to implementing European policies, give nature the same place as water and air, in the Environment Act. That way we can do it in a Council of Stateproof way. That is an urgent advice to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u273	Mr De Groot and I agree that the one coherent whole for all those parts that are important for the living environment will soon make it easier for nature, water, air, noise, smell and so on to look at the whole and check to see to what extent it is in line with European law. So I welcome the support for that. I think that Mr De Groot and I also agree on how to deal with nature, namely in the same way as with water and air in terms of the definition of conservation. If we come to talk about this next week, I will look very closely at the lyrics with Mr De Groot, but I want to do nature in the same way as water and air. I think that's just the same with AMvB. But we will certainly come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u274	It would be good if the Minister looked again at the possibility of defining an environmental value for nature in the Environment Act, but thank you for the Minister for taking a week to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u275	Sure. Finally, Mr President. Mr Schouten has already responded to the suggestion made by Mr Geurts of the CDA to a state committee. I took a look at it. In order to set up a committee, we agreed on certain rules. Indeed, it is usually a consultative commission that you set up because you want a certain degree of extra independence, because it is a sensitive issue that you want to have authoritative advice for or because specific expertise is needed. Furthermore, you do not do it if there is another obvious committee that you could ask. These are basically the frameworks we set out when we set up a research or advisory committee. Mr Schouten has already responded positively to this. I also heard Mr Geurts speak of a state committee. In strictly legal terms, it is not very different from a consultative committee. The institution is a bit heavier, because it goes to a state committee at KB instead of by ministerial regulation. Usually, but that's more of a tradition we have, it's about constitutional reforms or other very heavy new legislative processes. But that's the choice there is. I think that when you set up such a committee, you are primarily looking for expertise and independence. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u276	Thank you. Oh, Mr Geurts has a supplementary question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u277	In the beginning, I heard the Minister talking nuancedly about the PAS statement. I heard words like 'possible' and 'potential', but I assume that the Minister also received a memo from the civil service which expressed a little more urgency, because this statement is really a problem. I was also wondering if this Minister could talk so nuancedly, because she feels that the problems in the projects that this Minister of the Interior is responsible for could be solved through an ADC test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u278	No, not at all. The reason why I am talking about it in a nuanced manner is that I fully agree with Mr Schouten that the approach we are taking must be consistent with the urgency and potential problems that lie behind it. We see them, and we also take them into account that they can be major consequences. I've just outlined that for housing as well. But I also believe that we are wise to know more first. "As fast as it can be carefully," I think, our approach and now fits nuance, but it certainly doesn't mean I wouldn't see the big consequences. I am not at all ready to say now that we might be able to follow this procedure in a particular type of project and not in others. Once again, this will only be dealt with on the next step. Mr Schouten has just argued that, and I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u279	Then I would like to explain this abbreviation for the people who are still awake, following this debate and not knowing this abbreviation. It is a test in which it must be argued that there is no alternative, A, and a compelling reason, D. It must also be of general interest and compensation must be provided. That's the C. The other abbreviations we have repeatedly explained but not these, and people are going to think: what the hell is an ADC test? And they know that now!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u280	Mr President, thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u281	Mr President, you can also put the letters in a different order and then you get a particular batch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u282	I hadn't noticed that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u283	I think Mr Geurts is very awake at this time of day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u284	That's true, yes. Well, then we'll continue with the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State for the questions that were addressed to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is not very many, because Mr Schouten has answered most of the questions very well by far. I have been asked by Mr Geurts whether I would like to indicate how many infrastructure projects the Empire is concerned with. Of course, this is mainly about the MIRT projects. We have 110 projects in the ongoing MIRT. If you are asking how many of them are affected, then we should be careful to assume that they are all affected in a certain way. Because if something new is being built somewhere, there is actually always nitrogen and we will always have to look at how much that is and how we should deal with it. So this is all about projects. That's what you asked. It's about roads and waterways. These are rail projects, but also water safety projects. Really all projects can have to deal with the PAS, especially because it is about construction. These aren't projects that belong to the Empire alone. MIRT projects are very often in cooperation with regional authorities, provinces, municipalities, metropolitan regions and so on. The aim is to at least clarify what it means exactly when we are going to have the MIRT administrative consultations in the autumn. So we are still working very hard on this, because we just don't know exactly what consequences it will have. They also asked how long such an ADC test lasts in infrastructure projects. At least we shouldn't have the illusion that an ADC is an abc, in the sense of: it's something you do just as quickly and easily. It certainly isn't. It is not a quick solution, but it is also very different from one project to another. For example, the A of "alternative" is much more difficult to find in one project than in the other. If you're talking about compensation, of course it makes a big difference about what habitat type you're talking about. That is why we really need to look at all the projects to see how best to deal with them. We do this together with the regional authorities in all MIRT projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u286	In the case of infra-projects in particular, can the Minister indicate that it could be that, for example, the widening of a road leads to less emissions, that it actually has a positive effect and should be given priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u287	That indicates how complex it is, because in theory all these things are possible, but we have to consider all the different effects in each project.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u288	So a good solution for nitrogen emissions would be to build as much asphalt as possible and thereby avoid congestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u289	Well, that seems a little short to me, too, to stay in infrastructure terms. I would just like to say that we simply have to look very carefully at how we can achieve a balance between nature and the economy in each project. Then Mr Moorlag asked whether the Minister was prepared to offer a fair price to motorists and lower the speed limit on motorways. On the other hand, Mr Van Aalst's question was whether we wanted to lower the maximum speed. I would like to say to both gentlemen: that is really premature at the moment. We are still mapping everything, and I am not going to make a single statement on any measure for whatever, because that is really not at the moment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u290	I see that Mr Moorlag is not satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u291	I have another question for clarification, because my specific question was whether the Minister was prepared to allow for a reduction in the speed limit in her thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u292	In my opinion, a reduction in the speed limit has sometimes already been mentioned. We have already done so in certain places in the country for compelling reasons. But if you ask me in general, I'm not prepared to do that. We really look at what needs to be done on a case-by-case basis. We have agreed on these maximum rates in a good way and I see no reason to deviate from them at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u293	Should I note that this is not a position cast in concrete, but in asphalt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u294	Well, asphalt gets very liquid in the sun, so I don't know if I think that's a good comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u295	Mr. Van Aalst, you are through your interruptions. You've placed four interruptions. You can save your question for the second term. I hear the Minister say that this was her answer, but on the side of the Chamber questions from two Members have remained open. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u296	Mr President, I had one more interruption. It's about Lelystad for me. The Minister says: an ADC test is quite far-reaching and takes a long time. That's not one-two-three for each other. Now it is true that the airport decision is coming. That will be taken in the very short term. Wouldn't it be much more convenient to clarify the issue of licensing before an airport decision is taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u297	In itself nitrogen is not part of the aviation decision. But I have already explained in another debate this week that a report had been used under the PAS and that it is no longer possible to do so. An alternative to this must therefore be found. We don't know whether we can do that by means of an ADC test or by any other means. It's being studied. But I have already indicated in that committee that the airport cannot be opened if the problem of nitrogen has not been solved. However, I do not know how long that will take. Maybe we'll find a solution in the next few weeks and maybe it'll take longer. I really cannot anticipate that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u298	I find this very strange, because if you don't get a permit on the basis of the PAS, then it doesn't make much sense to take an airport decision, and then simply not to let the Chamber be moved at all. We shall therefore consider this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u299	I'll take note of that. You can always consider everything, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u300	The ministers then form such a crisis team together. I would also like to know from this Minister whether she recognizes that poor nature quality only leads to stricter testing and less possibilities, and that it is therefore very important to quickly reduce nitrogen deposition and restore nature. Are the rulers, then, on the same lines as the ambition that the nitrogen deposition should be reduced? This Minister must support that very strongly. Does she recognize that's necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u301	Mrs Ouwehand asks if these rulers are on the same page. Given the time, I say very briefly: I can confirm that there is no light or air or nitrogen in between. Well, maybe there's nitrogen between us; this is not a good comparison. But there's no light or air in between, because we all agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u302	Fine. My final question was also addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. We know of a history in which the review frameworks that the government devised for the authorisation of nitrogen problems were so rambling that we depended on small nature organisations, who had to spend all their time and energy going to court to allow the government to comply with its own laws. That's the bottom line. Does the Minister also feel an expensive duty to ensure that, whatever is being devised now, it really needs to be substantially improved? You can't make it in this rule of law to have citizens constantly begging the courts for the government to comply with its own laws, please. Does the Minister share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u303	On that question I can actually repeat what Mr Schouten said about this. Of course, we are going to do our utmost to find the best possible solution to this problem, which also stands in the way of justice. But I would also like to say that I have always assumed in the Chamber that in the past people have really had the intention and intention to do a good job. So I do not want to say that it was not in the past. But we, too, are going to try to solve it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u304	Thank you. I'm looking at the room. I assume there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Can we start with that right away? That is also the case. Fine. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks on the side of the House in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u305	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has concluded that the current Programme Approach Nitrogen does not meet the requirements to protect Dutch nature;]] [[Whereas, at the opening of Lelystad Airport, nitrogen dioxide emissions from both aviation and road traffic to the airport will increase and these additional emissions from Lelystad Airport will fall in several Natura 2000 areas, including Veluwe and Wieden Weerribben;]] [[Whereas it is not evidence of good administration to adopt an irrevocable decision without an understanding of the necessary permits;]] [[refers to the Lelystad Airport Decision not to deal with before all airport permits are in order to become operational,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government faces major challenges in terms of climate and biodiversity and has presented a circular agriculture implementation plan which states that nature and agriculture are mutually reinforcing;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to support farmers near Natura 2000 sites with earning models for the intensification of their business and to inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has concluded that the current Programme Approach Nitrogen does not meet the requirements to protect Dutch nature;]] [[Whereas a reduction in the maximum speed leads to a significant reduction in N0 emissions from cars;]] [[calls on the Government to examine which natural areas can benefit from a reduction in the maximum speed on roads affecting those natural areas and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-150]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Kröger, Mr Moorlag and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-151]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u306	And then a very short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u307	You're over your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u308	But Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u309	I'm gonna look at the Chamber to see if she agrees that you're gonna file another motion. I see the Chamber has no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to take seriously the ruling of the Council of State and to seek an integral solution for reducing nitrogen in the Netherlands and to take the protection of nature as the starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u311	Thank you, Madam President. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State's decision on the Strategy Programme puts at risk a large number of projects;]] [[considers that it is of the utmost importance to clarify the issues raised;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up, as soon as possible, a list of all projects and activities threatened by the decision of the Council of State and to indicate possible ways of resolving them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Geurts, Mr De Groot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u312	I am pleased to see that there is a commitment to suspending enforcement until there is a valid licence. I think that'll give you some peace in the country. Then I would like to hear the commitment a little more clearly whether, despite the fact that the Minister did not see a lot of ecological possibilities, when updating the target document, he would like to review the designation decision again. She said to take that. Can she come back to that and keep us informed of what is coming out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u313	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u314	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has decided that the Programme Approach Nitrogen should not be used as a basis for authorisation for activities;]] [[Whereas it is important to permit economic activities around Natura 2000 sites leading the requirements of the European Birds and Habitats Directives;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a sustainable legal framework to permit economic activities around Natura 2000 sites, with the right balance of economy and nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot, Mr Weverling, Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-155]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u315	I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply, particularly the Minister for the Interior. We're talking about the Environment Act next week. It is very important to bring the interests of nature, water and air together and to treat them in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u316	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u317	Thank you, Mr President. The Party for Animals is not entirely reassured as to whether it all has penetrated the cabinet. The cabinet says again, "Hey, we need a ruse." The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen was the ruse, but it didn't work. Realize what it takes to protect nature. That's the purpose of the Nature Protection Act. Only if you do that right will there be room for economic development again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 45% of nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands come from livestock farming;]] [[noting the need for a significant reduction;]] [[noting that the Cabinet is committed to technology;]] [[Considering, inter alia, that the General Court concludes that the impact of techniques is often overestimated and that additional measures are always needed to remain within the environmental limits;]] [[calls on the Government to announce a standstill for the grant of low-emission housing systems and other emission reduction techniques in livestock farming until it is clear how the reduction of nitrogen emissions will be addressed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u318	My second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State has clearly considered that, on the basis of the Approach Programme, no authorisation should be granted for projects emitting nitrogen;]] [[noting that at present provinces are still handling draft permits submitted before the time of judgment;]] [[noting that this week the province of Friesland has granted an extension of a dairy farm;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that provinces withdraw all draft permits immediately and do not continue to deal with pending applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u319	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u320	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has four High Colleges of State outside its parliament. Half of them, namely the General Court of Auditors and the Council of State, have now made it very clear that nitrogen policy must change in the Netherlands and that nitrogen emissions must be reduced. Maybe there'll be more. I can imagine that next week the National Ombudsman would like to say something about it, but I suspect that the Kanselarij der Nederlandse Orden will stay on the plain. This means we have to do something. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has effectively put an end to the operation of the Nitrogen Approach Programme, as it does not provide sufficient protection for Natura 2000 sites;]] [[noting that this makes it more difficult or difficult for a large number of developments. made impossible, from business expansions to infrastructure projects, to housing projects, to grazing;]] [[considers that the ruling of the Council of State demonstrates that biodiversity protection is impossible without a substantial reduction in nitrogen emissions;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a short-term approach to a significant reduction in nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands within a few years, based on at least animal husbandry and aviation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u322	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nature policy has been decentralised to the provinces;]] [[noting that the Council of State's speech has major consequences;]] [[considers that it is undesirable to have different policies with regard to Nature Conservation Law permits;]] [[calls on the Government to take charge of the conditions under which Nature Protection Law permits can be granted, in accordance with the provinces and with the close involvement of the VNG, and to ensure consistent authorisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u323	The last motion is more a signal to the provinces than to the minister, who has made statements in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u324	Thank you. It was interesting that when you said that two High Colleges of State had spoken, an official fell off his chair. That was the blow we just heard. But fortunately, the official's back on his feet. I call Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u325	Mr. Chairman. One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Council of State's statements on the Nitrogen Approach Programme (PAS) and its major implications for activities awaiting authorisation and for future development;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee to advise on short-term solutions for the PAS and comprehensive long-term solutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr De Groot, Mr Moorlag and Mr Weverling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u326	I wonder what that committee should do. For example, it has been clear for a long time that livestock farming is responsible for irresponsible nitrogen deposition in vulnerable natural areas. There is an official advisory body of the government, the Environment and Infrastructure Council, which has said, for example, that the shrinkage of livestock is inevitable, given the climate objectives. So I wonder why the CDA itself is not in a position to conclude what is needed to reduce nitrogen depositions. What's a committee supposed to do? And is the CDA going to put aside the advice of that committee if it does not like it, as was the case with the advice of the Environment and Infrastructure Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u327	It's never good. If the CDA comes up with something, it's not okay, but if the CDA wants some other people to think along, it's not okay. So we can do little good in the eyes of the Party for Animals. I also refer to the debate we have had, with interruptions, in the first term. Minister Schouten also formulated a number of further research questions in her first term. I think this is a sufficient answer for Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u328	Yeah, but when is that committee supposed to come up with some advice that the CDA's gonna listen to? Nitrogen reduction is now needed, and so is heavy. We know the sources, now that the Minister of Agriculture has had a state distributed. If Mr Geurts can't think of this himself, maybe he should find another job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u329	When we had the debate, it was yesterday. It's "good morning" now. "A very good morning" in CDA terms. I think Mrs Ouwehand had a hard disk drive failure when it was 24:00, because we have already discussed this extensively in the first period. I don't care because I'm good at it, because I don't think it's okay to do that again. I think Mrs Ouwenhand has heard very well which direction we are thinking. Let me summarize it once more in such a way that there is a balance between nature and the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u330	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand, we always do the second term in two. A very brief remark, but not another five sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u331	But when? When is this committee supposed to be done thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u332	Apparently, Mrs Ouwehand did not listen to the debate that took place in the first term. We have even talked about it through an interruption by Mr Weverling. As far as I'm concerned tomorrow, but I said that yesterday, so that's today. We came out on September-October. That would be a very good time for the committee to do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u333	Thank you. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u334	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I have two motions. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to bring public policies and authorisations relating to nitrogen depositions within the framework of the law;]] [[Whereas the creation of new development space for urgent societal challenges calls for unorthodox source measures;]] [[calls on the Government not to exclude an additional warm recovery of part of the livestock, better and fairer pricing of mobility and the reduction of the maximum speed as possible source measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Bromet and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u335	Fine. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in assessing, weighing and choosing source measures, it is desirable to have an insight into the effectiveness and societal costs and benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a list of possible source measures to be taken and to invite the PBL and the CPB to rely on the expected effectiveness and to provide a social cost-benefit analysis, and to inform the Court of Auditors of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u336	Finally, I would like to say: if you have to go through the fire, you better run through the fire than crawling through the fire. I urge the government to urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u337	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst. He's dropping his second term. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a long debate. In the meantime, the summer has begun, it's June 21st. Despite the long debate, much is not yet clear. I am impressed by the enormous amount of work done by these ministers, by the departments, but also by the local authorities. That's a hell of an achievement. I'd like to stay informed about the results. I myself have no motions, but I have co-signed a number of motions; Mr Weverling's motion on the list of projects, Mr De Groot's motion on a legal framework and Mr Geurts' motion on the committee. My group will certainly support that. For the rest, we are going to look with interest at the motions. I should like to wish the cabinet and in particular these three ministers a great deal of wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u339	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for three minutes so that the ministers can get the motions and give them an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u340	I give the floor to the Minister of LNV for the appreciation of motions and outstanding questions. I propose that everyone should be able to put only one clear question on their own motion if there is real reason to do so. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 150 will answer colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen. As regards the motion in part No. 151 I hear all kinds of ideas, input, proposals and so on. I have indicated that we are just going down a path to see what the possibilities and options are, and whether they can be taken on board. I'm not going to anticipate that right now. In that light, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 152 is for colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen. The motion in part No. 153 asks for the ruling of the Council of State to be taken seriously. We will. She also asks to look for an integral solution. I have indicated that that is our aim. But then it says: to take the protection of nature as a starting point. We have just had a discussion about grazing and fertilising, in which the Chamber indicated that it really wants to. Technically, protecting nature would not be the starting point. This already indicates that different consequences can be attached to this. That is precisely what we need to look at with each other and start weighing up. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u342	It's a very clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u343	I don't think it's right. In the case of pastures less ammonia is released than in the case of keeping animals in a stable. So I do not know why this example shows that nature cannot be put at the centre. The judge's ruling is that nature is leading this case, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u344	Sure, but especially for grazing and fertilising, it would be better to keep animals in technically. You'll be able to capture emissions. That already shows that this is a file with a lot of ifs and buts, and with other weighing grounds that I hear in your Chamber. That's why. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 154 asks for a list of projects and activities. We've indicated what the schedule is. The question is to do this as soon as possible. In addition, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 155 calls for the establishment of a legal framework for the granting of licences. Actually, that's a look-through for a next phase. That's what I call it. With these principles, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Weverling had also asked me a question. I'll answer that for a while. He asked for the re-evaluation of the designation decision. I have to say it very carefully. We are now in the process of updating the target system. Based on what comes out of it, the management plans can be looked at. The actualisation of the target system could therefore be used as input to look at the management plans. That's not about the designation decisions. I promised we could do that. I hope to have that insight in the autumn. In addition, you will then have to assess all these management plans. That's still a job. I can promise we'll look into that. Then the motion to part No. 156. Mrs Ouwehand says you shouldn't be working with low-emission barn systems right now. That could be a solution to the nitrogen deposition. But here too, in the context of all the ideas that come from the Chamber, we are looking at the possibilities. In that light, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u345	Mrs Ouwehand has a clear question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u346	If you invest in low-emission stables now, partly from the government and partly from the farmers themselves, and you have no idea if that will be enough, then that's a waste of money, isn't it? I ask for a standstill until the Minister has a plan on how the emission reduction will be achieved. That's not such an unreasonable question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u347	If you want to do something about your stable now, you need a permit. Adjusting that stable would already be an issue surrounding the licensing. Again, if it could also lead to the reduction of nitrogen, we would cut our own fingers again. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 157 does Mr Ollongren. Then the motion to part No. Mr Futselaar. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Futselaar on his Mr Futselaar's ambitions are high: a significant reduction in nitrogen emissions in the short term. That also falls into the category of good ideas. Here too, we are going to look at what steps are possible and what considerations we need to make. With that, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 159 on the province and the VNG does colleague Ollongren. Then the motion to part No. 160. The state committee has become a committee. The word "states" has been crossed out. I think that is also wise in the sense that we can get to work quickly and act decisively. With this change made on the spot, I can give this motion judgment Chamber. Then we have the motion in part no. 161. Here too, we are going to look at the options and the weighting to be given. We're not getting ahead of ourselves, so I'm going to advise against this motion. I think those were the motions. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u348	There's still the motion in part No. 162, in which the Government is invited to draw up a list of possible source measures to be taken and to ask the OJ and the CPB to pass them on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u349	Let's see. These are things that require a lot of work. I have indicated that we want to continue with the source measures, and we are also going to look at their effectiveness. But if we are going to provide this with a social cost-benefit analysis, we are going to organise a lot of things around it. We are working on the source measures and we are also going to look at the effectiveness, but if we all have to go through these steps, it will take a lot of time. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u350	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior on two motions, the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 157 and 159.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u351	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to point out to Mr De Groot that when we talk next week about the Environment Act and nature, I am also thinking of an equal standard for nature, water and air. But we'll get back to that. The motion in part No. 157 by Mrs Ouwehand requests that provinces immediately withdraw all draft permits and do not deal with pending applications. I have to advise against that motion, because there is still a possibility of licensing on the basis of ADC. You just have to look at that by license. Then the motion to part No. 159 by Mr Futselaar. It follows a bit of the same reasoning: steering on consistent licensing. But that does not relate very well to the fact that all these initiatives are different and that the situation of nature may also vary from one region to another, as Mr Schouten has outlined. What we do as a cabinet, together with the local authorities, is to devise this approach and we are not going to categorize it in front of it in this way. I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u352	Mr Futselaar, for a clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u353	I understand that not every licence application is the same. I am concerned that they should be assessed in the same way, according to the same framework, in all twelve provinces. There are some signs that perhaps not every province is equally enthusiastic about that. Then I find a firm direction from the cabinet very useful and also supplement something. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u354	The cabinet is building up with the provinces, the municipalities and the waterboards, but what Mr Futselaar is asking leaves too little room for diversity. But he doesn't have to doubt our commitment and, by the way, he doesn't have to doubt that of the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u355	Mrs Ouwehand has a clear question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 157.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u356	Yeah, and then I'll tell you first that I'm going to have the motion in part no. 156 retention. My question concerns the motion for a resolution on item No. 157. The Secretary of State is dissuading the motion. Then I am concerned about what was exchanged earlier in the debate. I have made the point twice that we are actually dependent on small nature organisations that put time and effort in objection and that see if what the government is doing is in line with the law. By dissuading this motion, the Minister actually says: if no one in the social field objects to all the permits that are still in progress and the draft permits that are still there, then we are not going to intervene. I really don't think I can, really can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u357	That is not a clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u358	It is contrary to what I have heard the Minister of IenW and the Minister of LNV say: we must do better as a government. Can the Minister of the Interior then acknowledge that there is a great deal going on that could be irresponsible if there are no people taking the trouble to object?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u359	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u360	No, that's not the approach we have at all. The approach is to look closely together with provinces and other co-governments at what exactly is going on, to map it out and to develop an approach together with them. In our view, this does not relate well to the motion as it stands here. It is absolutely essential and does not do justice to the fact that licences can still be granted on the basis of the ADC.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u361	Thank you. For the Acts I confirm that the motion in part No. 156 has been detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u362	Yeah, that's right. The motion in part No. 150 concerns the non-treatment of the Lelystad Airport Airport decision before all airport permits are in order to become operational. I'd like to dissuade that motion, because you're perfectly capable of doing things in parallel. You don't have to deal with all this in a time-to-time manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u363	It says "pronounced": "the Chamber pronounces."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u364	That is indeed up to the Chamber, so you did not need my judgment, but I gave it to you anyway. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u365	Mrs. Bromet is right. I should have watched that, too. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u366	The motion in part No. 152 asks the government to examine which natural areas can benefit from a reduction in the maximum speed. There my answer is the same as that of the other colleagues. We are not going to anticipate any measure, so I also advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u367	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-20-tweedekamer-13.u368	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I wish everyone a safe home and good night.
