ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u1	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of this Chamber for the questions. I would, of course, like to dwell on the fact that this is the last debate for some of your colleagues. It's an honor to have that with them. For the first-term answer I have made a number of folders. Perhaps it will help your Members to know in what order I am going to try to answer the questions, which often had a certain coherence. First of all, I would like to address the issue of proportionality, usefulness and necessity. In addition, questions related to affordability and capacity in the market have been asked. First of all, I will deal with market capacity and costs. Then I will deal with a very important point, which has been mentioned by many Members, about funding and support for people who need to take a step. I will then go into the fund in more detail as the main instrument for funding and support. I will explain how this fund is structured and what the fund is aimed at. Then I'll answer some questions that were about differentiation. In this case, that is a key word for the question of whether as much as possible can be connected to a natural moment, which would, of course, be close to the prohibition date. I also come to the question of what can be done about direction, care and facilitation. Then a number of specific questions have been asked about, for example, the 35-square-metre limit, legal procedures and dumping. I'll deal with that later. Finally, an important block is enforcement. I build it that way, because it's all blocks that are really connected. I'll start with proportionality. What the House of Representatives said on this point about the law is of course clear, but that does not relieve the House of its own responsibility, as one of you said, for a solution or for the problem. That's the problem. Asbestos is carcinogenic. Exposure to it shall be reduced as far as possible. That is why there has been a ban since 1993. That is why asbestos roads have already been tackled as a very important source. That is why this proposal is also important. This proposal is based on an opinion of the Health Council of 2010, which says: strengthen the source policy. What is the last large residual source of asbestos fibres in the outdoor air? Those are the asbestos roofs. Without this law, the asbestos roofs won't go away. Without this law, the problem is not gone. Without this bill, we have no basis for speeding up and ensuring that the risks do not increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u3	I hear the Secretary of State say that the roofs will not leave without this law. But in the underlying material I also read something about the autonomous process. If we don't do something, when are all these roofs supposed to be gone? I read this is in 2040. Perhaps it is good to know that there is also a natural improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u4	Of course, Mr. Chairman. But the Health Council has said: strengthen the source policy. Let me put it this way: without this law, there is no strengthening of the source policy. This law is a basis on which various elements of a building are then built. Without this law, there's no foundation for all those other blocks that have to help. This means that without this law we cannot prevent an increase in the health risk. Without this law, we cannot avoid the increase in the enforcement burden of municipalities. Without this law, we cannot offer clarity to owners and the market in terms of insurability and merchantability of the homes. Without this law, it becomes more difficult to control incidents involving asbestos fires and their financial consequences, incidents that sometimes lead to serious disturbances of public life and social unrest. Without this law, there is an autonomous pace. It does indeed take up to about 2044 or 2045. Then it would be solved. But we all know that asbestos roofs are a risk if they defend. In the expert meeting even the experts who are critical of this law have said so. We all know that weathering increases greatly over time. The longer the asbestos roofs lie, the stronger the weathering is and the greater the risks. So the risks are there, because the roofs are there. Without this law, we have no instrument in our hands to reduce those risks. The roofs are all over 30 years old because the ban started in 1993. I always prefer to talk about the odds and the positives. With this law, we have a basis to base an AMvB. With this AMvB we can set a clear deadline on the one hand, on the other hand, which also forms the basis for cooperation between all parties needed to ensure that asbestos roofs are properly renovated. With regard to coordination and direction, I will go into that further later, and we need to ensure that there is a country-wide system that people can use when they get into trouble. That is what I have heard a great deal about from Members: what are we going to do with the people who are in this situation and who cannot afford it? I can tell you: I think it is a very fair question and I see a very legitimate concern. It's really my intention to take that concern away from you. In fact, I would like to explain how we intend to respond to these concerns with this fund. People are mentioned, for example, who have a small pension or who have a house with an asbestos slate roof, whose clean-up is more expensive than usual, or a farm barn that is no longer used. What do we impose on people if we adopt this ban and how do we help those people to get clean up? Those are good, logical questions. I'll deal with that. We've already started a huge movement. As many as 40 million m of the original 2012 120 million has already been repaired. That achieved acceleration, which we have really achieved because all those parties have come together, we must hold on and expand instead of losing the momentum. I'm really fighting that the 40 million m is all about the low-hanging fruit. It was also the early movers, the people who saw that this was a risk. They have said: although I am not sure if the ban is going to happen, I am going to do it because I see the risks and do not want me to walk those fibres that go off my roof at my barn and end up in the ground around the barn, which gives me a higher exposure to asbestos in my house than is healthy. For that reason, people are already before the troops go out to clean up. Their roofs are among those 40 million meters that have already been done. It's not easy, it certainly isn't. That is why my efforts are aimed at facilitating and abetting. We must be aware of the harrowing cases. I absolutely agree with you. But we must prevent our concern for the harrowing cases, which we could well cover up with each other, from becoming a reason not to do the rest. I'd be really worried about that. Secretary of State Atsma Honorary Honorary Honorary, sent a letter to the Chamber in 2012. He said: "I am committed to avoiding situations in which people are exposed to asbestos and therefore wants to reduce this source of asbestos in the living environment faster than in 2044, because both the cost per m and the health risks increase with the age of asbestos. (...) In the light of the above-mentioned incentive to clean up and combine with, for example, the installation of solar panels, I choose to ban asbestos roofs by the year 2024, 30 years after the entry into force of the 1994 ban to apply and more than 50 years after the peak of the placing of asbestos roofs in the 70s. The total economic lifetime of asbestos roofs and façade coverings is 30 to 50 years, depending on the sector." If we look at where we are now at the age of asbestos roofs, we are 30 years after the ban and 50 years after the peak. The Health Council has therefore proposed a tightening of the risk standard. The Health Council considered it necessary in 2010 to significantly reduce the existing standards, because if I put it simply, asbestos was even more dangerous than it was thought. It's that standard of the Health Council and that advice from the Health Council that's still leading me. I have heard questions from many members of the Chamber about what I think of the expression of expert A or expert B. There are a lot of experts who have expressed their views on this issue. We can see that one expert points out, for example, that famous Aedes report, which has been mentioned by some of you. It contains a number of conclusions. Other experts say that: the conclusions of that report are, in my opinion, completely incorrect. That's what a professor of oncology says. "I think the report is grossly incorrect and inconsistent, as part of what we know as best science." That's what an asbestos authority in the United States says. And in response to Mr. Helsloot's statement that incidental exposures do not endanger health, Nico van Zandwijk, professor of oncology, says: this is an unfounded statement. There are a lot of quotes like this. If we are not careful, all these quotes ask the members of this Chamber and the Cabinet to make the exact weighting between one expert's judgement and that of the other. I think we should be careful with that. For that we have institutes like the Health Council and RIVM. These are the fully independent experts who advise the government in the shaping of policy objectives. And the advice of the Health Council is: tighten up the source policy. And the asbestos roofs are the largest remaining source. Mr. Chairman. The RIVM also wanted to specify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u5	I'd like to ask you something that the Secretary of State may still come up with, but I'll let you know. I'm trying to figure it out as a layman. I read about terms like Negligible Risk and Maximum Allowable Risk. I think, then, maximum tolerance is permissible. Underneath it gets, say, the label "acceptable." What does this bill contribute to these two values? I'm very curious about that. After everything I've read, it's not clear to me yet. I see the Secretary of State nodding, so I'm sure there'll be another answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u6	I do think it is important to clarify these two concepts. The Negligible Risk is the advice to be taken into account. The Health Council says: the limit value of the Negligible Risk thus indicates the quality level to be respected. So we need to steer that Negligible Risk. That's 10. Those of you who have more to do with external security policy know that this is the standard applied to other areas as well. The standard of 10 is a very common external safety standard in the Netherlands, and so it also applies here. The recent RIVM signal, whatever you have had, says: To reduce the risks to society, the aim of the asbestos policy is to reduce the concentration of asbestos in the outdoor air to below the Negligible Risk. So that's what we send together. This is very consistent with other policies, including 10 as a risk standard. We're not under it yet; we're still above that standard. That Negligible Risk is 28 fibers, and we are now at about 35 fibers; that measurement was also mentioned earlier. The Health Council says if you want to bring this down any further, you need to address the source. Asbestos roofs are the great source that we now have and which we can address in order to get to the standard of that Negligible Risk, which actually applies to all the other areas of external security. Mrs Fiers asks to be very precise about how far you can get with that. I can't. But these asbestos roofs are the last major source and this is what the Health Council has advised. There they say: strengthen the source policy to achieve that standard of the Negligible Risk. The sources are lined up, and this is the last big source we have. Previously, we've been working on the roads. That was a big source, too. This is now the last major source.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u7	So the effect of this law whether or not to execute on that Negligible Risk is not in the picture. How does that scenario work, even if we opt for autonomous reorganisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u8	If you're not gonna clean up this last big source, it's gonna increase. And we've just established that it's going to increase. Because as the weathering increases, the release of the fibers increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u9	You could also argue that with an autonomous clean-up, asbestos will also disappear. For example, people are going to replace their roofs in the coming years because they need solar panels on them. The Secretary of State says it's increasing. But then she might assume that the asbestos remains on the rooftops and is only going to defend itself. But, of course, there's also such a thing as autonomous cleaning. With incentives in the field of renewable energy, we are also going to replace these roofs at a certain pace. If we compare this with the effect of this law, which actually imposes an obligation at the end of 2024, what is the difference in relation to that Negligible Risk? Is there a picture of that? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u10	The difference, of course, is just twenty years. With the pace of autonomous clean-up you will come out in 2044, and with this law you will come out in 2020. So it saves 20 years of weathering, at 80 million m rooftops. These roofs are starting to release more and more fibers. So the sooner you do this, the better it is, and the later you do this, the more fibers a year will release. You know the number of fibers that release will be greater every year. So that means that you can't say that if you cut those twenty years into two periods, you have now ten years. So it's really an ascending line. That's the difference you're going to make with this law: twenty years earlier, you're going to put that real, structural line in the direction of that Negligible Risk. At the same time, the reports show that if you allow the pace of autonomous reorganisation to continue, you will go further away from that standard of the Negligible Risk. So the question is whether we want to allow the Negligible Risk to go further out of the picture? Or do you strengthen the source policy, as advised by the Health Council, and so are you going towards that Negligible Risk standard? We're close to that standard now, but we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u11	Can the Secretary of State also reflect on the possible negative impact of an obligation, for example on asbestos dumping?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u12	I'll get back to you on that. Absolutely, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u13	Now that the Secretary of State has described this in detail, I would like to return to the hearing we organised here and to which you also referred. It was said, among other things: in the east wind you suddenly see a substantial increase in the number of fibers in the living environment and in the outdoor air. Would the Secretary of State please respond in her own words to that aspect? I am particularly asking for this because the international component, which some other colleagues have mentioned this morning, is still lacking in policy. Perhaps that is also an element that the Secretary of State could now take with him: east wind and what is coming from Germany? And how can you match that with what the Secretary of State has put forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u14	Two things about that. The wind is blowing, and we have relatively little influence on that. What we do have influence on are the roofs in the Netherlands. Strengthening the source policy in the Netherlands means at least reducing the release of fibres here. Especially in the immediate vicinity of places where the fibers are released, there is always a high risk of flushing and walking in those fibers by people, for example in their own premises. That's something that has nothing to do with the wind at all. In addition, east wind is not the most common wind. The most common wind in the Netherlands is west wind. I have also asked for advice on this point, and I was told that its impact was assessed as very small. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to go on with the question of whether it's proportional. That is the question that the first group of questions raised. The RIVM has also sent out a clear signal on this issue. RIVM clearly indicates that there is no "sympathetic" type of asbestos. Asbestos in bound form is not a problem in principle, but the problem of asbestos is precisely the release of these fibres by weathering. So if those fibers are released by weathering, you're not talking about that bound asbestos anymore. RIVM also says that reading the articles may have given the impression that the risk of asbestos is less than expected. RIVM stresses that this is not the case. There have been no new insights on the risk of asbestos from health damage since 2010. Asbestos is a carcinogenic substance for which there is no safe lower limit of exposure. That is why it is said: you should really strive to come under that standard of that Negligible Risk. With this law, we're making the move to that border, and without this law, you're getting off that line. Mr. Chairman. The limit value indicates the quality level to be respected. That's what the Health Council says about this. I understand the questions, but I think we should also take with us that this is a risk that we literally know where it lies. That is not true for many other risks. They are sometimes elusive and sometimes it is difficult to determine exactly what to do to limit that risk. That's very easy for this risk. We know literally that it is in the municipality of Dalfsen, for example. We literally know the street in Lelystad where it is. We literally know where these roofs are located in the municipality of Utrecht. We know exactly where it lies, and we also know that there are all kinds of measures to reduce this risk. Mr President, if we do not do this, we will allow us to get further away from that avoidable risk, that Negligible Risk. A specific question has been asked by Mr van Dijk of the SGP on outdoor fibers. I have already said that we are now about 35. The question is: are we going to move away from the Negligible Risk, or are we going to try to get there by addressing the last major source?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u15	Do you mind if I hit this? I, too, am not an expert in this field, but I understand that we are now at 35 and that we should go to 28. I understand from experts that they are both negligible quantities, which cannot even be measured. The main issue remains what the benefits of this bill are now. Compared to the nineties, the air is much cleaner. And for the indoor climate of houses we accept a much higher number of asbestos donkeys. It's still incredibly complicated, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u16	I believe that the numbers referred to by Mr Van Dijk do not relate to the general indoor climate, but to working conditions. There, too, the number of fibres has been adjusted to the risk of 10. So there too that standard has been used. The same standard is always used. We have said that we must ensure that we get underneath it. We must not, of course, think that we can go so far that we can know very precisely whether we are on 28 or 29 fibres; that is bogus precision; I share that with Mr Van Dijk. But it is quite clear that this is a great source and that asbestos roofs that defend will release many more fibres. Thus, without a joint coordinated and concentrated approach, the risk will increase, rather than move towards negligible risk. And this is when we know exactly where the risk lies and we also know exactly what we can do about it. If we know that the second block of the answer is that we can do it technically, but that we can do it in a way that is bearable for the people involved, then in my opinion there is a very important key. For me, too, it is very important that you do not put anyone in an impossible situation because of such a ban. But because you know exactly where the risk lies and you also know that it can be technically done, you want to get the instruments in place to make it possible, including for the people involved, to take that step. On that point, I share the concerns of the Chamber very much and I am also very motivated to come up with a solution with the Chamber which we say should be possible in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u17	I would like to touch on the point made by the Secretary of State that we know exactly where the risk lies. As we understand it, this applies to 182 municipalities, which have detected 400,000 roofs. But the other municipalities have not yet inventoried this, or at least we have not yet available the data. And time fades on. And then we only have the data digitally it is an asbestos roof or not an asbestos roof without you knowing anything about the quality of that asbestos roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u18	I'm sure I'll come back to that later. I did not want to say that we already know exactly where it is from every roof, but we know where the roofs are. I will also give the Chamber a slightly more optimistic picture of how far we are with the registration. That is, for a small part, an ongoing process, that is true, but when we complete it, we really know exactly where it is from every roof. Now we already know 75% of this, I say as a sort of spoiler for the answer in a moment. Grosso modo............................................................................................................................................................ We also follow it, in order to maintain the risk of dumping, a question was asked about this too, which I shall come back to again to keep manageable and to prevent a leakage flow from there. It also called for consistency with other policy areas. Among other things, Mrs. Fiers asked for that. I have already mentioned the external safety standards of 10, but you can also see in other areas, such as pesticides, that there is a special regime on them. We have a special regime for very worrying substances. There too, you have to reduce and go further and further down and eventually come to phase-out. So there are other substances that we really have a very strict policy on, because we simply no longer think the risks are acceptable. Ms Baay-Timmerman asked if the effect of long-term exposure was included in the Health Council report. Yeah, that was taken. In my opinion, the Health Council has recently confirmed that the 2010 report contains the most recent insights on this issue. So it is true that long-term exposure has been assumed. I have already discussed the Aedes report in my introduction. Mrs Baay-Timmerman also asked a question about indoor asbestos. You can see that the real problems arise in the weathering of asbestos in particular. It is the weathering of the roofing that causes the fibers to loosen. And when they come loose, the big problems arise. That is why asbestos roofs are the main source of loose fibres and therefore pose the greatest risk. Also in the case of fires it appears that it is mainly the roofing that is spread. Sometimes asbestos is also in a sprouting wall, but it doesn't turn out to be so quick to get out. It's really about the roofs where asbestos spreads. Moreover, if asbestos is not attached to the house, the obligation to clean up already applies. That's the distinction that's being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u19	In what way does this concern the façade plates with asbestos in case of fire?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u20	That's a very good question. I also asked myself why the façade plates were not included as part of the ban. It turns out that the weathering of façade plates has a very different pace than the roof panels, which are much more weathered by the circumstances. However, I did say that if you want to take care of people, I will not come to that later: the instruments we put together only apply to the roof panels and not to those few façade plates. Because that would mean selling a house with asbestos façade plates on it. I'm willing to take care of the people, to make sure that the façade plates in the fund can also be taken, if that's what people want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u21	But we were just talking about fire. I imagine that not only an asbestos roof, but also façade plates in case of fire do provide loose asbestos particles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u22	Yeah, it could be for the facade plates. I thought you were referring above all to asbestos which is still in the house. That is also a reason to say: if we are going to clean up, it would be weird to say that we are abandoning those facade plates. I just want to leave people the choice to take that or not. The façade plates are not covered by the prohibition. If you look at the large surfaces, we're really talking about the roofs and not the façade plates. But I do want to offer people the option of taking that with me. Because it's weird if you say, no, you can't use the resources we have for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u23	So that means that now the commitment is made that if people clean their asbestos roofs, the fund will also make money available for the façade plates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u24	I think that façade plates should be able to be included in it, if that's what people want. Mr Binnema asked for support. I will come back to that later. We note that one of the speakers has also acknowledged that it is actually said that this is an example of a situation in which all parties really cooperate and want to work in the same direction, and also share best practices, in order to ensure that what works well in one province is also used in the other province. We have set up the National Programme Office for this purpose. These are all things that, in my opinion, really contribute, including for local authorities, who may have less room to invent the wheel themselves. On the contrary, we must ensure that we make use of these joint forces and help everyone to take those steps. That programme agency............................................................................................................................................................................................... Building The Netherlands is also involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u25	Mr. Earthema would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u26	I'm reacting a little late, but the Secretary of State just went into the facade plates, which might also be covered by the fund. I have argued that Mr Atsma did the same thing: there are, above all, many farms where asbestos is under the reed roofs. If you get a fire, the asbestos is gonna spread, too. Can you tell me if you're going to add that to the fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u27	I have the question "to where?" Mr Atsma asked a question about the definition of a roof in the written round. We've seen the weathering take place where it's exposed to the elements. That is why that ban applies. Those facade plates are said to be less subject to weathering. That's why they didn't end up in that ban, but if you do clean up your entire roof, then it makes sense for you to take it with you. I find that getting a little more critical on a wicker roof, because you're not going to clean that wicker roof because of the asbestos risks. They are not only caused by fires, but also simply by exposure to the elements. But if that's the question, I'm willing to see if I can say a little more about it in the second term. I find it difficult at the moment, because I cannot yet assess what we are talking about. Are we still talking about the same group that we are trying to help here, namely the people who are covered by this fund? Anyway, I'd like to see if we can say a little more about that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u28	I understand that the weathering of asbestos under wicker roofs and roof tiles is a little slow, but I myself have been to a large farm fire a few times. You'll see that the spread continues. Hence my question on this aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u29	I get the question. In any case, I will see whether we can say anything about this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u30	The Secretary of State just mentioned the issue of engagement, coalition, cooperation and so on. I have seen that the programme bureau, the asbestos ambassadors and the acceleration approach are working well. In this sense, a number of the parties that are needed work together, but I assume that LTO Netherlands, Association Eigen Huis, Aedes and so on have not only expressed their concerns towards this Chamber, or in some cases have even made an explicit appeal that it is moving too fast and that it is not feasible in this way. I think that these parties will be very much needed in the future if the ban is to be properly implemented. I was curious to see if those same signals have reached the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u31	A lot of statements have been made. Sometimes you also see that different people from the same party make different statements. For example, Mr Schenk of LTO called it a "sneak killer" and advocated moving towards this acceleration in the vicinity of farming families, which are particularly at risk. I think the key is to do it in a way that is feasible for everyone. I think that's the key to getting these parties too. If you have a house with a lean roof or a large farm but only a small AOW and barely freely disposable income, and if you have to pay it all off monthly, I imagine you don't think that's feasible. But if, for example, you can do so through an interest-free loan that has to be repaid only when a possible property is sold, then that is a completely different situation. Then maybe you'll feel much less that it's an impossible situation and less worried about the ban. I think the key is how we do it. That is very important in order to be able to take all these parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u32	Can I assume that the Secretary of State in the block about the fund and the loans will come back extensively on how the feasibility will be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u33	Yeah, absolutely. And, of course, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Mr. Chairman. I come now to the block that deals with the market and affordability. Whether something is affordable depends on the price and on the other side of the income of the person who has to pay it. The price is then linked to the costs in the market, and the costs in the market are again related to capacity. On the other hand, the income of someone, the funding, the solution, has to do with the question of what the alternatives are or what the situation is different. I shall return to all these points. Mr. Chairman. Several parties are working on more efficient and effective methods of clean-up. Hopefully, for the summer, it will be possible to clean roofs from open work troughs in certain situations. At the moment this is being investigated and we are looking to make it easier for roofers, for example, to clean up asbestos roofs. In addition, it looks at making working methods more efficient and, for example, it is beneficial to apply a foam coating to reduce the spread of fibres during removal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u34	Is there any consideration of the final destination of asbestos when looking at other methods of clean-up? At the moment it is packed in plastic, put in the ground and covered with concrete. In fact, it is left to future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u35	This question touches on another subject that concerns me very much: circular economy. In fact, you want as little products as possible to end up with the waste as something we can't do with. I can see if we can be a little more specific in the second term about methods, in particular, to defuse or even re-use asbestos, but only if we are sure that there are no more health risks. I am happy to see if I can say a little more about this in the second term. So we are looking at making working methods more efficient. This is mainly the responsibility of the Secretary of State for SZW, but we certainly do. It is planned that we will have a better view of this at the end of this year. I'll say more about that. We're also working on communication. The question of whether the market has sufficient capacity has to do with the pace. At your own hearing, too, VERAS made it clear that it should be about 15.000.000 m, that that is not a problem and that if we start from tomorrow, that means an additional capacity in the industry of about 250 to 300 employees, an increase of about 5%. If the question is whether the people are there to do it, it would mean an increase of about 5% according to the sector. That seems feasible. In addition, we are working on increasing the group of parties that can do this work, for example with those roof certificates, which I have just mentioned. So I fully understand that the capacity in the market is related to the prices that individual market participants can ultimately write down in their bid. It is therefore important that, with all the guarantees for the people who carry out the work, we look together for simplifications, simplifications, reducing concerns about the fact that it is a closed market, which can push prices up endlessly. Moreover, Mr Stam van VERAS says that the amounts are significantly higher: no, at most the landfill rates have increased slightly. I'll be back at landfill charges later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u36	The Secretary of State convinced me in the first round that we should go further along this road and that we really should do so, given the health risks. This brings me to an important subject: what could people do themselves or what can others do? You say, for example, that roofers can do something instead of asbestos repairers. At least I was on that trail with a number of colleagues. It is important to be very specific about this in this debate, because that is a very important road. That is in line with what people can do themselves. That's about the 35 m. That's what roofers can do. You're talking about coating. You say that's what we're looking at. But I think it is important that we get a concrete view of this in this debate, because that could be a huge relief for roof owners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u37	We need to look at the degree of precision we can achieve here, because in part I depend on my colleague from SZW, who must, of course, ensure that we continue to adequately protect the people who carry out the work. I still have a lot of answers that go into that, so perhaps we can see, at the end of this block, together with Mr Kuiper, if we have sufficient precision in the process when will that be clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u38	Then it would be important for the information of your colleague from SZW to be present in our debate. I don't know if there's room for that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u39	Yes. Someone from SZW contributed to the response. This information is directly involved, but if there are any outstanding points, I can always see if we can further clarify the question in the second period. I'd like to hear that later. Mr. Chairman. Among others, Mr. Earthema had asked if 2024 is feasible. The industry itself indicates to find it feasible. In addition, we are working on extending the parties that could do it. We are also committed to accelerating, inter alia by making collective approaches at district level more possible. Then you'll just go faster. We are also making funding available here, and I will come to this later and make it possible to communicate. You want to reach as many people as possible. That question was also asked: is there going to be a clear communication campaign so that everyone knows they have to get to work and no one is surprised? Then there was Mr Binnema's question on the burden-sharing between owners and public authorities. I will come back to that in a moment, because that is actually part of the other block. Then both Mr. Binnema, Mr. Kuiper, Mrs. Stienen and Mr. Earthema had questions about capacity. The SZW Secretary of State draws up a policy response to the functioning of the asbestos system. She indicated that, as a very concrete point, she wants to look at the requirements in the certification scheme. That was requested by the PVV, GroenLinks and the Christian Union. It wants the asbestos system to be simpler and more risk-oriented and that the certificate should focus more on the quality of the process and experts. By the end of 2020, the SZW Secretary of State wants all of this completed. Protection is paramount, but no unnecessary cost to the demands. Innovation that was a D66 demand is also taken into account. I will then investigate the risks of exposure to specific asbestos roofs. Of course, the Secretary of State has a responsibility over much more than just the out-of-the-box clean-up; she also has a responsibility over the in-house clean-up. In the interior cleaning a number of additional risks are more difficult, for example the tip of the open bins and the tip of the roof covers. So we're specifically looking at how we can make it easier for the exterior remodeling. At the end of 2019, at the end of this year, we hope to have that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u40	I first heard you say "end 2020" and then "end 2019. I'm just a little confused about when that clarity comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u41	The SZW Secretary of State is looking at the functioning of the entire asbestos system. This therefore relates to both internal and external clean-up. It wants to complete this by the end of 2020. But I'm looking specifically at the exterior remodeling. I will come back with some specific details on what we need to talk about. That should be done by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u42	However, one more point about certification. I understand what you are saying, namely that there should be broader certification, that more roofcoverers should be allowed to remove asbestos and that the SZW Secretary of State is looking at the valuation of the risk class and, in some cases, whether it can go down slightly. One of the points that we have also picked up is that there are very few certification institutions at the moment. So you can simplify it yourself on paper, but if there is only one institution that can certify we always come across Ascert and also control the market, then you keep it very limited. Then it can be true on paper, but not in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u43	I know the risk Mrs. Klip is taking. When I had a debate in the Lower House on asbestos together with the SZW Secretary of State, this was also discussed. I know that she also wants to see whether it should remain that you only have one such body, and whether you should look a little wider to avoid the risk of a closed market. That, I believe, is the risk that Mrs Klip is addressing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u44	I share the comment about Ascert from the VVD side. Do you not think that it is wise that in such a difficult dossier, with such great social and financial consequences, state supervision should be provided under any name rather than Ascert? 'Cause you're actually asking about Ascert the impossible. They have to control their own market, they are their own boss and there are huge social interests at stake. Do you have any idea how to improve that by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u45	I understand the question very well and also the dilemma outlined. This is really up to my colleague from SZW, but in the debate we have had together, I noticed that she is very well aware of this dilemma and that she is also actively thinking about it. Let me not anticipate her portfolio, but I may be able to give this as a comfort. So we are going to look at the possibilities of innovative working methods. To this end, studies are now being carried out on the extent of exposure in specific circumstances. That will be completed this year. The study is conducted under the guidance of IenW and looks at and makes clear whether the amount of asbestos fibres released remains under the statutory limit under certain conditions. If the legal limit is not exceeded, we are of course looking for methods where that is the case, then it becomes possible to remove the roofs. This is already covered by a simplified regime, the so-called risk class 1. This will not be subject to certification. The simplification for the specific circumstances examined can be implemented in practice rather shortly after the outcome of the study. There is no need to adapt legislation to this. So before the end of the year, we have an idea of what kind of procedures could be implemented under the simplified regime. They can therefore be applied immediately and they do not need to be incorporated into legislation first. If the limit is exceeded, a partial certificate could offer another solution. This may take a little more time, but that is still different from the fact that you need a full asbestos certificate to carry out work. That is what we hope to achieve in the market. In the direction of D66 I say once again that innovation is also absolutely in it. These were the points about market capacity, but I believe there is still a question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u46	If we are talking about market capacity, we have just been presented with an image of asbestos remodelling, but in practice it has also proved necessary to store asbestos. You just described that as being under concrete, but I know a lot of situations where asbestos is simply dumped or dumped in landfills. When you talk about innovative measures, you should come up with solutions at the end of the chain. Perhaps you can go into that, otherwise there will be little point. You can get it certified off a roof, but then you put it on a dump and it blows, it spreads again. Would you care to comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u47	No, of course, because then we'd get in the rain, just to stay in weather terminology. Of course, it is very important that we get an inventory of where the asbestos is. A national asbestos tracking system is going to keep track of where the asbestos has been repaired and where it has been taken afterwards. In addition, the landfill is excluded from the waste levy. Individuals are allowed to bring it for free if it's packed. Then it will be taken free of charge at the landfill. On all these points, too, we must ensure that the system is correct and waterproof. Some of you referred to State Forestry. That signal is not known to me, but we will certainly discuss with State Forestry about where they will see a possible risk of leakage. Indeed, if we carefully remove it, then we must also ensure careful processing afterwards. There too, all parties cooperate well with each other. Mr. Chairman. If we look at the cost side, we have just established that it is related to the capacity in the market. We will see if we can increase that capacity through simplification and innovation. If you have a certain picture of the cost picture, we are talking about what to do with the funding possibilities. I'll get to that later. But first, about the cost. A number of you have said that costs are rising. Whoever knows the most about that, VERAS, has also looked into it. They see a bit of an increase in costs, but not a radical increase in costs. Of course, there are always examples of here or there, but they give an average picture and I would like to join with that. On the other hand, it is also important to give us an account of what it means when you have a house with an asbestos roof that you do not clean. I would like to give you the example of Lelystad, the district of Tjalk. I asked the Land Registry for an example of what can be seen from the selling price of houses. Now you see that the effect is yes or no? That's a nice example of a neighbourhood with a "Funda" that stood on exactly the same houses, where the selling price varies between €170,000 and €175,000 and is not repaired between €125,000 and €150,000. Of course, there must have been a slightly nicer bathroom in one of them than in the other, but if you put a few houses together, you can really see that there is a difference between them. Of course, that makes sense, because if you buy a house yourself and you know that there is asbestos in it, you will have to think about the cost of clean-up. You're gonna take that in the price you're willing to pay for it. This is only going to get worse in the years to come, because you know that these roofs are getting more and more resistant, which may increase the risks and increase the cost of clean-up. So the risk that this will have a greater impact on house prices is something that we must of course include in the solution that we can offer people who might otherwise, in twenty years' time, be in a situation where there is no help and where the problems, including the financial ones, have actually only gotten much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u48	If dealing with an asbestos roof does something about the house price, has the Secretary of State considered what its impact could be on the autonomous clean-up? 'Cause I can imagine if you, as a homeowner, have the money you think it's better to do it, given the value of your house. Did you think about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u49	At the autonomous pace of the clean-up, of course, this kind of thing is included. You're assuming that people in the economy make certain trade-offs. But what you see is that the people who are actually hacking into that investment and wondering if they can afford it out of their small savings are not going to get it. Those people will be left with a problem that they cannot solve themselves. The step I would very much like to take with this Chamber is whether we can help those people from the disadvantage they are in to a plus situation, in which you get them off the asbestos roof and in which we make a link with sustainability, which also reduces the energy bill of those people. We do not leave people with a house with a roof that means substantial depreciation, because they cannot get a loan because they cannot be eligible for it from the banks. We are talking about these people, and we could help them with the system that we could actually put together, coupled with this legal basis. I shall deal with this later. It is also good to have a picture of the costs we are talking about. Sometimes the amounts go all the way. It's good to know what we're talking about. Reconditioning costs approximately between €9 and €30 m, depending on the size of a roof. The removal of an asbestos roof is about 25% more expensive than removing a normal roof. Because at some point, you normally have to replace a roof, just as well as you might have to change your window frames. Everyone knows: if you have a merchant house, you have to take into account maintenance at your home at some point in time. Of course, the roof is always a major cost, which we all postpone as long as possible. We could show that kind of behavior at that kind of big expense. But if you look at the extra cost of removing an asbestos roof versus a normal roof, you can see that that saves about 25%. Of course, when you set such a deadline, we ask people to remove something earlier than usual. But then it is important to know that all these roofs are already at least 30 years old and we are 50 years after the peak in delivery. So that means that for a lot of those roofs that moment when something has to happen is getting very close, or actually has already passed. Of course, prices per metre depend on size and circumstances. Some of you have referred to the slate roofs. That is indeed a specific category, a small group, for which it is indeed more expensive. So there are indeed situations where you can say: here is a specific problem. We must pay particular attention to this, so that those people do not feel that they are simply caught in a trap. So we have to do this through customization and support and with a programme-based approach, through coordination, through the programme agency, through a national fund. These are points I would like to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u50	I hear the last comments made by the Secretary of State, who says that we are going to support the owner/inhabitants with asbestos slates, the problematic cases. You said the same thing in the House of Representatives. But I hear from that side the very pragmatic question of what amount they can get. In my first term, I proposed that this should be linked to what has happened in the agricultural sector. How do you feel about that? Are you willing to offer a subsidy in the form of around 40% of the costs for that category of housing in the Netherlands, we are talking about an estimated 5,000 homes in the Netherlands? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u51	The money we spend, of course, is always taxpayers' money. So you have to make sure it ends up with those people who really need it. Accross the board I see this group as a group that really has a lot harder time than the other homes, because the cost of this is just higher. I am not in favour of saying quickly that there will be a general 40% scheme, but what I do want to do is to ensure that the fund we have pays particular attention to this group. If this group needs something extra, there is also extra money. I have a budget of 5 million extra available for asbestos rehabilitation, which comes on top of the money I have available for the fund. I really intend to focus on those specific cases in which we ourselves see that the fund in the scheme in which we have it fits very much in there if possible would not provide sufficient outcome. So I want to bet on that, because I cannot rule out the fact that, besides this group that we now have on the retina, there are other cases that would just fall between shore and ship if we didn't have some kind of hardship pot. I would like to leave it to the person who manages the fund, the Dutch Housing Foundation, specialising in assessing what you can and cannot actually ask of people, to assess whether an additional contribution is needed. But I'm putting extra money aside for that. 'Cause I get the concerns, but we shouldn't be giving subsidies to people who don't need it, so we have money for those people who really need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u52	I can hear you using the words "suitable" and "program agency." I am not talking about the money, because you have answered that question. But all the individuals we talk about, written or in person, I never really hear about that programme agency. Is that working yet? How massive is that working already? We read that it is there, but in practice we do not really hear so much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u53	That program office is there, absolutely. This is also aimed at achieving that common approach. If the ban is in place, a further acceleration will occur. Then I would like to further strengthen the programme agency, among other things to support municipalities in, for example, a district-oriented approach. Because what you want is for people to be taken care of as much as possible. That program agency will not be able to send a consultant to everyone to ask what it means. But we need to make sure that information and support is available in all kinds of ways, on the one hand through a very good campaign, with very clear what you do and what you don't. A question in between, I think, Mrs Fiers: if asbestos is weathered, even under 35, then you can't do it yourself anymore. Then it's just dangerous for your health. This is also the case in the Netherlands, as in Belgium, in the same way. However, I understand Mrs Klip's point that she is actually saying that this programme agency should be given a little more emphasis to ensure that the direction, as requested by the ambassadors, is strengthened and people know where to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u54	My question was above all: is it already in operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u56	Are they doing anything yet? That was somewhat invisible to our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u57	They're in business. Mr Rob Ekkers of the Contact Group Owners Asbestos, says that the houses with asbestos have now been stigmatized. They're worse sellable, the value has dropped, and we have to get rid of it, he says. That is why we want it to continue, but under conditions that make it feasible. Then we could get rid of the asbestos problem in these houses in a good way. That's the representative of the people who own a house like that. With him, I just told you, we really want to look at the way we can do that. Mrs. Klip was still talking about price increases. I have just told you what the industry itself thinks, but we are also going to keep our finger on the pulse. In the half-yearly report we will include information on price developments. There are also factors that reduce costs, such as the exemption from the waste tax on asbestos-containing waste, which started on 1 January 2019. On the other hand, this is a reduction in costs. Another question had been asked by Mr Koffeman about compliance with the rules for the healthy removal of asbestos. My colleague from SZW is the ruler for this. She's on top of that, of course. In the policy response, the Secretary of State also mentioned the strengthening of this enforcement, because of course she is absolutely committed to healthy work. Then there was a question from Mrs Baay about insurance. Maybe we can't make insurance compulsory otherwise, but insurers themselves determine the conditions under which insurance is taken out. They can't even agree to this. It is, of course, a sign that the market needs legal clarity. Let us then help the people affected by this movement in the market to get out of this difficult situation. That is what all my efforts are aimed at. Mrs Stienen asked: what if the roof in Roermond that eventually caused so much nuisance had already been repaired? In that case, a lot of cleaning costs would have been saved. We haven't talked about that much. We are now, rightly, talking about making the costs for the individual owner bearable, but if the fibres end up in the environment, by weathering or fire, they become a social problem. Then they are much more manageable and then the costs are very high. The cost of the incident in Roermond was about 3 million. That was specifically asked for. That'll be one fire. That comes on top of the uncertainty that people in that environment are exposed to and wondering what effects it had on them. In that case, the cost of replacing the roof will probably have been several tens of thousands of euros. I don't know the roof specifically, but it must have been in that order of magnitude. Only a quarter of that is what you pay more on an asbestos roof compared to a normal roof. Mr. Chairman. Those were the answers to the questions relating to costs. Then I'll join the fund, because there were a lot of questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u58	I'm still trying to get a more concrete picture. Someone, let's say, a farmer with a barn has several hundred m to repair. That couldn't even be much. I don't know. On the one hand, it has to do with insurers and banks saying that there will be a ban and therefore no more insurance or funding. So there's gonna be a cost. In this case, therefore, this farmer could have to deal with a programme agency. He may be advised by the municipality and may rely on loans. In the end, that amount will have to be paid. What good is a program agency like that? What's the use of a municipality, which might at the same time charge landfill costs? What kind of loan could he get? You mentioned one type, namely a loan that he would have to pay only if the property was ever sold. Maybe there are more types. Could you paint that for a case like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u59	Yeah, sure. If you have a good farm, you also know that you have to replace your roof at some point. For a good company it is therefore perhaps just part of the modernisation of your stable at all, which concerns you and where you also take the roof with you. In doing so, you may immediately ensure better isolation or better climate control. There is a group of farmers who have a clear future and can take this into account in general financing. Then, of course, there is a group of farmers who may have a business operation that is at its end or with very little margin in it. If a farmer has to rely on the fund, then there are still different forms of loans within that fund that either have a very low refund or indeed a refund at the end. It is up to the Dutch People's Housing Foundation to see how they can ensure that the costs associated with this loan are bearable in that situation and for that company. It can even be a solution sometimes. We all know the images of the empty sheds that are no longer being used, where the company has already stopped and where you might be sitting with a collapsing barn that needs to be demolished. So that can also be taken with you. It therefore sometimes even offers a solution for companies that no longer have the possibility in their regular business operations to cope with this. There is one last possibility I would like to mention. I find them very hopeful and was also mentioned by one of you. Energy companies invest in them. They approach farmers, especially those with large roofs, to remove their asbestos roof if they are allowed to put solar panels on it and get the efficiency of it. There are therefore already concrete initiatives in the market throughout the process of sustainability which give this roof surface a value that can be repaired by asbestos. So there are a number of concrete examples. The tailor-made loan and the cash-flow are already covered by the fund in a very concrete way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u60	Thanks for the answer. It sounds good. At least it sounds careful that all situations are carefully looked at. However, there can still be poignant cases that cannot be financed in any way out-of-pocket or in the future. Is there also a hardness clause for the really poignant cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u61	I have just given this answer to Mr Ruers. The ban is the basis. On the basis of the ban, we are making a state contribution, and on the basis of that ban and that state contribution, other parties are also prepared to put money into that fund. This creates a fund which is thus given into the hands of the Dutch People's Housing Foundation, with the State contribution intended to take into account the risk that some loans will not be repaid. The fund therefore takes this into account. That is an extra layer of guarantee for the risk that some people might not be able to carry it. Deletion is therefore part of the fund. In addition, as I have just said to Mr Ruers, there could be specific harrowing cases that we have not foreseen. That is why I would like to put another side to it, which can, if necessary, make a contribution on the basis of subsidies. I would like to do that again on the basis of co-financing with the municipality or province. Maybe we can make a link with subsidies for sustainability. In this way, we can join forces with the people who are in the ultimate disadvantage. That is what I said to Mrs Fiers... immediately with them to make their roof more sustainable and to reduce the energy bill. That's what gives people the air. In that combination I do indeed foresee a special game for the really poignant cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u62	I have two questions about funding. I had the impression the Secretary of State was finishing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u63	I'm still getting into funds. A number of questions were asked specifically about funds. I have already answered a few questions in between, but I just got to the other questions about the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u64	I will ask those two questions, and then I will leave it to the Secretary of State when she brings them into her answer. The first question about financing concerns the possibilities for companies to invest in their business through tax and operating costs. Perhaps the Secretary of State could give up some further and more specific information. The second point concerns the example of Roermond. In my first contribution, I specifically asked if the Secretary of State could give an overview of similar incidents that occur every year, according to my total intuitive assessment, two, three, perhaps four times. If you do that times 3 million, it's about high costs. Now I'm doing a lot of wet fingering and that's why I'm asking the Secretary of State for a more specific overview. If you weigh social costs against the sometimes difficult costs that individuals or companies have to incur, that is a very important point for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u65	I would like it to be as little burning as Mrs Stienen said. There are about 180 fires a year when it's released. They are not all equally large and not all lead to 3 million in costs, but it does indicate that it really is a risk factor, which indeed also involves high costs that you naturally avoid when you clean up in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u66	Following that, I have the following question. Secretary of State says there's a lot of fires every year. We also see them come by a lot. Is there any intention to develop policies to increase fire prevention, especially in companies that have asbestos roofs and do not remove them yet? This could encourage, if legislation is introduced, that those farmers, which are often involved in this case, are more willing to replace those asbestos roofs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u67	I know the request of the Party for Animals, from their wide involvement in barn fires, of course. My colleague from LNV is indeed very keen on this. You want to avoid imposing an obligation on people first to take a measure in a stable while they then have to clean up the asbestos roof. This may also be a nice hook for the point differentiation, but I will say a little more about it later. We were just talking about the harrowing cases. There may also be cases where you say that it is obviously unreasonable to ask for that clean-up at the moment, for example when it is about to be demolished, for example because fire prevention measures are being taken in the context of renovating that stable, while the roof is going to be cleaned up two years later. Another example is that a clear sustainability plan has been implemented in a district in the context of the agreements of the climate agreement or the energy ambitions of the municipality. My goal is to include in the AMvB an exception for the municipalities, for that kind of apparently unreasonable cases, which are related to demolition, renovation or sustainability, in order to avoid forcing people to make an uneconomic investment, exactly around 2024. On the other hand, there must be a clear plan when it is realized, so that we do not create some kind of open end. I intend to work out that margin for a reasonable decision, at a reasonable time, in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u68	If a bill has been passed with an end date, what consequences will it have for liability? You have a stable with an asbestos roof and it burns and the asbestos spreads all over the area. Does that have any consequences for the liability of the person who hasn't repaired his asbestos roof?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u69	I shall come back at the end of the block to the question about the liability that Mr Earthema, I believe, had asked in the context of the municipality. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Stienen asked who is eligible for a loan from that fund. In principle, everyone can claim a loan through the fund. That is perhaps a good example that I thought: we still have some kind of hardness spot to provide. There could be people who shouldn't legally get a loan because they're in bankruptcy or debt restructuring and then there's a rule that you can't take out a loan. Then we have to make sure that there is a way that those people are not hanged on the one hand by that ban and on the other hand by the ban on taking a loan. These are the kind of cases we're thinking about. Mrs Stienen also asked about the VAT refund for entrepreneurs. Indeed, that is also an opportunity to help entrepreneurs make investments. Then the fund. We've reached an acceleration, and I want to hold it. I also want to ensure that people who cannot get access to a regular loan and who would not be able to clean the roof without support are able to do so. This path follows in general the approach that has been successfully implemented in a number of provinces, so in fact it is also a best practice that we continue. We do that together with the municipalities. As requested in the von Martels/Ziengs motion, my ministry is working with the People's Housing Fund and the local authorities on this fund. This will therefore provide loans to people who will not be financed in any other way. At the end of June, I want to establish the fund with the delegates of all provinces and banks. Then I formalize the foundation of the fund in a decision. This will allow the public authorities to participate formally. The first loans are expected to be available soon after the summer. We really want to make meters with this fund at a very fast pace, even for those people who are having a hard time. I have already mentioned that I want to use 5 million for distressing cases and to enable acceleration. I have also mentioned the specific concerns about asbestos slates. I mentioned customization and the cashing out. There are all kinds of different types of loans, with repayment at the end or whether or not interest payments. A lot of people look at what someone can wear. Then the question is to what extent it has been mapped out. The programme agency makes the asbestos map online and indicates that 75% of the municipalities now have it in view, so about 90 municipalities are not yet only 270, so we are really far away. As part of the programmed approach, I will, of course, encourage the municipalities to complete the inventory, because you do want to know where it all lies. The national map is constantly updated so that we have that insight. In addition, we keep track of where asbestos comes from and where it is located, so that we can keep an eye on these flows. Mrs Fiers specifically asked me if I can see the size of the group that we believe will not be able to afford. That's about 5% to 10%, according to the estimate that's been made. We have also had a second opinion on whether the size of the fund is sufficient to provide that group with a solution. The answer is yes, so the second opinion was positive. I will come back to this later, because in the evaluation I think this is a very concrete point to check whether the fund actually meets the concerns of those people, whether we can meet them sufficiently and whether their size is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u70	The Secretary of State says in response to colleague Fiers: 5% to 10%. What is the reason why LTO is so firmly opposed to this bill and also indicates that she thinks she still has 80 million m on different premises, among members and others?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u71	This is one such example where I see that LTO has said very different things. I mentioned all the quotes made by Mr Smeenk, a while ago, in 2015, I think. He argued in favour of looking at the risks that to a large extent fall to farm families, because there are a lot of rooftops, even without gutter, where the fibers are literally in the front yard. We all know that once they lie there, it becomes very difficult to control and so there is a great risk of you walking them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u72	I take all these concerns very seriously. We've done an inventory, and it comes out that the picture is that there's 80 million left to clean up. That is the image that we now have and that is validated by the inventories that are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u73	It's kind of hard to have a discussion about who's the spokesperson for LTO. As a Chamber and in the hearing, we are dealing with one party and he has provided these figures. I believe you, but we are dealing with those who have given us this information very recently and have not been contradicted by anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u74	Yeah, but it's kind of complicated for me, too, when you talk to one person and say that's the only one I have to go after, because I'm based on the inventory that's been done in all the provinces and lots of municipalities. That may be a difficult situation for both of us, but we need to make our point of view on what we want to base ourselves on. I base myself on the inventory that is done throughout the country and on the advice of the Health Council and RIVM, and of course there are always different sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u75	However, a little clarification on that percentage from 5% to 10%. I think I recall that the technical briefing on this 80 million m said that the estimated funding of 20 million m might be problematic. I have interpreted that as 25% and not the 5% or 10% mentioned, so please clarify that figure. Is it taken into account that some people cannot get a loan at all, or that for other people, the costs of repairing the roof are a significant percentage of the wealth or income they have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u76	Thank you for this question, because it is very good that I can clarify that. I said it a little more broadly, so it's good to clarify that. I had interpreted the question as an insight into the size of the group that can't afford it. That's about 5% to 10%, so we'll take into account that there's a group that can't afford it. So that is different from whether there is a larger group that might want to use the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u77	Mr. Ruers still at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u78	I mentioned in the first term that, according to my information, the agricultural sector has all kinds of financial advantages. I mentioned those arrangements. It emerged from this that around 40% of the costs of agricultural operators are covered by these schemes. Do you think that's true? I have received this via-via, including from the House of Representatives and from people working in the agricultural sector. They were very proud to have achieved that. That seems to me to contradict what LTO is saying, so I would like to know what the real situation is and whether you would like to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u79	I think it is very difficult to give an average for all companies, because of course the exact costs also depend on the roof and the conditions, such as the extent of weathering of the roof, which can have an effect on the precautions to be taken when cleaning up. Across the board 40% is not a number of which I can make a very clear sum. It is true that in recent years, in order to achieve this acceleration, there has been a subsidy pot of EUR 75 million and a number of people have been able to rely on it, in addition to being able to apply the VAT deduction and the like as an entrepreneur, thus creating a more favourable situation to do so. As far as I'm concerned, the situation now stands. I have the fund with which I can help the difficult cases and a specific pot with which I would like to give extra support to the really poignant cases, in addition to what is possible within the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u80	About 5% or 10%, because eventually you come to a percentage with some assumptions. What assumptions are under which to establish that someone can or cannot afford to pay for it? I also hear you saying that a second opinion has been carried out. Is it possible that we can see that research in order to see what foundations are underneath it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u81	Of course. I'd like to be willing to do that. We are now forming the fund and are making all the information about it transparent. We have chosen the Dutch people's housing foundation, because it is ideally able to make that assessment. They do that in all kinds of other ways. Just to be sure, we had a second opinion on the volume of the fund, because we wanted to make sure that we got what we needed about each other. That's what the second opinion saw. For the rest, the fund looks like it is designed by the Dutch people's housing foundation. We are prepared to be transparent about that. I think I've answered a lot of questions on this point; sometimes they got in between at a different time. Then I'll get to questions that were there about care and facilitation. Sometimes I don't know in which corner I've already named the communication campaign. Mrs. Klip and Mrs. Baay had asked for this. How do we ensure that people are not surprised by the fact that there is a ban and are not surprised by the fact that action is needed? There will be this ban and they will need to know where the fund is and how to use it. People also need to know what they can do themselves, how to deal with it and how to deliver it to your environmental street free of charge. I would like to say once again to this Chamber that we will be carrying out a communication campaign for this. Another point that is going to be very important in the approach is that we really want to actively help municipalities with such a district-oriented approach through the programme office. A very nice example of semi-detached houses was mentioned earlier. In addition, a district-oriented approach from the people themselves is difficult to achieve, because it takes a lot of time and energy to achieve this. Perhaps there are people in the neighborhood for which it is particularly difficult and for which no loan is currently available. It is very logical that a municipality in such neighbourhoods should play a major role in ensuring this district-oriented approach and that there should be a programme agency that can support a municipality in it. So, that campaign needs to be strengthened and the programme agency needs to make it stronger on points such as the district-based approach. Mrs Klip asked if there is any possibility of differentiation for the moment that asbestos needs to be removed. If we don't be careful, maybe that's the so-called traffic light model that also came along in the hearing.We're going on a path where a lot of money is going to be spent on assessing the state of the roof every time, which costs about €300, instead of cleaning the roof. Then you'll lose a lot of extra money and it means a lot of enforcement for the municipality. And in the end, we still need to get cleaned up. It increases the cost of both controls and enforcement. I have already said that, from the point of view of efficiency, there will be a logical moment for the renovation of the roof for a limited period after the ban has entered into force. I have already mentioned demolition or large-scale renovation for which a permit has already been applied for from the municipality, and a district-oriented approach aimed specifically at repairing asbestos slates or specifically at a major sustainable operation. People should not be asked to trample their homes three times in connection with a renovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u82	I understand that if you chose three categories of the state of health of a roof, or two or five, that would cost money. I mentioned that the difference between a seduction strategy and a punishment campaign. You are, I presume, also in the process of creating support for your policy. In spite of all the arrangements, there must also be support. The risk-driven restructuring is the underlying idea of my group, although it costs extra money, we understand that. Then there's my other question. You are talking about logical moments; we have talked about this a few times. That could be anything, and you're willing to work it out in an AMvB. In our view, this should at least provide attractive financial arrangements from other programmes, but it should also provide additional time. Now, I understand from your point of view, in defending this bill, you're not saying, well, just 2050. But what deadlines do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u83	Let's just say the nod 2025 goes in. If there is demolition, large-scale renovation, district-oriented approach in the context of asbestos or district-oriented sustainability, then you want to make sure that if you grant a postponement, this will also be done. So there really has to be a plan that will be implemented. I would then like to be a little cautious in offering a lot of time for that, because then there may be an endless delay and you will not get the concentration that is needed. I would think of a term of about three years. Then you keep concentration of all the efforts and also the use of funds, resources and people. You maintain the acceleration and focus, but at the same time you offer a little more space. 2028 was also included in the last year's accounts in the SMEA. That's what you're gonna join. The municipality and the province are of course very important partners. In addition to funding, I would like to say once again that information, knowledge sharing and care are also important elements. Then there was an important question from Mrs Fiers about the 35 m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u84	Are you going to wait for that answer, Mrs Fiers, or do you want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u85	No, this was about the direction of the congregation, because I believe that block is now ready. In the hearing, a number of parties stated that precisely this role of the municipality is conditional on successful implementation. At the same time, we were all looking forward to the representative of the UNG sitting there: what is he going to say? It was a bit of a wrap around that, because it can of course never say 'we are going to do that' for all the municipalities. Then my question to the Secretary of State. Shouldn't you pre-order with congregations that they're gonna play that role before you implement the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u86	The law provides the legal basis for then an AMvB. Without law, there is actually no reason to enter into the conversation with the municipalities, you could almost say. They have a task we are faced with. By the way, municipalities already have a job to do. They have a responsibility to act when dangerous situations arise. Now all municipalities can do is punish. Soon we will be offering municipalities a toolkit with solutions that we can make sure that in those cases where it is not self-evident, we can help to bring it about. This means that with the whole package that we are putting together here, we also have more to offer municipalities to say together with them: let us now make sure that it is dealt with. It's a bit of a chicken egg situation in some cases. Municipalities can play an important role in supporting citizens in forming collectives. In such a district-oriented approach, they can then ensure that those who really can't afford it are properly connected to the fund, so that the whole can go on. Municipalities can also support with funding and communicate with. These are all important points. Mr. Chairman. Then the 35 m. It has been established in such a way as to reduce costs for individuals. That 35 mis determined by TNO. Mr Ruers asked for this too. It's just that under strict conditions. So it really must still be bonded asbestos: no slate and no sail, for example. You can't do all that. It shouldn't be weathered either. On the website of Environment Centraal there are also very good examples: "If you are going to remove, what should you look for and what precautions should you take? Pack it in plastic, then you can turn it in to the environmental street." A private individual can't just do everything. And that border is actually just chosen to keep the cost to the private person within limits, and so that it doesn't have to fly in a few lunar men for everything, like the roof of a bicycle shed. TNO therefore advised that that limit should be set at 35 m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u87	You can make an assessment based on the safety risk. So you say: it's 35 m, because if you go up to 60 m, then the risk suddenly increases many times. Or you can make a trade-off in relation to the wallet. I assume TNO doesn't make the relationship with the wallet, but that's a weighting that belongs more to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u88	Of course, of course. The question has been asked to TNO to ensure that we do not unnecessarily cost people in our policies. And TNO said: 35 misses a limit that we say people should be able to do it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u89	One more question. Can the Secretary of State just explain to me in jip-and-janneketal why it's not 100 m?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u90	Then I should ask TNO to explain that in jip-and-janneke language, because we have asked them, the experts, to give us that advice. That was a while ago, by the way. I can look back to see if the foundation of that 35 m is still in easy jip-and-janneketal. I am concerned about this kind of thing that it is extremely important that you have independent advice from real experts. And they indicate: this is the border we advise you. The same goes for the 28 fibers. That too may be explained in jip-and-janneketal, but it is especially important that this limit is determined by independent experts. In this case, therefore, I fully rely on the advice of TNO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u91	Maybe for the second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u92	Finally, Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u93	Yeah, finally. I have the request to the Secretary of State to try to do so in the second term, because when we agree to the law, we are also addressed outside by people who ask us: but why 35 m, because I have 50 m? And I'd like to be able to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u94	I understand that very well, and I'm very happy to see if we can do that. I told you it's an advice from a while ago, but that too should just be brought out. So I'll do my best to do that. Then there is the issue of illegal dumping of waste. That was a question, too. I've already said something about that. I'm going to have a specific conversation with State Forestry to see what they're worried about, and how we're gonna make sure we keep it tightly closed. I have no broad indications that illegal dumping of asbestos waste is more common than before. That may hopefully be reassuring, but of course we all think that every dumping is one too many. The Rural Asbestos monitoring system, together with the Landelijk Meldpunt Waste, can play an important role in monitoring flows in the asbestos chain. That Rural Asbestos tracking system also makes it really harder to break the rules. The companies that use the Rural Asbestos monitoring system, the bona fide companies, will not dump asbestos either, because they must be able to prove where it has gone. So together with the supervisors, we can make sure that the net is closed. By doing so, we discourage criminal behavior and otherwise we effectively tackle it. For I agree with your Chamber that we must also ensure that it is not only quickly and expertly removed from the roof, but that it is then processed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u95	I actually have a combined question to the Secretary of State. It is about waste, illegal cleaning, but also about the level of information that exists in the provinces and municipalities on the number of asbestos roofs. That's what that's all about. I came up with this last year when I heard from the province of Limburg that they were actively working to get a picture of where the asbestos roofs were now. Then they told me that two or three years ago they had aerial photographs taken of the whole province, which depicted all the asbestos roofs. It seems to be very good from the air. They then compared that to photos from two years later. They made that comparison and then found: there are so many roofs away, on those and those and those places. I understand that the province of Overijssel has also undertaken such an operation. So they could see exactly what disappeared from rooftops. But they could also see at which locations that was. And then they checked with the municipalities and asked them: "Are you familiar with this reorganisation? If so, where did the waste go?" Then they ran into quite a percentage of what the municipality said: we don't know anything about that. And so they had a strong suspicion that there was illegal demolition and therefore dumping. Could that be something to watch from the government? For example, the government can order all provinces. It seems to be very effective, and relatively cheap and fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u96	I am indeed familiar with the example, because I have also made a very nice work visit to the asbestos ambassadors in the context of the preparation of this bill and its handling. This was also the launch of the Rural Asbestos tracking system. We have seen some wonderful examples of innovative technologies, but also of this system. Since 1 January 2019 the landfill tax has also been reduced, so that also reduces the incentive to just throw it down somewhere, so to speak. That is, of course, very important in the context of the acceleration and the great task we still have. So I am indeed familiar with the system. In any case, I will make sure that we take this explicitly into account in the further roll-out of the Rural Asbestos monitoring system. We need to keep a close eye on each other and see where it might leak. Then Mr. Atsma would have asked if the legal definition is sustainable. Well, the scope of that legal definition is clear. We do not allow Coating under the Products Decision asbestos, which prohibits the processing of asbestos roofs. Coating in foam during remodeling is possible, because that protects the employee. And to be even more precise in the direction of Mrs Stienen: in 2018, there were 172 reports of fire in which asbestos was released.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u97	Let me ask you a question. The Secretary of State states that coating is not allowed. I also referred in my first term to the comments made by Mr Ruers on what can and cannot be done in the case of asbestos. And the moment you talk about "asbestos under pans," that's okay. So the moment you have to replace pots and there's asbestos underneath, isn't it allowed? 'Cause you're saying you can't put a coating on asbestos plates. But that is perhaps a temporary solution for many companies, but it is a solution. So you can't replace any more pans or reeds when it's really necessary? For that is why I said in advance: what about if you look purely at the legal sustainability of the explanation that you now give us through the answer to the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u98	Look, based on what the law says, you can't work asbestos roofing, so there you have the link to asbestos roofing again. We have given a clear definition of this. And it's that roofing you're not supposed to work. Therefore, that coating should not be authorised. I would also like to point out that such a coating does not mean that the problem has been solved. The roof's still not gone. So you still keep keeping the same problem of the traffic light model. Because you have to check every time that coating is still good. What certification body would then have to assess whether this coating could be a solution to prevent the release of these fibres for what period of time, whether or not? We know that it is a solution that can help to protect workers, for example with foam, in order to clean up the roofs. But now I have no reason to see it as a permanent solution not to have to clean the roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u99	But the Secretary of State doesn't think reeds and pans are loose on an asbestos roof, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u100	The ground is not the roofing and the ban concerns the roofing. The prohibition concerns the prohibition on the treatment of roofing. An underlay is not a roofing. I think I have answered a number of questions again. I'm gonna come up with the last one. Maintainability. There is a need to keep costs manageable and to avoid price rising by trying to increase market space. It will then remain affordable for many more people. Thanks to the fund, the instruments and the approach, it will be feasible, even for those people for whom it would be difficult to afford. Now, finally, we're gonna get to enforcement. Of course, it falls or stands with all the steps that come first. As you make it easier to run it, the part you have to maintain, so what remains, remains smaller. This is an important contribution to enforcement. Furthermore, it is important that in the current situation it is up to municipalities under the Housing Act to maintain on buildings that cause a danger to the environment. This is an unexecutable task for municipalities at some point, if you are not careful. The CDA asked for a review, roof for roof. This means an assessment on a case-by-case basis and therefore a lot of uncertainty for the owner and the residents and the possibility of legal proceedings. Without the ban, enforcement will be classified differently in different places and may result in arbitrariness. For residents it is difficult to have weathered roofs dealt with. I mean, a step to the judge is just a really big step you'd rather not make. The ban prevents this ambiguity from leading to heavy burdens. From the date of entry into force, there is no longer any discussion about the degree of defence and the risk. All asbestos must then simply be removed from rooftops. I say to D66 that everything is now precisely aimed at removing the asbestos roofs before the ban enters into force. With that common approach, you'll try to get there as soon as possible. The ban itself will be maintained by municipalities and provinces from 2025, subject to the exception category which will be clearly indicated in the AMvB. Hopefully we will have cleaned up so much that little need to be maintained. Together with the VNG, IenW is also working on a plan to deal with enforcement on the basis of a motion submitted by the SP Group in the Lower House on this point. Then there was a very concrete demand for the review in 2020. The question was whether I could indicate very specifically what some of the questions would be now. The PVV and D66 asked for that. What will the evaluation address? What buttons are we looking at? The main question is, of course, whether we are on course or whether adjustments are needed. That is actually the main question, but of course you want me to be more specific about it. I understand that very well. We need to look at the pace of the clean-up. I want to see whether the differentiation is well in sight, so the possibility of demolition, renovation or sustainability, and whether there are plans for that. Do we have the idea that this is being used or should I postpone it? Half-yearly we are also going to keep track of the price developments in the market, as I said, and the capacity in the industry. And all these things together are linked to the question of whether the size and structure of the fund is sufficient to accommodate those cases where it is difficult, so as to enable them to experience that reorganisation. So we're going to see if all these different buttons in the system are working properly or if anything else is needed. It is still asked: if there is to be maintenance, what can the municipality do? They can use the instruments of the General Administrative Law Act, i.e. a warning, administrative penalty, penalty payment and administrative coercion. It's asked if a community should evict people at some point. I think it is very important to say that this is not the case. The municipality can still order to clean up. Then there is the question of how the costs will be recovered. But no people are being evicted as an ultimatum remedium to enforce this ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u101	The Secretary of State was very quick to answer the question about the elements that will be included in the evaluation. It indicated that the fund would have the character of an agreement with different parties and that the outcome of the evaluation could be that the fund did not meet the objectives or that the groups that should be helped could not have recourse to the fund. Given the nature of an agreement, I wonder: if such things come out of the evaluation, what are the resources the Secretary of State has to change the organisation and size of the fund and possibly the conditions attached to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u102	Of course, that is what we should discuss. All those parties that participate in the fund do so because they feel responsible for those people who normally cannot get it out of the market. Since we have shown our willingness to put a considerable amount of money into this fund and have thus committed our common intention to help this group, it provides all the ground to enter into the conversation about what is needed to adjust the fund so that it will work if it does not prove sufficient to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u103	May I ask how much longer you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u104	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked, but these are, I think, the last two. Mr. Ruers has asked another question of a slightly different order. He said that the borders were wide open to products containing asbestos. Products containing asbestos are prohibited within the EU. When asbestos is found in products, such as recently in children's make-up jet grit, they are removed directly from the market. I remember one Tuesday night I suddenly got a report on the possibility of asbestos fibres in children's make-up. Then, together with the inspector-general of my department and the inspector-general of NVWA, I really sat at the office all night to send a letter directly to the Chamber and to ensure that asbestos was removed from the shelves. So the boundaries are not open. We're on top of that. The NVWA monitors consumer products. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u105	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u106	Could we take a five-minute break?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u107	You want a little five-minute suspension? I'll take a look at the room. Agreed? Then we'll continue at 4:30. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u108	We will continue to deal with the legislative proposal 34675, removing asbestos and products containing asbestos. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u109	Madam President, thank you very much. I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State for her very comprehensive and structured response. You've done an incredible amount of homework lately. This also applies to us, but certainly also to you. Thank you. I would like to say a few more things, but first I would like to return to two questions raised by the VVD Group, to which you have replied a little incompletely in our view or have not yet arrived. One is about the review in 2022. This may lead to additional measures. You have indicated that we are looking at the whole set-up and that can be at any point. However, I would like to repeat my question: what additional policy measures would you consider? In principle, this is 2.5 years before the final date of the proposed legislation. Our other question was the following. This bill also allows for the availability of all kinds of products containing asbestos. You indicated in your reply that you do not intend to do anything about the possibility offered by the legislative amendment for the time being. I indicated in my first term that I believe this immediately, but that it is, of course, a temporary reality in political life. So would it be possible for other AMvBs to be discussed more broadly with the First and Second Chambers on this issue? Madam President. The Secretary of State said we're doing it in a way that anyone can experience. My group is very pleased with that, because once again, we see more temptation than punishment. We are talking about a period of at most 5.5 years. The inventory of all the roofs isn't ready yet. The Secretary of State talks about about about 70 municipalities. The extension of the certification market is not yet complete either. The point is that parties other than Ascert alone could also be certified and controlled. The differentiation of the risk class will be completed by the end of this year. The programme bureau deserves backup, so you indicate. The fund comes into operation in the second half of the year. You have made an important commitment, namely that if you could link it to logical moments, you will think of about three years delay if you submit a plan for that. I repeat that the VVD Group supports the final objective of this bill. We understand that any roof covering containing asbestos could pose a danger to public health at some point in time, now or later. Yet we would still like to hear from the Secretary of State, with all the answers she has given: how do you come up with really attractive financial arrangements so that you seduce people? We still lack in your detailed answer a little the logical coherence and the logical intervention, swallowtails or whatever you want to call it, of all those different aspects and the changes that still have to be made. Another question that I am asking, but which I am asking on behalf of some of my fellow spokesmen: if, say, this legislation would not go ahead, will the fund remain in operation in order to be able to pursue the policy of stimulation, the policy of seduction? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u111	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Secretary of State, who has indeed done a lot of homework, as my predecessor has done. In my view, we agree on the purpose of the legislation: the source approach of the asbestos roofs. The central question here is: does the end justify the means and is it feasible? Affordability plays an important role in this. In this context, I would like to raise five points in this second period. First of all, this is the Negligible Risk, which the Secretary of State said we know about in several areas. That seems to me to be a logical starting point. Then there is the question: in which areas will you then actively pursue policies to bring it closer and in which areas will you not? When I was alderman in Eindhoven and had to deal with external rail safety, it was said, for example, that safety standards do not apply at a station, because there are many people there, and there we will not get that risk reduced. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to zoom in on that after all. I still have a big question about the effectiveness of this law when it comes to the Negligible Risk. I hear the Secretary of State say that if we do implement this law, it will come closer and if we do not implement this law, it will get further away. To be honest, I think that is very important generalities when it comes to this kind of legislation, where you still have a big cost to the inhabitants. I'll be right back on the amount. In the second term, I would like the Secretary of State to respond to our questions about these dumpings. You said a few words about it, namely that you do not currently have any signs that there are more dumping. But the question to the Secretary of State is to reflect on the question: what if the law has been introduced? That's when people come at high costs. Does it suspect that there will be more illegal dumping after all? So it is not so much about the situation now, but about the question: what does it think the effect of this law is on that? In the interrupting debate, I have already talked to the Secretary of State about the 35 metres. I'd like to explain why that's the border. Finally, mathematics has never been my best point, but I'm going to try and see if the Secretary of State can count on it. We read in the SMEA that the cost of the reorganisation, assuming it is 80 million m, amounts to 1.6 billion. I just heard the Secretary of State say in the debate: we have to take into account that about 20% is asbestos-related. The rest is due to the fact that a roof has to be replaced. So we've got asbestos remodeling, but you're not with it. Then I'll do that times five and come to 8 billion total costs. I just heard the Secretary of State say: we assume that, let's say for convenience, 10% of the people can't afford it. Then I come for the people who can't afford it at a cost of 800 million. My question to the Secretary of State is: haven't my math lessons paid out now? So we have a cost of 800 million and there will be a grant of 5 million. Can the Secretary of State reflect on that again? To what extent does that amount of 5 million really help the people who can't afford it? That's it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u112	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u113	Mr. Chairman. We're standing here a week before we say goodbye to this Chamber. I think it is particularly important to have this debate with a few colleagues who have last participated in the debate. I like to call two of them by name. First of all, Roel Kuiper. 65 times? What a number, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I'm ever gonna make it here: 65 times in the debate. What we have achieved together is a great many moments of wisdom between all the debates. I would also like to thank Mr Kuiper on behalf of my group. Thanks also to Bob Ruers for the special input into this debate. I can remember that during the expert debate one of the speakers, who even expressed his opinion on facts, made a rather sneaky remark about politics and science. Sometimes certain scientists need to do a little better homework on the academic background of the MPs before they come to the expert meeting. Mr Ruers has shown this very nicely today. For the D66 Group, it is very important that there should be a hard date for banning asbestos roofs. I think there are sufficient reasons to believe that there will be dangerous situations if we do not. Prevention is better than cure, it seems to us. I was shocked by the number of 180 incidents a year. Are those fires, are those explosions? What are those incidents? I think we need to have more insight into this, because it may increase the acceptance of people who have questions about the usefulness and necessity of this bill. I can remember from the aftermath of the fire in Roermond and the evaluations of the fire in Roermond that there has been social unrest for weeks or months. The question of whether you've been infected because of an incident in your neighborhood, we need to be able to answer. But we must also be able to answer the material and intangible costs for society if these incidents could have been prevented by an asbestos roof ban, which would have reduced the risk. We therefore call on the Secretary of State to consider these incidents in the evaluation if this law is passed. We are therefore not concerned with the weathering of the roofs, but with the costs of the incidents. Finally, we believe that the Secretary of State has responded carefully to our Chamber in the various written rounds and also in this plenary debate on the feasibility and enforcement of the proposal. We are pleased to hear that she also has a real eye for the concerns of individuals and entrepreneurs who may be in financial difficulties because of this ban. We appreciate her commitment to set up a special fund if a hardship clause can be invoked. I think that as a Chamber we still need some clarity about the differentiation between the fund set up with the provinces and the other possibilities that exist. The Secretary of State mentioned the number of 5 million. I'd like to hear exactly where that is. Finally, I intend to advise my group to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u114	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I don't see Mrs Baay. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for her generous reply. I want to keep my second term short. I can agree with a number of critical questions raised in the second term by my colleagues Fiers and Klip. I am thinking here of the evaluation: what can you do after 2022 if we are not on course? I am also thinking of the critical questions about dumping. For the rest, then, I come to my group's conclusion on the legislative proposal, which concerns the main line that I have tried to outline in my first term. Public health is extremely important. With public health interests, you can't skip, you have to take them extremely seriously. At the same time, however, you can also make a serious benefit and cost balance in public health. There is the big problem, because the benefits, the so-called health benefits, are not there, or they are so small that they are not measurable. This is partly due to the fact that asbestos in the outdoors is not really a real risk at the moment. So there are no serious steps to be taken at all. At least that is not what is happening with this bill, is our assessment. There are very high costs on that. As far as we are concerned, proportionality and feasibility have been lost. That is why the SGP is very sceptical about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u116	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Green Left Group for the comprehensive reply of the Secretary of State. As I said in my speech, one of the complexities of this discussion is that the experts disagree. I had to think about the evenings when I am watching Nieuwsuur or Pauw and as a simple politician I find everything that is said by self-appointed experts about political parties, election results and so on. We also see in this debate that the boundary between expertise and the representation of interests, or the question of who should or should not call themselves an expert, is not always clear. In this respect, I am following the Secretary of State in the way in which she puts the advice of the Health Council in particular. The debate has shown that the ban on asbestos roofs is as close as possible to what we can do to prevent risks. If you want to do it right, then a ban, I think, is the only way to deal with it, as I indicated in the first term. I absolutely believe that encouraging, facilitating, directing and so on could be desirable in many ways and in all kinds of policy areas. However, on a number of points, choices are so fundamental that a ban is probably not only the most effective, but also gives the most clarity to those concerned about the time limit at which it is being discussed and about the scope of the mandate that awaits them. I'm left with a few questions. The picture of the number of municipalities that have a view of the asbestos roofs appears to be a bit more positive, although the website of the acceleration approach still covers 96 municipalities whose data are not available and 77 of which the data may be available but have not yet been made available via the map. In the context of visibility and familiarity for residents of the municipalities concerned, we should also encourage them to do so. The second aspect is the affordability, feasibility and organisation of the fund. I would like to know for myself what the overall scope of the fund is, also in relation to the amounts mentioned by Mrs Fiers and which seemed to me a little on the very high side. What is the state's contribution and how does the 5 million mentioned relate to the state's contribution to the fund for the distressing cases? Will that amount of 5 million be made available on an occasional basis or will it be made available each year? Is it intended that the fund should follow the duration of the ban, so that it should end on 31 December 2024? Or could the delay offered by the Secretary of State in conjunction with demolition and sustainability, thinking of a three-year period, lead to a possible extension of the fund's duration by three years? Other questions were about certification. I'm left with a slightly variable picture about that. On the one hand, it seems to us that it is dangerous work that requires specialists, but up to 35 m you can still do it yourself as a private individual. Perhaps the Secretary of State will come back to this in the context of TNO's trade-off once, but it is a bit unusual. Especially as space is being sought in the market and changes in the certification system are being looked at, with other providers who could do it, there is a bit of a changing signal of how dangerous it is actually to come into contact with this asbestos as a private individual. In short, the most important thing I and my group want to think about over the next few weeks is this. If we really want to do something about asbestos, in line with the ban and the fight against asbestos roads, we need to tackle these roofs now. In the meantime, we want to respond to all kinds of different interests and ideas, with the fund, with exceptions that are possible for the combination of demolition and sustainability, with a different arrangement of certification and with the question of who could do it. That total picture of the law, the question of how all these measures relate to each other and bring the intended goal closer, I think is still a puzzle. Perhaps the Secretary of State can say something about it in the second term, because it is a dilemma that I would like to think about and talk to my group about in the next week. The individual measures have their own inherent logic, they have their own basis and they are based on specific questions that have also reached us. However, the question I would like to raise is whether the whole of it leads to the most efficient and feasible approach to asbestos removal. So far in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank those Members who are beginning to speak kindly. I'd like to give it back. I have always experienced the debate in the First Chamber as something very special. We are still trying to look over the parties together to see which arguments are really good and sustainable. This requires a kind of collegiality that we practice here with each other, and which I found just as expressed in the words of Mr Stienen. I think that makes the First Chamber special, and also a very commendable part of our parliamentary system, no matter how it develops in the future. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed answer, care and depth in detail. My group is convinced that we should go this way. It is, of course, also a road that has been going on for a long time. A line has been set from the initial responses to that report from the Health Council. I think it's important, also administratively important, that you maintain that consistently. The various Cabinets have built and worked on this, and now you have to continue this line as well. I am also saying this in the direction of groups that may still be thinking: how should we proceed? There are health risks, no matter how you feel about them. I think we've heard enough about that now. We know that those resistant asbestos roofs are a source and we need to tackle them. We know that those roofs are 30 to 50 years old and that their owners will have to do something with them at some point. But now, indeed, the "how." The Secretary of State also said: there are a number of modalities. I would actually like to join with the questions of the VVD colleague. We've heard a number of things. There is still a lot of flexibility in that "how." There is the possibility of self-efficacy. People can do something themselves. That's probably what they want, too. 'Cause how's that going? When you have a contractor on the floor who says it costs this and that, you sometimes ask: what can I do? If you do it yourself, it'll cut costs. So the more people can do it themselves, the better. The Secretary of State also talked about the role of roofers and about that certification. Especially in a market where the price is pushed up, it is very important to have that valve at least. The Secretary of State also talked about easing implementation and giving more time when there is a good plan. She also told us that her colleague from SZW is also working on this. How are we going to materialize all this in this debate? That's the question. Could that still be written, so that it is quite clear: that and that are the steps now, and that is not just a plan but we are really going to do so? That is also the offer on this day to the owners, who of course watch and think: where is it going? They want security. That is my specific question. What good are all these suggestions that sister can do or something? I would like to make a firmer commitment on this. I come to that assessment of the risk when individuals remove themselves, and that TNO advice. I actually have the same question as a few colleagues. Not alone, as Mrs Fiers says: how could I explain it? But also: why couldn't it be 100 m, or 200 m? That's how you help people. It has to be justified, of course. There's one more question I haven't answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u120	Are you thinking about your time, Mr. Kuiper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u121	I see here I have 50 seconds left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u122	No, you're in the red for 50 seconds. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u123	Oh, the numbers have been red all along. Anyway, I'll finish soon. I asked the Secretary of State to speak with the provinces about a level playing field. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. I don't want to get any deeper in red.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Time is hard for MPs here. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed and intrusive presentation. She has gone into a lot of detail; I think that is very good. I know you have a lot of support from your staff, but I also think it is very good that you brought it all to us in a few hours. I admit that a number of things have been moved forward and come later because there was no other way. Yeah, I get that. I heard speakers say before me: I am not convinced that this is the solution for the asbestos roofs in our country. I understand that, and there may be doubts. But on the other hand, we also know that if we don't do this, we do know what we're getting. Then we get a lot of problems, human problems, social problems, huge costs, uncertainty. We're sure of it. I therefore think that this is just the best thing; if there are no better methods, we should do it with this. I think we should establish for the time being that this is the best solution, with all its limitations. In that case, there must be good maintenance and so on, and all the conditions must be met. That's gonna be quite a job, I'm sure. I made a slight mistake at the beginning. I said that this renovation of the asbestos roofs is actually the first collective scheme we are going to apply in this country. This is not entirely true, because the problem of asbestos has led to a clean-up scheme in the House of Representatives in 1999, but for soil. It was about the bottom in Twente, in a radius of about 40 kilometers around the Eternit factory. What was going on in there? Eternit had waste from the production process for various reasons, but also for cost reasons. That was to be dumped in the landfill and paid for. But one could also give away the garbage. Eternit did. That played out in the time that there were still a lot of sand roads in those villages around Goor. Farmers could harden roads with that garbage, harden the yard. They lined up at Eternit's factory on Saturday with their flat cars to brag about that free asbestos waste, then brought it to their country to harden the roads with it. Many also kept an extra supply at the edge of the barn. In those years, until the end of the 1970s, hundreds of roads and heirs were covered with asbestos waste. We'll see the consequences now. I just spoke to someone I know from that area. He is 72 years old and now has meosthelioma, because he used to play as a child on the yard where Eternit's garbage lay. For example, there are a lot of children who have played in those garbage heaps, and who die 30, 40, 50 years later. Terrible! So this reorganisation scheme has come to fruition. But there was something special about that. There's been three rounds. Each time that went with a number of millions. Somewhere in the documents mention a figure of 150 million, but I have already calculated that society has spent more than EUR 200 million to clean up these asbestos roads. And there are still reports from that area that new sources have been found. That garbage ended up everywhere: in gardens, in houses, everywhere. It cost 200 million euros, according to my calculations. And who paid for it? The polluter? No. The polluter, Eternit, has paid zero. We all paid for that together. I think that is a very sad observation. The principle of environmental law is always that the polluter pays. I have often asked the government why this polluter does not pay, but I did not get an adequate answer to that question. But it has been a happy reform and a great deal of good work has been done on it. Now we have this arrangement. I think it's acceptable and necessary. My third question is, of course, when does the government intend to find a solution to all that asbestos that is still in society, everywhere and in all possible places? People can get in touch with that. Is there any intention on the part of the government to take a next step when this is done? How do we get the asbestos out of all those houses, buildings, factories, etc.? I'm curious about that. I come to another aspect, Madam President. I see I've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u126	You've got five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u127	Here we go, 5.5 minutes. The Secretary of State made a number of interesting comments on the fund. For example, she says that there is an additional fund of 5 million available for special groups. I understand that this 5 million is specifically intended for the owners-inhabitants of houses with asbestos slate roofs. If that were the case, I'd be happy to. But it's probably 5,000 houses. 5 million will probably be too small to meet all these people, because it's not just about the costs and it's very little. If this 5 million is specifically earmarked for this group, the next question is to the Secretary of State what it will do if it turns out in practice that the 5 million is too little. Is the government then prepared to look with an open mind at the deficit, and to fill that deficit, so that we should not say halfway to the rest of the owners: you do not get it? In that case, I have a motion for a resolution which I would like to table. The President shall: Mr Ruers, Mr Köhler, Mr Stienen, Mr Koffeman and Mr Binnema proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certain improvements, such as in particular the renovations for the owners-inhabitants with asbestos slate roofs, are unbearably high for these owners;]] [[Whereas other interested groups have been entitled to state subsidies for the cleaning of asbestos roofs, whereas owners of asbestos slate roofs are not entitled to comparable, adequate subsidies;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the owner-inhabitants with asbestos slate roofs with an appropriate State rehabilitation subsidy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34675-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u128	The motion is therefore intended in the event that there is no such solution, or that the Secretary of State looks at it differently than I have just indicated. That is what this motion is for. That's what I'm saying. I hope that the motion does not have to be tabled because there have been sufficient guarantees and commitments. Finally, I would like to comment on a point on which I do not agree with the Secretary of State. I said that the front door is wide open to importing products containing asbestos, even today. I have seen this a number of times in practice. The Secretary of State has said that it has intervened following the reporting of, among other things, the Asbestos Victims Committee on asbestos in children's make-up, jet grit and so on. But I also gave her the example that in 2019, within the company of Tata Steel, the import of gaskets containing asbestos has been considered and that Tata Steel has decided to purchase them indeed, now, this year. This means that asbestos is simply imported and such companies also use it. Then the Secretary of State says it's not true, but it's true. It's just used and it's not justified. What are we going to do about it? I would like to hear an answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u129	I would like to ask Mr Ruers the following. Now that there are such offences as are found here, I wonder whether they have been reported. It is difficult to ask the Secretary of State for action on the basis of the information provided by Mr Ruers. At the time of the report, it seems to me to be an issue that is becoming much more tangible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u130	I'm gonna report it to you on one side. I'm asking for something from the government. The declaration against Tata Steel, which is indeed ready, is part of that. Finally, I can say that we welcome the legislative proposal, with all the limitations it has. I welcome the many commitments made by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for answering our questions. I would also like to thank Mr Ruers and Mr Kuiper for the pleasant way in which we have debated in recent years. It is a pity that it has ended after today, but thank you very much. We welcome the Minister's commitment to a generous interest-free loan, with an equally generous hardness clause. Is the Secretary of State prepared to clarify that hardness clause, possibly in a letter? Does the Secretary of State recognise the problem that many people have difficulty in taking loans, even if they are interest-free and even if they have extremely pleasant conditions? Has research been carried out on the behavioural impact of subsidies versus loans on the pleasant conditions which the Secretary of State has in mind? And does the Secretary of State also see any agreements with the scholarship and the loan system, which is also being discussed in this house today? The experience of converting a stock exchange into a loan is not very positive. I'd like the Secretary of State to reflect on that. I have missed the answer to my question about the provinces and regions that have not yet made a risk inventory in relation to access to the fund. The contributions that have been made today on proportionality and the questions that have been asked about it weigh costs against risk. That's very difficult in matters of life and death. In this context, my group would like to call on the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament to give a slightly broader pro-life concept in this context. Does the Secretary of State recognise that a postponement of the ban on asbestos could make the government liable to endanger itself and that this would lead to a debt of honour which could justify a more generous policy of compensation and compensation? Can the Secretary of State also state that Mr Ruers referred briefly to the fact that Eternit was not simply addressed to the risks caused and maintained by the will and knowledge and that Eternit's staff worked without protection, that people died there? Has such a charge of death by guilt been made in any way by the government to Eternit, or has it never happened? If that didn't happen, why didn't it? Following on from Mr Stienen, I am curious about the nature and seriousness of the 180 annual incidents mentioned. Can the Secretary of State undertake to discuss with her colleague at LNV better legislation on fire prevention in stables? Not in order to incur costs prior to clean-up, I can very well imagine that if you are going to clean up next year, you will not be able to take fire prevention measures now, but at least to make a link with such a clean-up. If the renovation of roofs in official arrangements can be linked to the installation of solar panels, this should certainly be the case when linking them to fire prevention in stables. This doesn't happen all the time. Maybe the Secretary of State can reflect on that, too. I wish the Secretary of State every success in the clean-up plan for the elimination of asbestos in the Netherlands and the calculation of its costs in the most equitable way possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Koffeman. I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u134	Madam President. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the many questions. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De CDA-fractie heeft nog een paar aanvullende vragen over punten die wat ons betreft in de beantwoording onvoldoende zijn meegenomen.]] It is good to note that it is difficult to get involved in a discussion about who has spoken on whose behalf. We spoke at the hearing about Aedes and LTO. We may have also talked to individual different delegates who have individually re-spirited a different story, at least some of them, than the IPO. So let us simply stick to the official documents of the organisations; that is the most clear. The Secretary of State said that without the law, the asbestos roofs will not go away. That seems to us to be relative, because shortly afterwards the Secretary of State said: if it is an autonomous process, it will take about 2045. But if I've misunderstood, I'd like to hear it. Let me come back to the statement that without the law the asbestos roofs will not leave. Then why are the first 40 million m repaired? It is precisely because of the rather pleasant incentive arrangements created here and there, whether or not by the government, municipalities, provinces or others. In this sense, I agree with Mr Fiers, Mr Klip and others, who have stressed the importance of continuing the promotion policy in the broadest sense. In the first term, I said that the low-hanging fruit in particular was picked, so it is becoming more and more difficult. However, I am convinced that if the arrangements are good, there are still companies, entrepreneurs and private individuals to seduce. But I do not think it is right to say that, by definition, asbestos roofs do not disappear without this law. I would say that the practice of the last six years contradicts that, because at that time 40 million m has been rebuilt. According to the LTO, we still have 80 million m to be repaired. At first I asked: is that it now; do we have sufficient vision of the number of square meters that still need to be cleaned up? I am convinced that in other sectors too there are still a lot of m which may not have been shown. That is why I repeat my question to the Secretary of State whether she can give a better look at it. If everything is literally visible from the air via the helicopter view, I dare to doubt it. The Secretary of State made the suggestion of differentiation in time and perhaps by municipality. You can discuss the time frame it should ask. You spoke of 2028. You can also talk about 2030, 2040 or 2050 and a link to the Climate Act. You could also link it very specifically to solving the problem in Groningen. That may not be put in time at the moment, but it is clear that a solution needs to be found. My question also focuses on the fact that differentiation by municipality may create very new problems with insurers again, just to take a side step that has come through. I would like another response from the Secretary of State to the question whether that type of differentiation by municipality does not make the insurability of a number of objects extra complex. In short, the CDA Group would like to put a number of questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u135	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Do you have the opportunity to answer directly or would you like a short suspension? Oh, wait a minute. You don't have a microphone right now. Short suspension? Ten minutes? - Quarter? - Yeah. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. Then I hope you can give your answers in half an hour, Secretary of State, because after that we have another subject that has to start at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u136	We will continue to deal with the legislative proposal 34675, removing asbestos and products containing asbestos. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much to the Members for the first-term questions that I will deal with. I'm going back to 2012, to the letter from Secretary of State Atsma, who says: "I want to reduce this source of asbestos in the environment faster than in 2044. I choose to ban asbestos roofs and façade coverings at 2024, because we are then more than 50 years after the peak in the seventies of placing asbestos roofs. The total economic lifetime of these roofs is 30 to 50 years, depending on the sector." Mr. Chairman. The reason for submitting this bill is the following. In fact, many parties have worked on this. The Labour Party has also worked hard on it with various directors. The CDA worked hard on that. Now I'm allowed to defend that here in your chamber. They have always assumed that these roofs are old. We all know that weathering and therefore health risks increase with aging. It is important to say that again in the context of the statements of the Health Council. I understand very well that there are questions about the relationship with the Health Council, which said: strengthen source policy. The recommendation of the Health Council was: take it to a negligible risk. How can you do that? By strengthening the resource policy. What is the last, largest source after the asbestos roads, to which reference was made, and which we have previously repaired? This is the biggest, last source. We know there's a risk that those roofs will age themselves and the risk will increase. So we'll get further away from that negligible risk. The Health Council has therefore recommended that the source policy be strengthened. Then there's one source we can address. Those are rooftops. We know exactly where they are. The SMEA talks about some 250 people's lives. There is talk of 10% to 12% lung cancer. Those are the groups you're talking about, the risks you can avoid if you continue to address the source policy. And I've said it before: we literally know where that source is. 75% of the municipalities have a very precise map. In anticipation of answering a number of other points, my intention is to try to get a map of all the municipalities before the end of the year. We literally know where those roofs are. I have heard many groups say that they support the purpose of this law, namely to improve public health. But they're wondering if we're making it feasible and affordable. Actually, Mrs. Klip said, can't we do it without the law, just with that fund? That's how I interpret her question. But the fund provides support for the less active so that no one gets into trouble. If there is no law, there is no basis for such a fund or for parties to contribute to such a fund. That's gone. There's no date, no deadline. So what is the date for which you must have fixed that and what is the reason to contribute to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u138	Let me ask you something. You could just make a fund with provinces and municipalities without that law, right? You don't need this law for that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u139	But if there's no obligation to clean up, what do you need that fund for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u140	Stimulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u141	Well, that could be an opportunity to stimulate. That is true, but there is no obligation, so you cannot say: we link that fund to an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u142	No, no, but for a moment I thought I understood that you said, "I can't do it." I guess it's not that crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u143	No, there are funds in all kinds of places, but the foundation for such a fund disappears. A majority may believe that there is no reason for such a ban and that you should use such a fund to make it possible for people to do it before that date. When people ask to replace their roof a little earlier, that's a reason to say you're going to help them. But if no deadline is set, then a little bit of the basis for putting these resources into it will disappear. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Klip asked how to achieve attractive financial instruments. Through cooperation with local authorities to various instruments, including that fund, through an acceleration approach and by focusing not only on finance but also on process support. In a number of provinces they have worked very hard on this. Then you see that this collaboration in the direction of "we're really going to clean it up together" helps. Outside the fund, too, I am willing to engage in these talks with banks, for example with the banks that are also participating, about: if you are sustainable, can you also ensure that those people can immediately take that asbestos restructuring with them in the loan they then take on? So I say to Mrs Klip that I am certainly prepared to enter into that conversation. She also asked very clearly what additional policy measures you could take if you did that evaluation in 2022 and if you still have sufficient scope for action. I understand that question very well. Those policies must, of course, focus on the fact that you first want to understand where we stand with regard to a whole range of these different buttons. But in addition, they are of course aimed at a further acceleration. If you think it's left behind, how can you speed it up even further to make it feasible? This could include more support for municipalities, further strengthening of this directional role and further sustainability initiatives, but also, for example, in the size of the fund. It is also possible to look ahead to a later point: whether the hardness clause is sufficient for the really poignant cases and whether the deadline you have set for implementing the measures relating to demolition, large-scale sustainability and district approach is correct. That's about the points. So you can adapt to that if we want to do so in order to make it feasible. Mrs Klip asked if there should be more certification bodies. There are now two institutions that certify companies. Ascert is not a certification institution, but manages the schedule and can make proposals for the schedule. SZW determines whether these proposals are accepted and can also make text proposals itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u144	You were just talking about the evaluation moment. You're gonna look at the pace and the state of things. I don't like the "what if" question, but it comes up a little bit now, because I think it will turn out that especially the difficult objects and the priceless objects move towards the end. I think everyone is a little inclined to put it out for themselves. Is it possible, then, that you are going to move the date, the deadline, to the rear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u145	I said I think it's very important that we... Look, if we have a deadline, we also have a point where I work with each other. I also said that I think you should make sure that you do not make an unreasonable choice for people, for example if you have a renovation plan that falls just a year after. Then there is a plan and then it is clear that it is going to happen. I have also indicated what is about the deadline I am thinking of for the margin that you might still be able to offer. If you do that evaluation in 2022, this is also one of the points I would like to focus on. For example, the preparation of such a district-oriented approach also takes time. I would like to point out in the AMvB that the municipality may make an exception on this point if it would prove that you did not achieve this on 1 January 2025, but on 1 January 2027. That is different from what Mr Atsma suggested, namely that there should be a kind of total freedom for each municipality to determine when the ban applies. No, the ban applies from a certain day, late 2024. In the AMvB I will describe these exceptions very exhaustively, so that we avoid arbitrariness and make it clear that there is an exception, but then there must be a plan. I believe that this meets the point made by Mr Earthema and that on the other hand this avoids some kind of arbitrariness and a great burden of enforcement. That is what Mr Atsma was afraid of in his interpretation of what this might look like. Mr Van Dijk asked about the obligation to clean up asbestos shelters. It's not exposed to wind and weather. There is therefore no obligation to remedy this situation, not least because of the lack of transparency. What about the method of alternative processing? I had indicated that that was another question from the first term. In July 2018, I sent the Dutch Parliament two studies on the possibilities for alternative processing, such as building a factory in Delfzijl to process asbestos-containing steel scrap. With the help of incentive schemes for innovation and investment, I want to help these innovations further. Mrs Fiers asked about the 35 m of TNO. It has been established that 35 m is the average number of square meters of asbestos in a household. This has apparently been an important reason for TNO to draw this up. As a result of the questions raised in this debate, I am going to ask TNO if they see any reason to set that limit differently. Mrs. Fiers says, does it really matter if it's 40 m2 or 45 m2? I will ask whether this is possible within the framework of security, which must of course always apply, because if you are allowed to do it yourself, we must have an estimate that it is safe to do so and whether TNO sees reason to fix this limit on a different number of square metres. Then we are still talking about individuals, because we want to try to make it as easy as possible for people, within security limits. That is how I understood Mrs Fiers' question. Then I'll get to the dumping. Mrs Fiers says: you have no cause from the past, but what about the future? I said I'd definitely talk to State Forestry to see what signals they have. I am also certainly looking at how we can make the best use of the national asbestos monitoring system, which is an important tool for this. I mentioned the fact that it can be delivered free of charge to the landfills and that it is not covered by the landfill tax. Those are all things that contribute to making it easy to turn in legally. We need to close that loop as best we can, so I'm also going to talk to State Forestry about their care. Of course, together with provinces and municipalities, we also keep our finger on the pulse. Mr Binnema asked, now that 75% is in the picture, whether it means that 25% is not yet exactly in the picture. I would like to tell him that it is my ambition to know this before the end of the year for all the municipalities, although there may always be one municipality a little later. But I really want to make sure that we have clarity, because everyone has to get to work and then you have to be the first to know where it is. So I'm gonna speed it up so I can get those inventories around everywhere. Mrs Stienen asked about the costs of the incidents. The costs of incidents have been taken into account only to a limited extent in the SMEA. They can be very different. I gave you the example of the 3 million in Roermond, but also in the Westland there was a figure of 3 million, so that is getting worse, especially if they are large companies or incidents involving large companies. Then there's a lot of secondary damage. You asked for some insights. We will ensure that, in the progress we report on this dossier, we also provide insight into the nature and problems of the incidents, so that this can always be seen in the context of what we do and what we do. Mrs. Fiers asked about the costs. She was talking about the fund: is that really big enough when you look at the size of the fund we're talking about? The SMEA you are referring to has been updated. The cost of the updated estimate is around 880 million, i.e. about half of the 1.6 billion you were talking about, which came from the previous SMEA. This concerns the cost of replacing all roofs, not just the extra costs for asbestos. You're making a multiplication, but actually, we could go to a division. That means that if 25% of the 882 million.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We expect that 5% to 10% will not be able to repay it. This is also provided for in the fund. Next to the fund with loans we have another game. If no solution can be found within the fund, for example because of the slate roof problems or because people are not allowed to get a loan because of bankruptcy, then we can help them with that jar for the poignant cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u146	This is a new SMEA, because the SMEA that we have all seen has been updated, but it has raised a cost of 1.6 billion to the end of 2024. I'm starting to get confused. Is this a re-updating SMEA or just updating the ones we have all seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u147	It is the updated SMEA, which compares the additional costs of the legislative proposal versus the autonomous situation. So it's about the difference. That's where that comes from. Then the measureability of the health effect. I have just indicated that, with all the uncertainty involved, the SMEA has suffered some 250 casualties and lung cancer. These are all reasons why the Health Council advises to tighten standards, strengthen the source approach and ensure that you get closer to the Negligible Risk. All these cases have been weighed by the Health Council in 2010. The Health Council has just said again that they see no reason to amend their advice on this matter. Mr. Chairman. There was the legitimate question of GroenLinks whether the duration of the fund also corresponds to the end date. It is important to have clarity about this. Of course. We will ensure that, where we see the possibilities of joining a logical moment, for example because of demolition, renovation or sustainability, the fund can still be used until that date. Cases should not be excluded from the duration of the fund if there is a delay in using the reorganisation at a logical time, otherwise it would end on the prohibition date. So we will ensure that the fund is involved. That is the issue of the loans. The loans themselves will, of course, run much longer afterwards. Let me add this for the sake of clarity. Mr. Chairman. I will finish the question first and then I will finally come to the motion by Mr Ruers and others. I'd like to come back on the slate roofs, the $5 million. It is important to point out that I see all kinds of opportunities in the market for all kinds of people to finance, but we know that there is a group for which this is difficult. That's what the fund's for. We also know that there is another specific group for which it is even more difficult. In order to prevent people from falling between shore and ship, we have specifically the 5 million. Then I come to the other asbestos issues. You have to clean up asbestos when you're remodeling. When asbestos is a risk, you also need to clean up. These guarantees are thus already in place, outside of this ban. Mr Kuiper asks if I am going to talk to the municipalities for a level playing field. Yeah, I'm gonna do that, of course. At the end of June, I will again talk to provinces, municipalities and banks about this fund in order to achieve it as soon as possible. We are talking about inventory, of course, because we want it by the end of the year. In the meantime, we're just getting started. So it is also important not to say that everything has to wait for everything. No, we're busy, but that fund will of course be important for those who can't get to work right now. I will also press for even better sharing of best practices to enable municipalities to share with each other. I have already mentioned the strengthening of the programme office and the communication campaign. As regards Tata Steel and gaskets containing asbestos, I say the following: if it is a violation or an environmental offence, it must of course be dealt with. But it is already forbidden, of course, and that is the policy that the government has already taken. I find it difficult to judge from here whether there is a crime in this case, but if so, we have the judge to judge. Mr. Atsma asked about the 40 million that's already been cleaned up. Yeah, volunteering and stimulant is part of your goal. But the prospect of the ban, which has been known for a long time, has certainly played a role. The ban is necessary to solve the whole problem. So it also provides the basis, the foundation, for the fund to ensure that those taxpayers' resources that we allocate to that end reach the people who really need it. I think it is always a good principle to ensure that we grant or support those people who need it. That fund is really being set up in such a way that the tax resources that are needed for this end end up there too. Mr Atsma asked about the role of insurers. Some insurers are already asking for a clean-up plan. Then Mr Koffeman asked about the hardness clause. I hope I've just explained that clearly. We have a fund that is really meant for all the people who normally cannot get a loan, because, for example, they have a very small disposable income. For example, their wealth is stuck in their homes or they cannot pay the charges of a loan or its redemption for other reasons. We use that fund to help those people get rid of the problem, while otherwise they would be left with it. So we really want to use the 5 million extra in addition to the fund to ensure that, in those cases where that fund is not yet a solution, a solution can be found. We really want to keep people from falling apart. The combination with sustainability is of course very nice, because you then help people from a minus to a plus situation. If you can make sure that these people have not only replaced their asbestos roof, but also have solar panels or at least an isolated roof, that also means a lower energy bill. With all this together, you can make much more possible for many more people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u148	I told you, math isn't my strong suit. I'm gonna try again. I have here the modified SMEA of January 2015. I think that's what the Secretary of State is referring to. I'm going to quote a little bit from that: "This will cost the owners of the buildings in which asbestos has been incorporated extra money, in total around 1.625 billion euros (net present value 2012) extra compared to the autonomous cleaning of the buildings." This means that there are additional costs in relation to autonomous cleaning. Now I'm curious about the math. I'm still looking for that 10% of the people who can't afford it. I'm trying to get an insight into that. What if we say to each other that there should be a ban in the law and that we should be concerned about the people who can't afford it, how much million or billion should a solution be found? So I would very much like to get an explanation from the Secretary of State for this, as I do, or else in a letter, because we are very worried about the people who can't afford it. How big is this group? What kind of amount are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u149	The figure I refer to comes from page 5 of the same SMEA. It actually looks at the transfer of compliance costs and the burden of regulation for citizens. The social costs are the extra costs resulting from the ban in the bill. That is the difference with the cost of the zero alternative. 'Cause if we don't do something, there's gonna be costs. Only, then we have nothing to help the people. That's part of the argument, I think. In the table, the updated SMEA, we therefore take the adjusted figures as the basis. The total social costs are 882 million euros over the whole period. So that's the amount we're talking about, the amount that this bill adds to the zero scenario. We expect about 25% of the funds to be used. That is what the fund is set up on, including the expectation that some will not be able to repay it. We have asked Stichting Stimulingsfonds Volkshuizing Nederlandse Gemeenten to give an insight into how big that fund should be. We also had a second opinion on that. That second opinion confirmed that this fund is of sufficient size to cover the expected demand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u150	Then maybe we didn't get each other right. So for those 5% or 10% that cannot pay it, you are talking about the fund and the loans. Well, then you're not talking about the $5 million and a fund-raiser for extra emergencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u151	Yes. That's what I've been trying to tell you. The State contributions in this fund are also intended as a kind of guarantee for the other participants in this fund. We know we're gonna give loans to a group that's just hard. Part of it, 5% to 10%, won't be able to pay it back. So we're gonna be the first to use the rich money to cover that loss, because you know that sometimes this group won't succeed. The estimate will be that it will work. That's how a loan like this is issued. But we know there's a risk. That is then covered with the means put in from the Empire. That is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u152	And the loan will then be granted to clean up asbestos and replace the roof?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u153	Yeah, we don't leave people without a roof. The replacement was definitely included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u154	I just heard the Secretary of State say something about taking care of the people and the finances. I understand it's called $5 million. I just heard you explain to the Labour Party how this fund works. I would like to zoom in on that group of 5,000 owners with asbestos slate roofs and the amount of 5 million extra you mentioned. Just so I'm clear, is that $5 million meant for that group? And if so, if it turns out that it is estimated that about 5,000 people in that group still lack the 5 million, are you prepared to reconsider this and increase the amount? Or do you say, no, they're gonna have to do it with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u155	With blank cheques you should always be very careful, both in this house and in the other house. The fund is actually a multi-buffer solution, you might say. There are, of course, all kinds of funding opportunities in the market, but that fund is really intended for people who are unable to make use of it, for whom it does not produce any results, who cannot pay the difference with the selling price because of their daily costs. That's what the fund's for. People with asbestos slate roofs are, of course, also eligible for this. For part of that group that will be a solution. The 5 million is really meant to come to a real solution if the fund is insufficient and if the Stichting Stimulingsfonds Volkshuizing Nederlandse Gemeenten says that, with everything she can do within that fund, she does not come out for that homeowner. That's what that jar's for. So that is not only for people with asbestos slate roofs, but I mentioned this group because it is very clear on the retina as a group for which costs are different from the other asbestos slate roofs. I have also mentioned the example of someone who is in bankruptcy and is therefore not allowed to take on a loan. That's one of them. I welcome the fact that the Stichting Stimulingsfonds Volkshuizing Nederlandse Gemeenten has a game with which we can see if we can help people of this kind in a very targeted way. I also said that I would like to look at the evaluation in 2022 to see if we can estimate that this amount of 5 million will be sufficient for the hardship. This is not about the kind of amounts that make a huge gap in the budget. I would therefore like to see whether this is sufficient for that specific group, in addition to all the other measures in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u156	Fine, thank you for that explanation. We now know from the cases of asbestos slate roofs that the cost per home is between €20,000 and even €40,000. Of course, that's the problem: if I share that 5 million-dollar pot a little bit, I'll have about $1,000 per house. So that's not gonna be the solution. So I am glad that you are now saying that I am going to deal with this in this way, and I will have the opportunity to look in the meantime, for example in the course of this evaluation, to see if there is anything else that needs to be done. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u157	I think that in many places the fund could also be a solution for these people with this problem. It's really meant for the harrowing cases. It's really $5 million for poignant cases. I mentioned the asbestos slate roofs in particular because we see earlier that this might be the case. But I leave that assessment to the Dutch people's housing foundation, because they have all the expertise to assess what we can already do within that fund. I mentioned the cashing out, so you're not gonna pay off until the moment your house is sold. Those are all things they can take with them. If there is still a residual item that they do not get out of with their loan fund, then that is what this game is for. I'm gonna see if that's what we're gonna get out of this in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u158	A completely different question, not intended as a robbery, but I have been thinking about it a few times during the debate. Of course, we talk very often about how this fund will work, with what finances and what aid structures and so on. Has the Secretary of State ever considered, in preparing this AMvB, choosing, for example, a figure like the operation tank stroke, which we had last century? That was about all those empty oil tanks that started leaking and causing soil pollution. This was addressed with payment by the government and payment by owners themselves, under the direction of the municipality and for a decent period of time. Has that approach been considered? You didn't do that. I'm assuming that's what we've been thinking. You may not know the answer directly, but the longer we talk about these complicated financial structures, I keep wondering why you have not chosen such a route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u159	I have already indicated that this process has been carried out by many government officials, since the Health Council's opinion in 2010. At that time, a prohibition date was chosen with an incentive subsidy to achieve some sort of acceleration. In the first instance, this is what was chosen to trigger the market and the acceleration. It was also said at the time: that is EUR 75 million; we are running out. We can see that there is still a big problem. For example, since there is a link to the selling price of houses, we also see that it is not necessarily necessary to have it all paid by the taxpayer. Part of it is taken up in the market. That is why you want to provide tailor-made support, because you do not want to charge other taxpayers with costs that are not really necessary. That's why we're so keen on how we can do that in a good way. One thing is certain, in view of the difference in house prices: with an asbestos-free house you have a better position on the market. We also see that a group of people will probably not be able to achieve that better position independently. We do not want to leave that group in 2040 or 2045 with a house with a very eroded asbestos roof, the fibres of which pose a risk to the environment and the exposure becomes much higher because fibres may be walked in. On the contrary, we want to help the group which cannot actually do it on its own, and may therefore delay it all the time, to take that step. This is where the fund is also specifically set up. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koffeman had another question about Eternit. On the basis of the asbestos roads, it was examined whether Eternit could be held liable. The country's attorney concluded that this could not be done, because the causality could not be proven at the time. This was out of the old box, Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Ruers' motion. We've just changed the way I see things sticking together. I saw that Mr Ruers was pleased with that explanation. Is his assessment that the motion based on this explanation is no longer necessary? Or else may I interpret the motion as I indicated in my explanation, so I want to deal with it? If that is the case, then I only see the motion as supporting what I have said about it, namely that there is a construction with the fund and the 5 million behind for the poignant cases, including the slate roofs. I then see the motion as supporting that commitment and I would like to leave it to the Chamber. I would like to hear from Mr Ruers whether I can interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u160	As far as I am concerned, I thought that the explanation and explanation you gave was sufficient, in particular because of the moment of 2022. If I understand correctly, that will be an interim moment when we can evaluate and see if more money is needed. Under those circumstances, I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u162	At the request of Mr Ruers, I propose that his motion (34675, paragraph I) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u163	Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply. I would like to thank the groups for their great commitment to this issue. I also think that this does justice to the subject and to the difficult questions that there are to be asked. I also understand that it is a difficult balance for groups, because a ban is a ban. On the other hand, we also see that if we do not, the risks are not gone. That's actually what I wanted to say when I said the rooftops wouldn't be gone. If we don't do something about acceleration, we'll bring back the risks, knowing where the risk is, and we know that there are technical measures to deal with it. We also know that we have the tools to help those people who might not otherwise be able to do it themselves. We have that responsibility. I hope that I have indicated how I intend to set it up with that fund and also that jar for the poignant cases. We simply have a chance here together now to put a package in place to prevent the emergence of the risks and to help those who otherwise cannot do it on their own. Otherwise, I fear that these people will eventually be left with an asbestos roof and empty hands. We now have a chance to turn that into a sustainability of those roofs and perhaps a reduction in the energy bill, which will help this particular group for whom it is difficult to solve this problem. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-14.u165	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? I see nodding, the answer is yes. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next week. I understand from Mr Ruers that his motion is being held. So we're not voting on that motion next week. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment pending the arrival of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
