ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the discussion of the budget for external trade and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u2	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I shall deal with any questions and motions by group and then proceed directly to the amendments. There are no questions from the PVV, but motions. The motion in part No. I do not recommend a penny for development cooperation anymore. The motion in part No. 27. There has been extensive debate in letters and discussions. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 28 goes against EU law. Trade policy is an exclusive competence of the European Union. We cannot deviate from the principle, but we always answer the phones of all the countries involved who call us to talk about trade. Then the VVD. Let's start with the questions. I need to correct myself about the shift. The commitment was to spend one third more in the focus regions at the end of the cabinet period. Baseline is 2017. That one third will be within reach by 2020 if it goes well. That is my correction; I did not quite explain that correctly. A question from Mr Weverling on the international migration agenda. Each year 147 million has been earmarked for that agenda from BuHa-OS. That's the budget. That's not just for return. It's about the whole migration story. The question of which countries is committed depends very much on the tailor-made approach. There is also money to facilitate return from countries in North and West Africa, the countries of origin. A well-known example is Libya. People who were detained in detention centres are helped to go home through IOM and UNHCR. What OS funding settles in China and Kazakhstan? For China, this is a direct funding of 2.3 million in the last year, and for Kazakhstan it is 0.6 million. That comes from human rights projects from the Foreign Affairs budget. This is for clarity. It gives the wrong picture if it looks like we're treating China as a developing country. That is absolutely not the case. It certainly doesn't go to the Chinese government, but to the civil society that is under a lot of pressure. I think that's an interest we share. Mr Weverling also asked whether the Minister could consider whether we could get knowledge and skills of the start-ups at the WEF. You already know, I'm not about the invitation policy. It's quite competitive, but I'll be talking again soon and I'll see if they can just bring startups in another way, in our case from the Netherlands. I'll ask, but I can't do more than that. Which countries have an earmarked contribution to the CERF? The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: $1.2 billion. The United Arab Emirates: $1.96 billion. Kuwait: 309 million dollars. As I mentioned earlier, the amounts are of a very different order of magnitude than we have at the CERF. But that's the way it's supposed to be. They make the highest humanitarian contribution in relation to their gross national income. The CERF has 57 donors, 52 of which are states. A name-and-shaming list. I mentioned that a little bit. Next year there will be an overview of the actions taken, as requested in a motion by VVD, CDA and D66 when the JenV budget is discussed. You will find our contribution in that. Mr Weverling's final question was what comfort I can give to the adoption of the Wörsdörfer motion. Steps have been taken. It's a trial, and we're going through with it. I'll take a sharp look at it, too. We need a helpline for SME funding. That's an example. He's already here. We need to get the back office better. Trade & Innovate is also working on a better customer system, so that the entrepreneur does not have to go to two counters. And one export rule guide is arranged. There will be a bundling of financial instruments for international activities through Invest International. These are, of course, the process changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr Weverling for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u5	I would like to ask you about the previous answer on the refusal of nationals and everything behind them. This morning, Mrs Broekers-Knol said in an AO that in February or March she will present a first overview, a smart list. I assume that is why you are making your contribution. You were just talking about JenV's budget handling, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u6	Oh, that was the AO. Excuse me, I meant...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u7	Is it going to be on that February or March list?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u8	It's about that list and that commitment. Thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr Weverling's motion to item No. 29 I would like to judge Chamber if I may read the motion in such a way that I ask the IOB to include the question in the planned investigation into the effectiveness of the current PSD tools for the private sector. Because I don't want to do any double work. So we're taking the question into a planned investigation. Then GroenLinks. I didn't hear any questions. I do have a motion or it is possible afterwards to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u11	Has there been a question left, Mrs. Diks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u12	Oh, yeah. I did ask a question. Is the Minister prepared to double the contribution to the Green Climate Fund in the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u13	Excuse me, I was still with the questions. In principle, we are not going to double it now, because it is very good to take it with us. Countries are proud and want to show how much they give to one fund. But if you add up what they're all doing inside and outside the UN, we're really still one of the big donors. I'm not gonna see if a country happens to double or not in the Green Climate Fund and if that country doesn't do anything out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u14	But can you make that clearer next time, so that the Chamber can follow it better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u15	What am I supposed to make insightful? The contributions of all donor countries around the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u16	The dots, so it's clear to us, too. You are now saying that the Netherlands actually does a lot of things when you put all the funds together. Well, I would like to see that better, because it seems that we have not been able to derive that from the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u17	That's a very complex job. I do not think I am the Minister for Development Cooperation of all EU countries either. I'll see what we can bring with us useful information where that fits. But I'm not going to commit to doing research on donor behavior from other countries. That is also just public insight through the UN website or the World Bank. I've been asked to report back on the leverage. We report annually on mobilisation, so the leverage in the HGIS report. But as I said, I will see if we can give any more information on that. I don't see the lever as something that we can derive a lot of insights from year to year and maybe right away, but it will be interesting. It's an important exercise. I have been asked whether I am prepared to make more funds available for the contribution... We would have done that. I'm sorry. Then the motion to part No. 30 by Mrs Diks, Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Stoffer on setting up an experiment in one of the African focus countries. It's a nice motion, but there's a lot of cash transfer going on and we're already doing a lot, so there's no need. I don't want to set up an experiment either, because we're already doing it. So it's not an experiment anymore. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yes, we are already doing a lot, very widely through the World Bank, but we see that other major donors are already doing it with bilateral cooperation. The motion for a resolution is very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u19	The only thing we can do is to explore next year when the funds are discussed where in the focus countries there are opportunities to, for example, connect with a DFID or others. I don't want to reinvent the wheel while we can join others. This is inefficient and it is often the same population groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u20	Shall I amend the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u21	No, we're not gonna negotiate any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u22	The motion in part No. 32 asks whether we can start a coalition with similar countries in order to promote the phasing out of fossils from the ECV. As Mrs Diks knows, cabinet policy is greening and not containment. We are also committed to greening internationally in the context of the level playing field. I've talked about what I'm doing within my policy frameworks. We stay alert to do more internationally. Apparently, a motion on this matter has also been discussed in the First Chamber this week, but I would advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 33 is about FMO. FMO is currently being evaluated, including in the field covered by these recommendations. We're not looking for an independent oversight et cetera. I think it is important to wait for the evaluation and then perhaps come back to this. As the motion has now been put forward, I must dissuade her. But I am very aware of all the situations that you and others expose, including in the media. I'm going to talk to FMO about it myself. That's a commitment anyway. Then the CDA. Mr Amhaouch asks if I can take care that we would not be ready for the difficult issues that are going to play on trade. If I said no, you'd have to be really worried. I think we're very alert about that. We are playing across the board with the other ministries, but of course also within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. I think we are able to respond to all issues. If not, we'll ask for additional capacity. What is the ambition for the Task Force Invest International? I have already said that I want the law to be fully completed by the end of 2020, so that it is ready to start. The ambition for the task force's timeline strategy has been asked. The ambition is high and concrete. We are going to look with industry and knowledge institutions at three concrete trade opportunities on promising African markets. We hope to see results in 2020. Before then, I'm afraid to say much. They have to get to work first, so I don't want to commit to reporting yet. Maybe we can get back to AO's. Mr Amhaouch asks whether we are sufficiently equipped to promote trade. I would say: yes, The Hague and the posts. We are trying to get the people in the best places and, of course, we are working closely with the RVO network public-private cooperation task force Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u23	A brief question, Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u24	My question focused on VNO-NCW, SMEs and all those parties. They have created their own strategy as input for the task force. The task force is in progress, says the Minister. My question was about timing: when is the task force coming up with its strategy public-private?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'll get to that. Next week, on December 3, we have an AO Trade Promotion. I can look at the date. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mrs Kuik asks if I can inform the Chamber of progress on the inclusion of people with disabilities in the OS policy. I sent you a letter and I can do it again in the coming year. Hopefully we'll have the tightening that Mrs. Kuik and I are looking for. Can I take the Chamber with me in good time when it comes to combating diseases such as tuberculosis? The policy commitment to public health in os countries is in the budget. I'll give it to you every year. I will take the fight against diseases such as tuberculosis with me through the results report, but the question was also, of course, about the tropical diseases that have not yet been eradicated. That's the broader picture. Then there is the motion for a resolution on the fight against trafficking in human beings. If I may read the motion in such a way that no new strategy is required but an active implementation of and cooperation on prevention within the Strategy Against Trafficking in Human Beings, then I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the SP. I don't seem to have any questions. The motion in part No. 35 I can take over. It's support policy. We're already doing this, I say. We are looking, in particular, with the EU, at how we can put our weight on the scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u28	Does anyone object to taking over the motion? Yeah, the PVV and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u29	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u30	No? Sorry. Then the PVV objects to taking over the motion in part No. 35. She'll just get in the mood. What is the verdict on the motion in part No. 35?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u31	It's support policy, so take over, judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u32	Then she's redundant. If it is support policy, it is redundant and it is also discouraged. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u33	Yeah, but I'm not deceiving issues that are support policies. Then it is up to the Chamber not to table the motion, in my opinion, but I am not going to advise against what is good policy. Makes it look like I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u34	We're going to discuss this separately sometime, because that's really the deal with the cabinet. Otherwise we will have a very strange assessment framework and one will find the Court of Justice and the other will find it superfluous. But we can discuss that separately sometime. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u35	I totally understand that. I often stand here on behalf of Minister Blok. I know I'll be doing other instructions. I understand that, but this is support policy. I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide how she's gonna take it. The motion in part No. 36 deals with investment protection in bilateral trade agreements. The agreements on investment protection contribute to investment in infrastructure and other long-term projects. We believe that arbitration systems are also accessible to SMEs. As you know, citizens and NGOs also have access to normal justice. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Thirty-seven I also advise against. It is too one-sided a focus on the negative effects of globalisation. The government analyses globalisation in all its aspects. Only looking at an assumption of purely negative consequences is not recommended. It's about the package and the balance. The motion in part No. 38 is about excluding Shell in Nigeria from trade missions and support. The oil pollution in the Niger delta is too complex for a one-sided good/fault. We advise against this motion on this basis. We'll check every case to see if companies can go on a mission or not. D66 had no questions, but a motion. Can the Minister indicate when an EU action plan will be drawn up? I can't, in principle, but I just made the call. We have given impetus to this in many countries. We'll keep talking about it and we'll keep pulling it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u36	Just for the record, it wasn't a motion. Yes, it was just a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u37	Oh, excuse me. It'll be answered right away. Excuse me. He was behind the page motion with me. Then there are Mrs van den Hul's questions. In the case of detention centres in Greece, the implementation of this measure must be in line with applicable international European laws and regulations. At the moment, we do not have much more clarity as to what these reception centres will look like. It seems that closed centres can also form part of an expulsion procedure. It is also important to discuss this with Mrs Broekers-Knol. What is your response to the expulsion of Omar Shakir, the Human Rights Watch director in Israel/Palestinian territories? As Minister Blok has already pointed out, the cabinet considers it important that freedom of expression is respected, that there is scope for a diverse and inclusive civil society. We urge Israel to reverse the decision. That's the essence. There's been conversations. The message was also sent to the Israeli ambassador on 7 November by Minister Blok in his conversation with him. The motion in part No. 39 I can take over, because that is support policy. The motion in part No. 40 deals with the evaluation of anti-abuse provisions within tax treaties...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u38	I just have to ask if anyone has any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 39. That's the case. The PVV objects to this. Then the motion will be put to the vote. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u39	The motion in part No. 40 calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the evaluation of the anti-abuse provisions in tax treaties. This requires cooperation between tax administrations in the Netherlands and OS countries. I don't know if it's real. Moreover, this is really a matter for the Secretary of State for Finance. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u40	Very briefly, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u41	I realize that this is indeed interdisciplinary and also about other portfolios. We have already read in the Minister's written reply that tax legislation is not covered by this budget, but that is precisely the problem. Policy coherence requires a cross-policy perspective. So can the Minister at least now undertake to discuss this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'm going to talk to my colleague from the Treasury. I'll convey the concerns and hand them over. In the motion in part No. 41 is asked about the commitment to the sustainable development goals within the Netherlands. The integrated balancing framework has already been adapted. It is indeed important for the House to monitor this. I'll give the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 42 is standing policy. I'm just here thinking. Knowledge and commitment at embassies is already being strengthened in accordance with the new imvo guidelines. It calls for sustainable economic diplomacy and for information to be provided to the Court. I think we're having a lot of conversations about imvo, in all contexts. The role of the embassies is also involved, so I don't see what the extra question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u43	Very briefly, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u44	Very briefly. As I pointed out and as the observation states, we now have the IOB opinion and the ESC opinion which say: there is still a need to improve economic diplomacy in the case of imvo and the SDGs. So my request is to optimise, in line with that advice, the knowledge and commitment to promoting the imvo and SDG impact and to inform us about how that is optimized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u45	I understand that, but in the end, we talk about imvo all the time. I don't know if I should report specifically on how the embassies are doing their job. I consider this a support policy, so I can take over the motion. But there's not much news to report under the sun unless we're talking about imvo, embassies and what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm not gonna ask anyone anymore about that. So: or take over...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u47	Then I'll go on to the Christian Union...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u48	...or judgment room or dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u49	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u50	Okay. Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr Voordewind asked if I could see any possibility of giving more funding to the DRA in the short term. There is no room at the moment, but when there is room, humanitarian aid is always looked at as a priority. The DRA is a good partner. Then the Party for Animals. I think we've already had a lot of exchanges. In the context of policy coherence, there was another question about circular agriculture. Does our trade policy fit in with the ambitions of circular agriculture? I think I have to say that the cabinet has a very different assessment of the geo-economic situation and has a different appreciation for it than Mrs Ouwehand, so that will also be reflected in my reply. I won't give her any satisfaction. Circularity, sustainability of agriculture and knowledge sharing remain of great importance, including for the SDGs. Efficient use of raw materials, climate and environmental protection, sufficient quality and good food production are also essential for a growing world population. Trade is part of that. We'll see how we can contribute. There are no binding international rules for sustainable agricultural production. Nor can the EU unilaterally impose this. We look at standards and sustainability in trade agreements to achieve a higher standard. The imvo component has also been extensively discussed. Technical assistance, such as the IDH, Sustainable Trade Initiative, also contributes to this. So as well as sustainable agriculture in third countries and a level playing field or level playing field for the sustainability of the agricultural sector in the Netherlands and the EU. That is a short answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mrs. Ouwehand, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u53	I think farmers will be very reassured. "We're looking at sustainable trade." I asked the Minister about a case I've been trying to get her to reflect on for about two years. She goes for circular farming, but what does a veal deal with China contribute to that goal? I find it significant that the Minister does not respond to that. This is a concrete case! We drag them into calves, put them here in calf farms, chop them up and go on a plane to China. Explain, what does that do with circular agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u54	Honestly, I think the time... Mrs Ouwehand is very good at taking pieces and particles from a much more complex geo-economic and trade issue. The cabinet strives for circular agriculture. We also aim to raise standards and values. That is what we are expressing in all policy areas. Is the world perfect? No. Do we want to go to a doughnut economy? No, I didn't. Because I've never heard a performance before. We have prosperity and stability. Even this building is completely dependent on the funding that is earned with everything that the Netherlands does, both in the Netherlands and abroad. I'm not doing too much of that, far from it. I do not think you can easily get away with this on a geo-economic level. We can talk about a couple of veal slices here and there, but I told you we were going to talk about that at CETA. We're talking about trade every AO. I can come back to the question you asked about how the veal fits the animal welfare ambitions. Recently it has been agreed that the Netherlands will gain more market access to China for veal. This is, according to our joint assessment, good news for Dutch farmers who, on the basis of Dutch legislation on food safety and animal welfare, prepare veal for export. People are not yet vegetarian or vegan in China. As you know, circular agriculture is about setting up the agricultural sector, making efficient use of raw materials and contributing to world food production. That doesn't mean we're not exporting anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u55	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u56	This is the Minister's reaction to the case that two-week-old young calves are being put in a lorry in Ireland and transported to France by boat, where, according to the images we have seen, they are being kicked together in an EU-approved assembly centre. And then it's up to a calf farm in the Netherlands, where they can catch pneumonia and get sick. The Minister says: that is animal welfare. All right, let's take note of that. I also asked about the woods. The Minister had promised that in the second term she would return to the actions taken by the Cabinet to better protect those forests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u57	She'll come back to that, won't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u58	Yes. I am indeed looking for a lecture from my own reading about the forests. It should be in my pieces. I'm gonna see if they can send me those. Apart from that, there is no point in having a debate on the basis of selective examples that are put forward as soon as I have given a reply. Demand is changing all the time, too. I am a systematic person and I think it is important to be able to conduct this debate in an organised manner, especially when it comes to motions and questions. I'm just waiting for the answer in the deforestation letter. I have indeed promised it to Mrs Ouwehand. Then there is a motion from Mrs Ouwehand, Mrs Diks, Mr Alkaya, Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Kuzu. Are we going to gradually reduce the budget to 0.7%? You don't need a roadmap; that's a political decision. I'm gonna make a commitment to that. A roadmap is not necessary if there is political will and there are agreements. I've been kept to the state-wide priorities. We have also heard a lot today from various parties about the interests within the Netherlands and the agreed budgetary frameworks. That's what we need to look into. A roadmap is not necessary, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u59	Short question, Mrs Ouwehand, and no discussion, because we have had this debate. I'm afraid that even if we go two hours further, you won't get together. I understand there are differences of opinion. That's what we're dealing with. You are free to put your motions to the vote. In the end, the Chamber decides whether or not to vote in favour of your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u60	That's right, Mr. Chairman. You have clearly noted that we are not going to find each other on many points, but perhaps we are going to find each other on the development budget, which is what my motion is about. We see that the Chamber wants to return to 0.7. I put forward a number of proposals for this in the motion, but the Minister is actually only responding to the first request. I was curious to see how she looks at the second request, because that is very concrete, to reverse three structural cuts in the forthcoming Spring paper. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment? 'Cause I'm really curious if she's willing to do that or if she's willing to say, "two out of three." I would very much like us to take a step further than just the ambition to go to 0.7 without making any concrete arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u61	I've already advised against that motion. The examples are not feasible. I'll have the political talk about OS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u62	Sorry, Mrs. Old Hand, but we're moving on. You're just putting your motion to the vote, as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u63	But there are two requests in the motion. The Minister responds to one request and says on that basis that the motion has been dissuaded. I ask what she thinks of the second request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u64	I dissuade the motion and she continues to be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u66	Then there was a request for an explanation of the letter on deforestation. That letter will be coming to you soon. Hopefully that'll be a better time. There's four tracks. The first is policy influence within the EU, through international fora, dialogues and the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. The second is support for multi-stakeholder initiatives. You are well known for being the Tropical Forest Alliance under the World Economic Forum. The third theme is the strengthening of governance by creating the right framework conditions, for example support for EU commitment under a whole programme. In addition, there is a programme for land scaling up and improved land and forest management, which has also often been requested by Mrs Diks. It is also about protecting and supporting environmental and land rights defenders. The fourth theme is the financing of innovative programmes to be scaled up, as well as four contributions to multilateral funds. This brings us a little bit to the climate fund, but it also involves other channels. So that's a lead in the right direction. Then I would like to ask Mr Stoffer of the SGP whether I can do more in my policy for people with disabilities and whether we are thinking about developing criteria. The commitment is already made through the funds and the programmes. Within the education programme, we are now also calling for structural attention to be paid to inclusion of people with disabilities. We do this as part of a broader policy. That is extremely important in refugee camps but also outside. We also talk to NGOs and UN partners to apply standards and guidelines in the assessment, planning and implementation of their programmes. We are using new published guidelines from an international committee, a partnership committee, which is based in Geneva and to which everyone has to abide. Mrs Kuik was also promised that I would come back to that in due course. We'll stay sharp, because there's more work to be done. Mr Stoffer has tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) He asked for special criteria. We stick to Leaving no one behind, but we do not want to have separate criteria, because there are directives. On the basis of a technical assessment, I do not recommend the motion, but I will give you the commitment, because there are already directives. But we are not looking for new criteria; we need to apply the directives properly. Then there is a motion from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mrs Ouwehand, you are still standing, but I think the Minister has already assessed your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr President, that is correct, but the Minister has moved my question on forests to the second term. She has just answered that and I wanted to ask a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u69	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u70	The Minister quotes from the letter that is still coming to the Chamber about how we are going to better protect the forests. But do I understand that the government does not opt for the removal of subsidies for biomass plants, does it not opt for an end to aid for Mercosur and does it not opt for a restriction on imports of feed and palm oil to protect forests worldwide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u71	You know, I'll just come back to this in the letter. Those are a number of suggestive questions. Mercosur still has to go all the way. It has just been negotiated by the EU, so there is no final and formal cabinet weighing up. It's signed. Then you have the phasing-out when it comes to palm oil or soy. There's a lot of trajectories for that, too. I do not have all the information available to reply to it in a substantively responsible manner. That'll come back in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u72	Then I'm going to see Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'm gonna take a shot anyway. Suppose, when I tabled a motion on people with disabilities, I would remove the words "add special criteria" and say instead...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u74	The motion in part No. 44, Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u75	Yeah, that one. If I were to replace those words with "to apply the existing directives," would the Minister's opinion on the motion be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yeah, well, then the judgment's gonna be different. Then the motion is simply enforceable and we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u77	Then I'll change the motion in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr Stoffer also has the motion in part No. 45, requesting that, in the event of a permanent freezing of the contribution to UNRWA, it be examined, for example, whether it is possible to provide direct support to Augusta Victoria. I do not recommend this motion, because we are not exchanging a contribution to UNRWA, on the basis of a cabinet weighting granted under the MOVP, against the funding of a hospital. A contribution to the hospital is very noble, because the hospital provides a very important service. I suggest to Mr Stoffer that we consider whether Augusta Victoria can somehow get some kind of support. It is also about oncology for people who otherwise have no access. That, I think, is our shared objective. Mr Van Haga asked which Dutch organisations received programme funding from the BHOS budget for contradiction in the Netherlands. A letter has already been issued on collusion and contradiction with existing organisations. That's Room 336-25, No. 150. That's where we can get that information. But it is not good to keep track of whether or not people are critical at some point. We know the letters and, as you know, we still think they belong. Mr Van Haga has the motion in part No. 46 concerning the increase in the shipping costs of e-commerce packages. I would ask Mr Haga to hold this motion because the cabinet is already taking stock of the inter-departmental situation and will inform the Chamber accordingly. The leading role here lies with EZK. If Mr Van Haga can continue the motion, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u79	And if not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u80	Then the motion cannot be carried out at this time and I must advise against her. But I cannot imagine that this is Mr Van Haga's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr Van Haga is now walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u82	I must now look at the co-author of the motion, Mrs Ouwehand. I see she's okay. We'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u83	At the request of Mr Van Haga, I propose his motion (35300-XVII, No. 46). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u84	In the motion in part No. 47 the government is invited to work with all responsible ministries to harmonise rules, directives and standards within the EU. That's about all every ministry does. For purely practical reasons, I advise against this motion. It's really far beyond the BHOS budget, but I'm taking the point. We will do all that on every theme that lives and plays. In the motion in part No. 48 the government is asked to draw up a plan of action and to use its ministerial powers to get out of the steel gap. Mr Van Haga has rightly referred to all the efforts we have already made. The motion is in line with the existing commitment of the cabinet. The motion is unnecessary. And all learning is done. So I have to discourage the motion. But it is work in progress and we will continue to do so. And that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u85	This is somewhat inconsistent, because so far it has been said every time: if it is an existing policy and the Minister is already doing it, I have even complimented her for that, then we ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u86	Yeah, that was the problem. I saw that coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u87	So I suggest we be consistent and give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u88	I saw that coming. That's what I meant to say. I almost agree with Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u89	Then let's go with the consequence. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u90	But we're gonna get it right next time. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u91	Yeah, I totally agree. The motion in part No. 49 calls on the government to stop subsidies to institutions suing against the government. We finance organizations primarily for their work abroad. We also do not know cases of organisations financed by BHOS funds, but it remains the right of any social organisation to take the step to court. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u92	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u93	I had another question open, namely when exactly we can look forward to the commitment on Gavi.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u94	The commitment? We're gonna keep following it, but we're gonna... There's just been a funding conference. We've already announced the Gavi amounts. We're not gonna put that on again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u95	I understand that, but Mr Stoffer has asked if you see in the next round room. You were supposed to look at that. So what's the first time we can make money for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u96	In the spring. Thank you for coming back, because this also gives me the opportunity to say that this was not a firm commitment. It was a bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u98	Let me see how to number this, because there are no numbers on my amendments. Could it be because of the amendment to item No. 12 go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u100	Then I'll do it right. I understand the principle of humanitarian aid. Unfortunately, it's never enough. We also do not want to undermine the long-term objectives of this article by shifting more money. On that basis, therefore, I would advise against this amendment, but the cabinet is always looking at ways of increasing humanitarian aid, depending on developments. But that is not specific within this budget article. Then there is the amendment to item No. 14 by Mrs Ouwehand and Mrs Diks. I fully agree that female genital mutilation and cutting must be combated both in the Netherlands and abroad. It's a violation of women's and girls' rights, but there's a framework coming up. It's called the SRGR partnership. Organisations can sign up for this. We're not setting up separate funding lines. On that basis, I advise against this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 15 by Mrs Diks on 5 million extra for forest management, with coverage from Article 4. We share the concerns about deforestation. You know the letter is coming, but we are always looking at the mix of good interventions. I also find the coverage from this article worrying. For these reasons, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u101	Very briefly, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u102	I understand your reasoning, but we have looked very closely at strengthening the structures there, so helping to set up some kind of state forest or something like that. I don't think it's gonna do us any good anywhere in the world if countries put 1 million twigs in the ground that end up dying. That's not gonna make any sense. So it is precisely to help these countries to reforest in a good way, but when it comes to the source of funding, I would like to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u103	Then we go straight to the Amendment No. 16 by Mr Bouali. In it comes the coverage from the correct budget article, Article 2. That amendment also refers to deforestation. The desire to support local farmers on the contrary in terms of sustainability and the doubling of our commitment to deforestation are further reflected in the letter. This is Judgement Room. The budget article is also correct. Perhaps Mrs Diks and Mr Bouali could go together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u104	It's Judgment Room, Mr. Bouali. Do you have a problem with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u105	No, I have a question. I have no problem with it at all, Madam President. In fact, I'm very happy about that. I had asked the Minister if she could see if this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u106	Just a little louder, because it's not easy to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u107	I had asked the Minister to consider whether this could be done in a structural manner and whether there were opportunities for doing so in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u108	It is an amendment to the budget for 2020. We are therefore talking about this budget, but we are structuralally working on plans to combat deforestation and make it more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mrs van den Hul, on this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u110	No, Mrs Diks reminded me that we have not yet heard an opinion on my amendment to item No. 13. Maybe we missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u111	That has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u112	Yeah, that's right. Then there is the amendment to item No. 18, on the increase of 5 million for the imvo-diplomacy. I would advise against that amendment. There is no question of increasing capacity. We have the guidelines. The next year will also start to assess the effectiveness of working on the posts. After that, by the end of 2020, we can see if there's anything going on. This amendment is anticipating the matter. I understand the intention of the amendment, but I advise against it. The amendment in part No. 19 of Mr Amhaouch and Mr Weverling I leave to judge Chamber. I'm gonna go along with the thought line of the extra impulse. It is very important that ROMs are able to participate very actively here, but I would like to point out that we cannot exclude other partners, because of course we are going to look at the most effective form of cooperation. So if I may interpret your amendment in such a way that the partners can join, that is very nice, especially when we look at the cooperation between national and regional public partners in Trade & Innovate NL to support SMEs. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 20 by Mr Stoffer, on the
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u113	Let me say a word about our amendment to item No. 19. This is our approach because the ROMs have national coverage. Of course it's okay if we can join forces there, but we shouldn't turn it around, because then we get a whole distribution and then we have nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u114	I confirm that the core is definitely leading. Then there is the amendment to item No. 20 by Mr Stoffer, on the release of 5 million within the SDG 5 fund for the financing of good mother and child care and information on alternatives to abortion. For technical reasons, I must advise against this amendment, Mr Stoffer. You may have expected us to be very far apart, but it is precisely about good information about sexual rights and about health rights. Good information also points to the alternatives. It is not a clear path to abortion, far from it. I therefore think that sometimes the image does not fully reflect what is actually happening. Since we are going to get the tender, I cannot accept this amendment. Within the tender, we look at everything that can benefit the mother, and possibly the child, the unborn child. Then there is the amendment to item No. 21 by Mr Alkaya, on additional funding for Education Cannot Wait. We're already making a contribution. At the moment it is not foreseen that we add extra money. I'm on the steering committee, too. The Netherlands is closely involved in Education Cannot Wait, so convinced of the importance. Then there is the amendment to item No. 22...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u115	I understand that the opinion of the amendment on item No. Twenty-one is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u116	Dissuade, yes. Excuse me. Then there is the amendment to item No. 22 by Mrs Ouwehand, on fulfilling the minimum commitment of the Netherlands in the area of climate finance for the year 2020 and on adding 130 million coverage from the budget surplus. I think I have already made it clear that we are doing a lot. In 2018, we achieved more than 1.076 billion. By 2020, it mobilised 1.12 billion public and private. The coverage for this amendment is also lacking. Coverage from the budget surplus is not an option. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u117	Very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u118	The Minister says we do so much already. But does she at least acknowledge that the General Court has established that we are simply not achieving what we promised for climate finance and that the cabinet itself is abandoning the budgetary rules? The Court could therefore assess whether it wishes to remove this cover. The cabinet must feel that it is fulfilling its own commitments on climate finance. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u119	We are, of course, committed to meeting our own commitments. Furthermore, I still advise against this motion in the context of everything we have discussed before. Then I shall continue with the amendment to item No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u120	23.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u121	23 by Mrs Van den Hul. The proposed text is at the expense of other priorities within the same article, such as access to justice and other important things. I understand very well; it actually comes back to the motion on humanitarian aid. If there is money and space at some point, this is always actively looked at, because it also looks at reception in the region, which is also a migration interest. But at the moment I have to discourage this amendment, including in the context of coverage, Article 4.3. Then I have an amendment by Mrs Ouwehand, on item No. 24, over $1 million for Movement on the Ground. That's a hell of a organization. As I said in the debate with Mr Voordewind, we share the concerns about the harrowing situation of next winter. Although, by definition, we do not spend money within the European Union from development cooperation, I have said that, exceptionally, I release non-ODA money as a rather symbolic amount. This is also in line with my colleague Mr Broekers-Knol's decision to send 30,000 blankets to the Greek islands. But we don't spend money on organizations. So I am not doing so now by means of an amendment. I have made a commitment and I will inform the Chamber about the amount and the organisation that best fits in with it. So I did not recommend this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 25, by Mr Weverling, on 4 million for cross-border innovation. I leave this amendment to the Court's judgement. I have something to add to that. If Mr Weverling is referring to cooperation in the field of research and development, I have to tell him that this really is all about my colleague from the Economic Affairs Committee. Of course, we want to look at strategies that focus on a combination of trade and aid, but I also think that was Mr Weverling's approach. Judge Room, then. Then the last and not the least. That is the amendment to item No. 31, by Mr Voordewind and Mrs Kuik. I think that amendment is very sympathetic. We always close the queues when it comes to combating child prostitution. We already do, and we're gonna keep doing it. I am opposed to the designation of specific funds within a policy article, but I can promise that child prostitution will remain a priority. It will probably not come from Article 3, but money will be found for this important work. That's a tough commitment. I hope that will allow me to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u122	That was the amendment on item No. 31?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u123	Let's see, yeah. That was him. The amendment in part No. 31 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u124	Okay, then that's clear. Mrs van den Hul, I will give you the floor if one of your questions has not really been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u125	The Minister's last appreciation has caused me some confusion. I share the Minister's concern about the coverage of the amendment. I fully share the interest of the proposers, but it was not quite clear to me what the minister just said about the coverage from SRGR. Is it going to implement the amendment, but is it guaranteed that it will not take the cover out of the item proposed in this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u127	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u128	Also because the framework has not yet been published. So we can't, and we don't sort for organizations. I want to secure the theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you. It was Judgment Room, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u130	It's an amendment. Well, I guess I'll just have to make it clear what it's paid for. Well, then we'll have to discuss it. I see the Minister is receiving a ticket now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u131	The Minister probably has the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u132	I'm lucky to be helped by some angels behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u133	I would like to tell the Minister that it is of course nice to have a continuation of programmes, that we do not destroy existing programmes and then start very new things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u134	That is certainly not the intention, but you will also understand the following. We just discussed the new framework. It's still to be published. There's plenty of space there, too. In any case, I believe that a number of organisations can also find their place under SRGR on the basis of quality, continuation and results. I have been corrected: it can be found within Article 3. But I do not want it within the framework that has yet to be published. That has also been an answer to questions from other colleagues. But because this is a unique niche, which has results and is carried Chamberwide, it is important to ensure that. That's the stakes, and I commit to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u135	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for external trade and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-8.u136	I would like to thank the Minister very much for her presence and answers. I thank the Members of Parliament. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
