ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 17 and 18 October 2019. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to have the Prime Minister back after a long trip. I hope it's not too bad with the jet lag. It's 12 hours time difference, I think. I would also like to congratulate him on the award he received in Australia for his performance on the issue of the MH17. That's very deserved. I do not know why he is now pointing to the Labour Party. Well, that's about what I wanted to make constructive remarks about. Oh, no, I got another one. It is also very good that, just before the start of this debate, we could not, of course, have received the report from the General Affairs Council before. But what is in it does disappoint my group. We can read that the question of opening accession negotiations with Albania and northern Macedonia has actually been killed again. Some countries would oppose it. At least the Netherlands is with that group of some countries. The other country is probably France, and 25 countries are probably ahead. The Prime Minister might be able to say something about that. It has therefore been decided once again that those accession negotiations, which would give us influence on the further process of democratisation and which would enable us to prevent countries such as China, Turkey, Russia and I know very well who will have decisive influence in the region from starting again. But there is still a very small point of light, because if I understand correctly, the final decision will be taken at the European summit this weekend. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to reconsider the arguments that there are, perhaps only in the case of northern Macedonia, perhaps for both countries, to agree to start accession negotiations. They will at least concern us for the next ten years. That is what I wanted to say about the General Affairs Council, the RAZ. I should like to talk very briefly about the situation in Turkey and Syria. There is, of course, a separate debate on this tomorrow evening. I think it would be a good idea to deal with most of the things that are going on there. I must say that the outcome of the Foreign Affairs Council is disappointing. They are disappointing because they are not really talking about economic measures that Erdogan and the people around him can take and because they are a little ambiguous in terms of arms and arms embargo, because ultimately there will be no mandatory arms embargo to which all EU Member States are bound. To be honest, I was surprised that the Foreign Minister called the outcome of the IAB 'a huge step forward'. I repeat: huge step forward. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, if only as a warning to the Turkish President, who might know that there will be more and that it will not be just this 'big step forward'. Mr. Chairman. I want a very brief blessing on the Brexit. There is, of course, a great deal to be said about this on the one hand and, on the other hand, very little. I understand that there is a lot of talk and that there is still plenty of attempt to get an understanding of an agreement before the Heads of Government meet at the end of the week. I'm reading about deadlines that were supposed to be at 0200 tonight. We all read it in the paper, of course. Sometimes we hear it in London, not from the main players, but from people who are more closely involved. I hope the Prime Minister can update us on the latest state of affairs. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a number of comments on the Multiannual Financial Framework. That has been on the agenda many times, but it does not really change very much. I keep asking myself: 'That is what I would like to submit to the Prime Minister: 'What are the considerations and calculations underlying, for example, the Dutch commitment to the size of the MFF?' The cabinet says that 1% of net national income, I think, is sufficient. That is enough to finance our new priorities, enough to implement the strategic agenda and enough to achieve the results we want to achieve, provided that sharp choices are made. That's what it says in the annotated agenda. What's that based on? How do we know it's enough? What is the basis for this calculation? What sharp choices do we actually make? How much can be done in agriculture? Which Structural Funds can be deleted? What does the ambitions of the strategic agenda actually cost? Migration policy, security, climate, sustainable economy, values and interests abroad are good priorities. Like the cabinet, my group agrees that these are the issues that the EU needs to deal with more than before. But what it costs, for example, depends on your ambition in all these different areas. Take climate as an example. If we want to strengthen our ambitions for CO reduction by 2030, that is what the Netherlands wants; that is what my group wholeheartedly supports. If you want a European Green Deal, it costs money. If you want a Just Transition Fund, it costs money. How much that costs depends on your ambition. My question is, therefore, whether the Prime Minister can make that Dutch position, which has not really changed in the last year and a half, clearer. Moreover, the position of the European Commission and that of all the other Member States has not changed in the last year and a half. You don't, because you're negotiating, so you don't want to move first. I get that, too. However, I think it would be a good idea for us to have this debate, which we are still going to have a lot of time in the coming months, to be able to back up a little more if you understand what I mean, Mr President, on the basis of clear choices, clear calculations and clear estimates of what our ambitions cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u4	Mr. Chairman. Doctors without Borders are currently leaving Northeast Syria and are seriously concerned about what is happening on the ground. Since the illegal invasion of Rojava by Turkey and the betrayal of the Kurds by Trump, it is really very exciting. On Sunday evening, the Kurds even had to ask for help from the Syrian army to survive. Tomorrow there will be a big debate with the Prime Minister, but I agree with the total displeasure that my group has after what happened yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Council. This government was sent out with a lot more. There was a very united Chamber last week: arms embargo, economic sanctions, get NATO together. This can't be it, I'll tell you, to the Prime Minister. As crazy as it may be, we also need to talk about the separation of a country from the European Union today. The war in North-East Syria and the verbal clap of arms of the Heads of Government within the European Union are in stark contrast. It's actually too sad for words. But I just read that The Guardian says there's a deal. Is that right? Yeah, I have a lot of questions I want to ask, but I just read that. There would have been far-reaching commitments or concessions made by Johnson. Can the Prime Minister fill us in? And if that is not the case and Johnson has to ask for a postponement on October 19th. Or is it because of all that verbal crap of arms, which is also often for internal politics, for example in France and other countries, 'look at how tough we are, what big muscles we do not have towards the British' already a country gets so annoyed that it actually says: no, no more delay, go out? It would be a shame if that was the outcome of all that verbal weaponry clatter. Mr. Chairman. While the separation of a country is a true battlefield, at least verbally, the Heads of Government have been cheerful about the new strategic agenda for the past six months. This new strategic agenda is about more European Union, a closer European Union, a larger European Union, more common tasks, militarising together, climate, together a future-proof industry, deepening financial products and the financial market to save the euro; it goes on and on. And take the European Commission. At every hearing, the upcoming European Commissioners must give in more to the European Parliament, because it wants political commitments. From the point of view of the European Parliament, I may understand that, because that might make them more relevant. But what are the Member States going to do about this? Last week we received a very interesting report from the Clingendael Institute, entitled The European Commission in balance? It concludes that the European Commission is very often blind-minded about political goals without rational consideration, that all kinds of political goals have anticipated and unforeseen consequences that are not being evaluated, and that these consequences are naturally felt by people in the Member States. They even refer to the Brexit as a result of the political direction of the European Commission. They also mention the introduction of the euro and internal labour migration with the opening of borders under the motto of free movement of persons. Wouldn't it be good, before you make a new strategic agenda and start talking about "more, closer, deeper," to see where you stand? What is really benefiting people in the Member States? Why did we think that the European Union was an internal market, but can we not say that it is a single housing market or a single labour market? Simply because we differ, and may differ. Let's not suppress these differences, but celebrate with each other. I do not see that in the strategic agenda, I would like to say to this Prime Minister. Then there is the accession negotiations with northern Macedonia and Albania. They're not gonna happen. That's actually how we got into it last week. But we have always said that there is another way to work with countries that may be too unstable to welcome them now within the European Union. We are following France's arguments. They say, "You're divorcing, so you shouldn't expand." We also think that we should first look at whether the rule of law in the countries themselves is in order before we can teach others how to do that, but I would like to see that we offer perspective. I now read in the report that the Council will discuss it again after the European Council. I do not really agree with that, because we cannot continue in this way, with a Commission that writes a report and says 'open negotiations' and countries that then say 'we do not want to'. I think we should go to another form. In any case, the next report should not be written by the Commission. Then let the Member States take the initiative. I don't know if that's possible, but I'd think that's a good move. Otherwise it will remain a stalemate, and I can well imagine the disappointment in Albania and northern Macedonia. I can also really imagine that they want perspective. I don't think they're gonna get that if we keep going on the same road. I think there's a clear stalemate, so can we solve it in another way? Mr. Chairman. Then it is also about climate, because in 100 days, Commissioner Timmermans will be presenting the European Green Deal. The government has expressed its support for this, but how then, I would like to ask this Prime Minister. He himself does not even get his climate agreement done, especially because it is not fairly divided. Environmental defence and trade unions do not want to go with this Prime Minister on the issue of the Climate Agreement. Households pay and the polluters, the big companies, the tax avoidance companies, remain out of the question. And what's that "fair transition fund" that it's about? Does that mean that we, the Netherlands, are going to buy out the Poles and their coal power stations? Is such a fund going to help us? Mr. Chairman. The final point is the future multiannual budget. Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks and I often disagree on matters of the European Union, but I would like to fully support him in this regard. Where are we now? What are our red lines? The Finnish Presidency is now labelling amounts to the various budget chapters. That's really good. What is the minimum commitment of this government and what is the maximum? What does she think she needs for the ambitions that are needed? In other words, how can we follow that? For once again we have to go into the dark pits of the secret room somewhere to read what the Heads of Government are talking about. I think we should just know that. It is our taxpayers' money and we just need to know where the Netherlands is, where France is and how they make decisions about our money. So can the Prime Minister promise me that that will be public?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u5	If I weren't already standing here, I would have been standing here after Mrs Leijten's fine words about the MFF. My question concerns the previous point or even the point before it, namely the opening of accession negotiations. The SP and GroenLinks really disagree on this, but I was surprised at one of the arguments Mrs Leijten used. I'd like to ask her a question about that. It says: we can follow French reasoning very well. The French reasoning has nothing whatsoever to do with progress in Albania and northern Macedonia. That argument came out of a box like a devil and was never included in any arrangement. That argument is that we, Europe, are not really ready for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u6	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u7	Whether that is not a very strange argument and whether that is not a very strange position for the French, because it has never been put forward as a criterion for the acceding countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u8	I don't know exactly if that's a little devil out of a box for the French, but I do agree with them. That is what we said in the SP election programme for the European elections. The previous or actually the Juncker European Commission, which is still sitting, actually said that it is not ready for Europe now; we are going to prepare it for 2025 and we are going to promise it to a number of countries, but we are not going to expand in these five years. He didn't do that entirely, but I've always used these arguments. How can you open these negotiations in times of separation and in times of a really serious discussion about each other's rule of law? We shouldn't do that. To offer perspective to these countries we are much closer together, because I think we both want to. I just don't think opening the books is the best cure. Mr Van Ojik may think so, but I think we both want to offer a perspective to this region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u9	Sure, sure. But the question of how we do that and whether or not we are going to start accession negotiations with these two countries is, of course, very topical. However, that French argument is important. The Prime Minister will probably not want to confirm it, but France and the Netherlands are probably the only two countries that are still blocking the start of negotiations. The French say that we do not, because we, the European Union, are not ready. This has never been mentioned in any document by anyone as a condition for starting accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u10	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u11	So my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u12	How do you know that? That's good!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u13	Even if it's in the SP election programme, there's no reason to bring something like a devil out of a box into the negotiations? That was my question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u14	It would be very healthy if President Macron could be so questioned in Parliament once in a while. He's barely gonna be. You should actually ask him this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u15	But you agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u16	Yeah, I agree with him. I have seen these arguments and I have also seen Denmark in the coverage. Perhaps the group of countries that do not agree is the same. At the same time, I think it is really the worst possible outcome to pretend that it has just passed and then say: we are going to put extra pressure on those two, three or perhaps four countries; then we will pull it through next time. I have just asked the Prime Minister if we can offer a different perspective, because after the third time this road is closed. I would really think that is the wisest thing, because otherwise this will continue to play poker with countries and the future of those countries, and that is really not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u18	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is a strong supporter of European cooperation, because we believe that this is the best way to provide protection and security for the people of Europe. Europe can play an important role in terms of major threats, security, terror or how to deal with climate change. Moreover, Europe can provide prosperity and prosperity. But that can only be done if there is real cooperation and if it is possible to draw a common line with this large number of countries, despite all the differences. In this respect, I do not think we are experiencing the happiest period of European cooperation. I will say something about what is happening in Northern Syria and how Europe reacts to it. I can broadly agree with what Bram van Ojik said about that. Even when it comes to those accession chapters, countries are unable to come up with at least one strategy on how to promote reform. There is also a great deal of talk about the effective handling of migration and refugees, but on the European continent we are not able to form an effective policy with all these countries, nor are we able to achieve decent reception in Greece. Yet, of course, there are also points of light. We see that the rule of law and democracy are strong. An opposition mayor has been elected in Budapest. That's quite a bright spot. There has been cooperation with various opposition parties. I think that is a very positive signal for where it could go with Europe. The European Labour Authority will start tomorrow. Personally, I think it is very important, because it is one of the means of tackling companies throughout Europe that do not take it very closely with the rules we make with each other on how to deal with employees. We read in the annotated agenda that the Prime Minister intends to talk at the European Council about distortions of competition within countries and between companies. In this context, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to pay attention to distortions of competition between workers, exploitation of workers and the fact that large companies can still shop and thus save labour costs. This is at the expense of Dutch job seekers, but also of job seekers in other countries and of smaller companies, who cannot do that kind of construction. I ask him to deal with this at the European Council. The second important issue is the Brexit. That is a saga, a soap opera, where the common denominator is that for three years there has been poker with the guarantees of people in Britain and people here on the European continent. I sincerely hope there is a breakthrough, but I wouldn't hold my breath on it yet. For so far, the Brexit negotiations have taken two steps forward and then three steps back. That means that we must also consider a hard Brexit. In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to argue that our Dutch workers and our Dutch companies should be better protected. The European Commission has now said that the European Globalisation Fund is also being opened up to companies that are getting a huge blow as a result of a hard Brexit, but the rules are such that you need to be able to demonstrate a job loss of 500 employees in order to make use of it. That means that only the multinationals are protected. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to argue that Dutch SMEs, and hence their employees, can also be protected in the event of such a blow, for example by setting the border at 50. I think these companies are actually much more vulnerable than those big companies. Then there are the talks on accession. I think this is not just about what is still wrong in Albania and northern Macedonia, which we can all see. It is also about what is in the geopolitical interest of us, as Europe, and what is happening at our borders. It is important for all of us that the countries around us carry out reforms that make these countries more stable, strengthen the rule of law, ensure that crime is combated there and that there is no influence from countries that may not want a stable Europe at all. In this context, I would like to argue in favour, also reading the report by the rapporteur, Anne Mulder, on developments in those countries, for which I am very grateful that the Netherlands has a position that is more similar to that of Germany, so: yes, and keep pressure on the kettle. Create a joint strategy with countries to pursue those reforms, which are in the interests of the inhabitants there. But don't close the door now, because it's the third time that that's happened. It seems to me to be a real danger that you will actually give the wrong forces in those countries the message: it is no use, never mind. They may then focus on other, less democratic blocs to join. That's not in our best interest. Nor is it in the Dutch interest. I think that the Netherlands could play a good role, together with Germany, for example, in getting it in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. For me as a European, it is extremely sad and intense to see a new black chapter, after eight years of civil war in Syria, opened with Turkey's invasion of northern Syria. We will discuss this in detail tomorrow, so I shall now confine myself to the preparation of the European Council, because we know that it will also be on the agenda and because I would like to ask the Prime Minister to call for a clearer European position at that European Council. I ask him not to rest in the powerlessness that we now radiate and which is the effect of yesterday's RAZ. Europe must make it clear that the solution to the dilemmas that Turkey faces at the southern border is the security risks that one sees, the enormous amount of refugees being received there and the way in which you deal with the Kurds, can only be found in dialogue and not in this clap of arms. So Erdogan must withdraw his troops and end his invasion. Europe must be able and willing to impose clear and sharp sanctions, much clearer than has been the case so far. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister and his colleagues, especially from countries that also know many extravagants, to discuss together what is, on the basis of security considerations, a rational approach to the risk of escape of IS fighters. I've been somewhat disturbed by almost campaign-like debates about IS fighters between different coalition parties. I think victims of ISIS in that area are threatening to meet their killers and rapists again in that area. That's what's going on. It is therefore up to the Netherlands, at European level, to call for agreements on what we can and must do to prevent any new insecurity arising there, on top of all that insecurity that is already there. And then you can draw conclusions about what it means for the Netherlands, the children and others. Don't do a cheap political quickie, but just respond from Europe with the responsibility we have for what's going on there. That is the least of our obligations to the civilian population there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u19	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u20	Bram's got a phone!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u21	Is that right, Mr. Van Ojik? Was that your phone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u22	Yeah, but I turned it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u23	Turn it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u24	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u26	Like Martin van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u28	Are you gonna answer it, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u30	I saw that then. I thought, "That's never gonna happen to me."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u31	It wasn't a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u32	No, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u33	Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u34	Thank you. Proceed, Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u35	Well, that was a good start to my contribution. Mr. Chairman. 1 November 2019 should have been a memorable date: the Brexit fact and Juncker left as President of the European Commission. We are now in the middle of October, and there is really no way to establish whether both events will actually take place. Especially as far as Brexit is concerned, we are completely in the dark, while it is now 40 months since the UK people indicated that they wanted to leave the EU in a referendum. The headlines of the last few days were indicative in that respect. One is talking about unexpected optimism, the other about the failure of the Brexit consultation. The last three and a half years have been characterised by gossip, backslide, power politics from Brussels, internal trouble in British politics, and I know what is happening, often with the main aim of preventing the British from leaving the Union. But today, at least, there is a Probrexit Prime Minister, who seems to want to respect the will of the people. The first question I would like to put to the Prime Minister, which is probably also the biggest open door this evening, is what is the latest state of affairs. Where exactly are we at the moment? What can we personally expect from the Prime Minister to ensure that there is a deal between the United Kingdom and the European Union, which is acceptable to both the UK and the Netherlands, so that the country can leave the Union with an agreement? Mr. Chairman. There were heated discussions elsewhere in the EU buildings. Mrs Von der Leyen, the europhile friend of the VVD, will also have lost some of her initial enthusiasm for the well-paid job of President of the European Commission. The discussions and rounds of questions in the European Parliament culminated in a true political battlefield. Not only the Hungarian and Romanian candidates, but also the French parade horse of Macron had to clear the ground. The European Parliament, after the once again failed spitzencandidate experiment, naturally wanted its power to be exercised in the appointment of the new Commissioners. Where Von der Leyen's main mission was first to equalise gender balance in the new Commission, it will now be to install a new Commission at all before 1 November. The PVV will not be grieved if that fails, but it will be if that means that Juncker stays a little longer. The Netherlands has also sent a candidate Commissioner. Although Mr Timmermans initially said that he did not want to be Vice-President again, but only satisfied with the Presidency of the Commission, that promise did not appear to have been put into practice after the latter failed. In the new European Commission, Mr Timmermans is to be responsible for the European Union's climate policy. "Our own Greta Thunberg" was called by the MEPs. Quite apart from doubting whether these braids will stand him, that is a worrying remark. In my opinion, the Netherlands does not need a climate activist as a Dutch European Commissioner. When the climate pope Timmermans was on audience in the EP, he of course packed everyone with the twelve languages he is powerful about, which I am jealous of and with promises to dodge more money from the Member States. That is what happens in Brussels as a sweet cake. Mr Timmermans said in the European Parliament that rich EU countries like the Netherlands should contribute even more to the EU budget in return for Eastern European involvement in his ambitious climate agenda. Surely it cannot be, I ask the Prime Minister, that the man who wants to send the cabinet to Brussels, as the Dutch entry for the European Commission, calls for us to pay even more to that European Union? Does the Prime Minister endorse the statement made by his candidate in the European Parliament? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that such a statement would seriously harm the negotiating position of the Netherlands in that already rather difficult and debilitating negotiation process on this new budget? In the annotated agenda, we read that the Finnish Presidency is now proposing a total size of the new multiannual budget which is lower than that of the European Commission, but which, according to the cabinet, is still too high. Then the question is, what exactly do these Finns want? It doesn't say that surprisingly. It's in confidential documents that we can't discuss here. Previous speakers have already said something about this. That is a recurring discussion and frustration that we share with each other during every debate about the summit. Can the Prime Minister not just say what is on the table, how the Finnish Presidency's proposals came about and what was the Dutch contribution to it? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Mr Juncker said in a farewell interview that Prime Minister Rutte is a friend and that he has also become more European. I would just like to point out that with such friends, who want to take away the sovereignty of your country and knock the money out of your wallet, you no longer need enemies. Juncker also said that our Prime Minister is very influential at EU summits. Does the Prime Minister recognize this image?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u36	If so, is it not an excellent idea to use that influence in favour of Dutch interest? For example, the Netherlands has been an important net contributor for decades. Isn't it high time that this stopped and that the Prime Minister's supposedly above average influence is going to use it to significantly reduce the current Dutch contribution? Finally, Mr President. Do I understand now that the accession negotiations with Albania and Macedonia are not being opened at the moment, but that this is not being discussed at the European Council and that this discussion is therefore being moved to another time? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u37	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This will be the second time I have had the opportunity to discuss a European summit with the Prime Minister. I can't say that you get used to not knowing exactly what it's about and which pieces are all on the agenda. It is still a rather alienating experience that we should do it with the latest version of The Guardian on what is going to happen to Brexit, one of the most important parts of the European summit. It gets cold around the heart when you think about the way in which negotiations are still under way in the last few moments. We are very concerned about whether the Dutch interest, and indeed the English interest, the British interest, will come out well. The stories we heard during the London work visit do not give confidence in the level of knowledge about all the problems a Brexit poses. The Minister, Lord Callanan, assured us that he would meet every day. That's not comforting. We also meet here every day, without me thinking at home that we saved the whole country. That is the case there. That doesn't make me optimistic. In his time as mayor of London, Boris Johnson took the necessary U-turns without really falling off his bike. In doing so, he has sometimes done good things. I can draw some optimism from that. That hope should only be there, but I would like to have more clarity from the Prime Minister on how likely it is that a deal will come out with possible elements that we have not been able to prepare properly. I am therefore also concerned about our Dutch people, the fellow citizens who are in Britain. I'm sorry to mention "England," but after the divorce, it's gonna be more "Little England" than "Great Britain." Let me now turn to the rest of the agenda. Here too we look in the fog when it comes to what exactly is going to happen. What does the MFF bring us, not only in terms of contribution but also in terms of spending? Frans Timmermans said he would like to use 40% of the agricultural budget for climate change. Then he can count on our warm support, but the question is whether it really is going to happen. We also see here this week that we are talking about nitrogen............................................................................................................................................................................. We have taken note of the accession. As you know, we are not very much in favour of the accession of Albania and northern Macedonia at the moment. This does not mean that we want to alienate the countries, but the lessons we have learned from Romania and Bulgaria make us very reluctant to join these countries too early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u40	Thank you, Mr President. It's a packed agenda, so I'm gonna start right off with a couple of points. First of all, the Brexit. It is a continuous feeling of déjà vu, which has been going on for almost three years now. It's a repetition of moves that always seems to lead to a deal coming out. If there seems to be a deal, it has to go through the British parliament again. It now seems, as I understood from a remark made by Mrs Leijten, that British Prime Minister Johnson and the European Union are very close to a deal. I do not dare to feel reassured yet, but it would certainly be interesting to hear from the Prime Minister what he expects of it. Of course, it is not that a no-deal is almost certainly averted and we can now rest assured, because there is still a lot of uncertainty about the possibilities that exist. I am very curious to see what the Prime Minister thinks is the latest state of affairs on the Brexit issue. I look at it in two ways. On the one hand, I always say that you have to avoid a no-deal situation at all costs. But I also hear that there are more and more voices saying that we cannot continue to postpone. A no-deal means a disaster scenario. It means a step in the dark. It means enormous damage to citizens and businesses. We've talked about that enough here. But putting off indefinitely would mean actually saying: the European Union is, in a manner of speaking, an organisation that does everything to keep the British involved, whereas the British do not behave in this way. So I really hope that the current rumors lead to something that we all never expected to see, a constant of the past three years, namely that something will come of a deal. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, apart from the current situation, one question about the preparation of the Dutch cabinet for a possible no-deal, which is still far from being ruled out. What about the live animal inspection post? What about the medicine and the warranty to deliver? And what about the preparation of the companies? Mr President, so much for the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u41	Do you see Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u42	I would fool you and the rest of my colleagues if I said that I did not see Mrs Leijten standing. She's always at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u43	Yes, especially with you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u44	That's a little bit of her habitat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u45	Six months ago I tabled a motion together with Mr Verhoeven to prevent a no-dealbrexit at all costs, because we know it would not be good. It is also not good for confidence in the Heads of Government. Now he seems to have some doubts about that. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u46	What makes you think I'd doubt that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u47	On the one hand, because of what you are saying, but also, for example, because of what Mrs Kaag, the D66 Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, said in Het Financieele Dagblad: when the time comes, they should go. I think that's a very unwise attitude. I've just asked a few questions about that to the Prime Minister. Someone, in this case Mrs Kaag, is giving an interview for her own exposure. Or someone, in many cases Mr Macron, and Mr Johnson too, let it play so high for internal politics that a no-deal becomes inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u48	And you want to know what Mr Verhoeven thinks about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u49	I want to know where he stands, because he's always tried to avoid a no-deal at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u50	Sure. It's a fair question. I represent the D66 Group in the House of Representatives. The D66 Group in the House of Representatives has always held the view that we must do everything we can to prevent a no-deal, including giving room to the political process in the United Kingdom. We need to ensure that there is no need for sharp cutting, as I have often said, to be forced into a situation that could have been avoided. I sometimes hear my colleagues in the European Parliament saying things from a European perspective. I hear cabinet members of D66 saying things. Those are all things I'm not commenting on...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u52	The D66 has always been crystal clear. I have tabled several motions to allow for a postponement, so that at least there would not be a ride on a wall because everyone became too impatient. I think that's been a consistent line. I would like to say a few words about the climate, my second point. We want a climate-neutral European Union by 2050. That alone is not yet a European wish, because there are three obstacles, namely Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic. At least these countries do not want to cooperate in any way. What is the Dutch commitment, I ask the Prime Minister, to get these countries in the right position? I am also asking a little in the light of the opposition these countries have on other important issues in Europe. Perhaps there should be an opportunity to move these countries on one of the crucial issues for the future, where we all in Europe are facing a real challenge. What is the Prime Minister going to do to achieve uniformity in the Council at least in terms of climate ambitions? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Multiannual Financial Framework, the European budget. Mr Van Ojik has already said some sensible things about this, even before his phone was taken, which he now fortunately has back again, I understood. We are facing a very important negotiation here. As the Netherlands, we face the danger of falling into the trap of the wrong priority. By this I mean that we, as the Netherlands, are very much committed to a lower or at least no higher contribution. That is the commitment of the Netherlands all the time. But what is actually much more important is modernising the European budget. Especially in view of the great task and ambition of the European Union and of which we in this Chamber, with more and more parties, are saying 'just choose the major cross-border issues where this European cooperation is absolutely necessary', modernising that European budget should actually be a much more important effort than keeping it equal or lowering it. What I am so afraid of is that, in recent times, I have been saying it again in the debate with the Prime Minister, and I am also saying it often in debates with the Foreign Minister, that we are stepping into the trap of bringing in a lower payment or a reduction, while we are losing on modernisation. And I really mean reducing the CAP and cohesion funds significantly for more knowledge, for more innovation, for more digitisation, for more external border surveillance and for migration and security. If we, as the Netherlands, are happy because we have forced a discount, while the budget continues to set very many the same priorities, which are the wrong priorities, then we, as the Netherlands, are actually losing the battle. I am therefore afraid that the cabinet is blind-tailed on just one aspect. And I think that's a bad strategy. How does the Prime Minister see this game? Does he also see that in the European Council the number of countries that look at it very differently than the Netherlands is far in the majority and that this means that we are in a position that could ensure that we do not get what is in it? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk about enlargement. But I see Mrs Leijten is back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u53	How does Mr Verhoeven know that the Netherlands is saying on the one hand that it wants to reform, but that it will not do so because it will retain the discount? We have not received any public information at all. That is the problem: that we do not know what they are going to do in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u54	We have really discussed this on several occasions in various debates. The Dutch commitment to the MFF may not be traceable in certain documents, but in the debates we have been holding for two years. So I don't think I've said anything new in any way. Let me be very open: I have taken what I have said not from certain confidential documents, but simply from following the debates and my political weighting of the cabinet commitment over the last two years. So it's that simple. That's my political antenna.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u55	What we can get from the public information is that the Finnish Presidency has come up with a proposal which at least represents a lower budget than the European Commission has proposed, because it always wants more and more people to do so, but that the government is indeed making an effort even lower, because it would be better for us to do so. But is it not a problem that we simply do not know what minimum or maximum objectives this government has when it comes to these negotiations? Shouldn't we just know them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u56	I am not at all against maximum openness where that is possible for our Parliament. It is always hard drawn by several members of this Chamber. But negotiations are negotiations, and then we should not pretend that all this can be done completely in public. But I have based myself on the position of the Netherlands and on the answers of the cabinet to all kinds of questions from different parties over the past two years. This always shows that a lot of parties are saying that we must ensure that the Netherlands does not pay the European Union anymore. Mrs Leijten often says: more, more; caterpillar-never-enough; it all has to be more, more. To a large extent, it is also true that more tasks are to be assigned to the European Union. We have major cross-border tasks, of which everyone says: we need to tackle them at European level. I am not talking about money to Brussels, but I am talking about money to security, and I am talking about money to strengthen the internal market for fair opportunities for all businesses. Then I am talking about improving migration policy. It costs money. And climate ambition costs money, too. If you want to make serious work of that, it costs money. If more money is needed for charity, then D66 is not going to say: we need to keep the contribution as low as possible. No, then I say make sure that club can achieve those fantastic goals. And then we look at what it takes financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u57	Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u58	That's what D66 did with the teacher's salaries. No, when it comes to those European filled pots, last week we were told that there was 360 billion... 360 billion! - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. So what do you mean, more? All I ask is what this government's commitment is, with what ambitions, so that we can follow it. If we do not know them, then it can indeed be said that the government is only focusing on reductions and not on reforms. But we can't follow that at all, and that's the problem. If it's about more money, that's not necessary, Mr Verhoeven, I'd like to say. 360 billion is left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u59	Mrs Leijten made a comment about education at the beginning of her interruption. There is no party that has managed to free up so much money for education over the last ten years. At least that wasn't the SP, because they've never been in the government, which is their right. That must be said, so that the people at home know too, otherwise they will think that Mrs Leijten will solve all this. The second point is that Mrs Leijten has, of course, made an important point. It's good to say the same thing. The point about the money that is left is right in saying that, of course, the money is not meant to be put on the shelf, because that is not allowed at all. No, the money needs to be spent. I'm not off the line, so there's too much money. No, so the money isn't enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u61	My final point concerns the enlargement package. In addition, you can look at the situation in two ways, namely that the glass is half full or that the glass is half empty. If you say that the glass is half empty, you say: Albania and northern Macedonia may have done their best, but they are not far enough yet, or they are not far enough, or they will never get far enough to start accession negotiations. That is about the reading of a number of parties in this part of the House of Representatives, who actually say: we see that there are still some things that we are not so satisfied with, so these countries have to stay in the waiting room for a while. D66 actually looks at that exactly 180 degrees differently. We say that these countries are doing their best to take steps to better meet European values. Those countries have all kinds of organisations, groups and people there who want nothing more than a view of European Union membership to continue their good work for a progressive and democratic country with European values. They therefore need that perspective, that view of European membership, in order to continue to use their powers to make their country better. Those groups are actually discouraged by the line of people who keep saying: you are not yet good enough to start a very long journey. Because that is what I keep saying: opening the negotiations is not saying 'come and join'. That's how it's always proposed. No, that means that you say to the parties: you can come to the start to participate in a very complicated, complex, high-threshold and objectively tested process, the long measuring bar, with all the different chapters that need to be opened and then closed again. That takes decades for some countries. That's what we want them to get started on. Give those countries that perspective. Let them grow into something good. Give them hope, instead of always saying: you are not good enough yet. For at some point countries like China or Russia say: come into our sphere of influence, join us, as your allies or your normal partner do not think you are good enough. I don't think that's a good approach. We say: just open those negotiations, start opening all the chapters and make sure you objectively check every chapter, on the rule of law, on corruption, on free press.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u62	Were you even done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u63	No. I wanted to ask what the latest state of affairs is. There was some confusion about the conclusions of the RAZ, but I believe the question has already been asked. Is it true that it has indeed been said that there is no consensus yet? If that is the case, what is the position of the Netherlands at the forthcoming European summit on 17 and 18 October? If the Netherlands does indeed take the position that they are not yet allowed to take the step, then what is the perspective that we are offering these countries? What do we say to those countries that are told by us that they are not yet allowed to take the step?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u64	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u65	One last point, on the situation in Syria. That can be very short, because there's next week...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u66	No, tomorrow night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u67	...Excuse me, tomorrow evening a debate on it, but in view of the motions that are always put to the vote in the afternoon, I can imagine that there are parties who already want to say something about it. I would like to say, and I actually agree with what Mr Asscher has said, that we, as Europe, must use as one block heavier sanctions that go far beyond what has been said so far, namely the suspension of arms supplies. Does the Prime Minister believe that this is indeed what we need to achieve and is he going to make an effort to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u68	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u69	Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven's story about the opening of accession negotiations does not surprise me, because he knows what GroenLinks' position is, but I am also a little concerned about it. The cabinet also speaks on behalf of D66 in Luxembourg and Brussels. That's the fate of a coalition party. What can Mr Verhoeven do in the coalition over the next few days, between now and the European summit, to make his position, which I very much embrace, perhaps also the position of the cabinet? We talked extensively about the difference between "yes, if" and "no, unless." Mr Asscher spoke about the German approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u70	In general terms, Mr Van Ojik is aware that the influence of D66 in this cabinet is enormous. That's common knowledge. If D66 hadn't been in this government, it would all have looked a lot less good. Now, seriously, because I think the question is right. I say this with a wink, although you do not see it, but Mr Van Ojik pretends to be responsible for every cabinet. It also has something else to do with it and that is the position of the House of Representatives. There has been a rather large majority of parties in this Chamber in recent months who say: at least do not start negotiations with Albania. The motion has already been tabled three or four times and has not been supported by PvdA, GroenLinks and D66 alone. I believe that all the other parties, but maybe they don't, say that they don't want to. We are fighting together against a majority in the Chamber, Mr Van Ojik, but I am not fighting against my coalition colleague, because the Prime Minister is making motions that have been tabled by the Chamber. I regret that very much, because I think it is unwise, but I have already explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u71	This is a little too easy and perhaps a little too pessimistic from what we share. Last week we had a whole debate in which the German option also came through extensively. Actually, we said, maybe the difference between "yes, if" and "no, unless" isn't that big. I am now asking an influential representative of a coalition party, because he is in that coalition for a reason and because, fortunately, he thinks this is very important: look now over the next few days there is talk of so many things behind the scenes, whether you can steer the cabinet's position a little more in the direction we want together. And then Mr Verhoeven says: I am not that important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u72	It's always good to know about yourself. D66 has a position on this, with which we in the coalition are unique. What's going on? We sometimes talk to our coalition colleagues, also on this subject, and then I do everything in my power to move colleagues in the coalition, CDA, VVD and Christian Union, in our direction. That has not yet been achieved, so I will continue to do so, but I cannot promise more than that now, because it is not so easy to get these groups in that direction. By the way, all three are still talking, so we'll see what that gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u73	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u74	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u75	I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u76	Mr. Chairman. Europe is sleepwalking towards a major crisis. The combination of a chaotic Brexit, recurring IS fighters, an economic recession and an ECB that no longer has any means can become a very toxic cocktail for the EU countries and the West. There seems to be some sort of idea that EU summits should end up in a compromise here, a "fay, you should never do that again" statement there and the appointment of a few people. Let me be clear: at this European summit, time bombs will have to be dismantled step by step, if it is not already on the late side. Western countries seem to have lost track of dealing with geopolitical issues. Let me start with the Brexit. It's hard to predict what's going on here, but there's a lot at stake. A hard Brexit could cost one million jobs in Europe, 70,000 in the Netherlands alone. The risk of such a chaotic Brexit remains high. There is no clarity on the British side about who makes decisions, and if I read the latest reports, I would not even know whether the DUP still supports the government. I support my colleagues' questions. How are we prepared for the inspection posts for live animals? Is the NVWA ready? Because even with the deal that now seems to gloat, England, Wales and Scotland are moving out of the customs union, but not Northern Ireland, and things will have to be inspected. Of course I hope that is not necessary, that it was an unnecessary exercise to prepare us, but unfortunately it is necessary. Let me just say: politicians have spent the full two years and all the extensions used for decision-making, while those two years were just meant for citizens and businesses to prepare themselves. They can hardly prepare for the decision that we do not even know here, when we are talking about the sitting. Mr. Chairman. The Finnish Presidency takes transparency seriously and so does Mrs von der Leyen. So much for the good news, because when I look at the General Affairs Council press conference, for example, there are two videos about the public part of the Council: one takes three minutes and one takes one and a half minutes. In that of a minute and a half the sound falls away completely; no idea what they are talking about. I tried to understand what decisions were made there, and I'm a bit of an insider, but even I didn't quite understand it. There was no mention of Albania and Macedonia in those videos. I shall come back to this in a moment. There are huge steps to be taken in the area of transparency, because directives have been adopted in the General Affairs Council. Those are things that have legal power. That is what we should try to do here, adopt laws in a closed session, and then, at the end of the day, a two-minute broadcast from the President to say what has been adopted. But that is the level of openness we are talking about in the Union at the moment! Can we really expect steps? The Prime Minister promised it last time. I have been to the Venice Commission with Mrs Leijten. They're gonna do a study on what can be done better there. Well, we know that's a lot. But what exactly are we going to propose? Mr. Chairman. Then Turkey. Let me make it clear that this is a candidate country of the European Union. He's a NATO member. It invades a neighbouring country and threatens to come into direct combat with Russian troops. Mass murders are being committed and genocide is a possible scenario. The question is, then, when will the EU, if it does not take severe sanctions in these circumstances? This is what I meant by: geopolitics is unfortunately not just statements. I know it will require unanimity, so I know it will be difficult. But is the government prepared to at least make a proposal and see if there is support for suspending parts of the customs union and to ensure that there is no supply of arms or other goods for all fighting groups in Northern Syria together with Turkey? Can the government ensure that Schengen visas are not granted for officers, soldiers and fighters who have invaded Northern Syria and for those who fight in groups known to have violated or violated the law of war? Can we have a list of them sometime, so we know who isn't allowed in here? Mr. Chairman. We are also awaiting the implementation of the Omtzigt and Karabulut motions on the FSA in that case. The other questions on this part will be discussed in the debate tomorrow, but we are keen to bring it here now, because it concerns the conclusions that can be drawn at the European Council. They're supposed to be heavy. Then there is the accession of new Member States. We have just received the conclusions of the General Affairs Council: "In light of the Council's discussion on the Republic of North Macedonia and Albania, the Presidency notes that the Council will review to the issue after the European Council." It hasn't been translated yet, or maybe in the meantime, but I've been looking for a long time. Do I understand that this is not on the agenda of the European Council? That is exactly what I want to know: that we do not happen to be faced with a decision. Although Mr Verhoeven disagrees with our position, he has already explained the position of the majority of the Chamber: no opening of negotiations with Albania. There is no new interim report from the Commission or from anyone on which you could do it, I'm just saying. If we are not presented with a surprise after the Council, I ask the government. Mr. Chairman. This summit also formally decided on the appointment of Ms Lagarde as President of the European Central Bank. The reason for her presentation is not quite clear from the annotated agenda, but once every eight years politicians can say something about the ECB, namely who will be President. That also says something about the course. In my view, this appointment is probably more important than the appointment of Mrs von der Leyen as President of the European Commission. The challenge facing the new President of the European Central Bank is enormous. There is a totally divided Council on the direction of the ECB. It is also not good for monetary policy that this division is completely out on the street. The European Central Bank cannot go anywhere. The buy-back programme has become very damaging. That is why I have two questions. The government can encourage the planned review of monetary policy, including the instruments and models used, to take place quickly, so that we know if the Bank is doing the right things and whether it is evaluating them itself. Because, of course, it's not up to politicians to evaluate that? If you find this strange, she has already indicated that it makes sense. Mrs Georgieva, the director of the IMF, has already said that she is investigating this. At the moment, the Fed, the American central bank, and the Bank of Canada are doing such a review. In view of the extremely unconventional instruments and still not achieving the desired result, which is going to be inflation but not 2%, it is desirable that such a review should take place. Two. Can you make a plan to ensure that the damage to the Netherlands is reduced if this ECB policy hits the wall? You will not say it publicly, I say to the Prime Minister, but we expect and expect the Dutch Government to have a plan B ready at all times for when the current policy cannot go on or a country does not want to go on and can go on in the euro. That is a precaution that must be ready, but cannot be discussed openly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u77	Mr Van Ojik has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u78	I found it interesting that Mr Omtzigt said at the beginning of his story that the European Union, I do not know if I quote him quite correctly, it has actually been neglected to look at reality with geopolitical glasses. Then I would ask him to put on those geopolitical glasses and look at the discussion about starting accession negotiations with two countries from the Western Balkans. What conclusion would he come to from a geopolitical perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u79	I get the point. With the geopolitical spectacles on, there are people who say: get Albania, that is the country that we are constantly talking about here, because otherwise it will fall into the geopolitical sphere of China. For us, the other argument, namely whether Albania meets the criteria, is much and much more important, because we have learned that geopolitics as a Union will be weakened if we allow Member States that do not meet the criteria. We have seen this in Greece's admission to the euro, which my group has always voted against. For geopolitical reasons, that was an interesting idea, a country that was just in the process of modernising quickly withdrawing that euro, but we believe that it was not a good idea for either Greece or the euro area. If we could reverse that decision with retroactive effect, we would do so now. So we have the same feeling with Albania: perhaps nice for today's geopolitics, but at the end of the day it can also weaken us as Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u80	Mr Van Ojik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u81	It is a clear answer, but it is also a remarkable answer. Mr Omtzigt began by saying 'at least I understood him that he felt that we should look at more geopolitical glasses from Europe. In fact, if he had the chance, he would still like to do Greece from the euro, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u82	You have to quote me correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u83	Well, you said if I could do it again. I would call that a geopolitical blunder of the supreme order. I understand the balance, you have to weigh it up, but he himself is actually doing what he blames the European Union for. He puts off his geopolitical glasses when he has to make a very important decision on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u84	Then Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u85	Can I respond to that or should I do so after Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u86	Yeah, if you can. Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u87	I think it would be very good for Greece at the moment if they were in the Union, but not in the euro. Poland is doing very well economically, although we can find some things about the rule of law. There are plenty of countries that have been able to develop within the Union, within the framework of the protection of the Union, in that single market without introducing the euro. I also mention Denmark and Sweden. I think that we are doing so retroactively, and I hope that all of us think that if we could have avoided Greece coming in, we would have made that decision. That's different than saying I'd throw them out today. That is not the case, should that impression arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u88	I have a question about the lessons learned or lessons from the past. Mr Omtzigt is consistent in the way he puts it that Albania and northern Macedonia would take a step. In fact, he always pretends that this means that they join the European Union just about immediately. Mr Omtzigt is always quite precise in his terms. He's an insider, that's what he says about himself. He knows better than anyone that starting the accession negotiations or opening the various chapters can be a journey of decades that is measured objectively, especially on the basis of lessons from the past, and that it is reversible or can be stopped, as has also been shown, for example, in the case of the country he himself referred to: Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u89	Where do you want to go, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u90	I would like to ask why Mr Omtzigt has no confidence in the process of accession negotiations and the fact that they can last for a very long time and that there are all kinds of times when they can be shut down or interrupted. Why do you always pretend that it is about a matter of: you come to the start and you are equal members?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u91	Mr Verhoeven himself has already answered his own question. Let's talk about Albania. Those countries that wanted to do so had said that we would have a new report and a new weighting moment for Albania to see if there was progress in the areas of corruption, democracy and the rule of law. Look at what is happening in the second city of Albania and how the leaked telephone taps of top politicians there are not even investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office. There was supposed to be a new report. There isn't yet. Then there is not even an objective reason to start negotiations. And then you should start negotiating at one of these moments? If you do that, you let it look at the objective values already loose at this point. Does Mr Verhoeven think that this will be guaranteed further in the negotiations? I don't think so. And I think we should learn from mistakes in the past. Let me give you an example of a mistake that we can learn from. Why are we treating countries at the same time? Why did we do Bulgaria and Romania together? Why did we do these ten countries at the same time when the Cyprus problem was not resolved? Unplug them and see if countries are ready. These countries are not ready. A second point. Indeed, as Mr Verhoeven says, you must decide unanimously to open a chapter and close a chapter, so many unanimity points remain open. But I have to say in all honesty that once you start negotiations with a country, it is very difficult to start vetoing not to open the chapter on regional economy, I shall say. It doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u92	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u93	There are 27 countries in the European Council that have to take a decision on this. Of these, 25 believe that you should have confidence in the accession process, in opening all those chapters, in closing all those chapters, in deciding unanimously on all the steps that a country must take. Why, then, is it that the CDA and the VVD have no confidence whatsoever in ensuring that they can go through all those steps that a country must take in an objective way? Why should we not trust that if you put a country along the measuring bar, you can at some point say to such a country: we are not going to open the next chapter now because you are far from doing so, for example as regards the rule of law? Why not have that confidence instead of even making these countries appear at the start?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u94	A number of points in connection with this. It is not 25 countries, but 24, because it is France, the Netherlands and Denmark who are opposed to opening negotiations with Albania. I have no difficulty in taking a minority position. Sometimes I'm even proud of it. But the chapter that Mr Verhoeven did not want to open is exactly the chapter that is being opened. It concerns chapters 23 and 24 on the rule of law and democracy. So if he doesn't want to open those chapters, he even has to vote against it. I am talking about the example that Mr Verhoeven himself refers to. That chapter was the first chapter to be opened. I am also proud to be part of the CDA Group, which is pro-European. And because my group is pro-European, it has strictly adhered to the rules. This means that my group voted against Greece in the euro. Our group voted against Romania and Bulgaria in the Union because those countries were not ready at the time. And my group is voting against admitting Albania as a candidate country. My group has also voted in favour of a lot of other enlargements. Because we are strict every time, I think we have finally made the right choices. And so far, unfortunately, history has confirmed us equally. I wish it weren't Greece, or Romania, or Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u95	I have a very different question on a very different subject, namely the multiannual budget. I have not heard Mr Omtzigt about this, but are he really very curious about what the CDA thinks of the statements made by Mr Timmermans, Commissioner-designate on behalf of his cabinet and Vice-President-designate? Mr Timmermans said that rich countries such as the Netherlands could contribute more to the European multi-annual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u96	I am not waiting for this comment. A majority of the House has said here that we do not want that. The CDA also said that. That is where the negotiations on the MFF are at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u97	Can I conclude, then, that the CDA agrees with me that these statements by Mr Timmermans seriously harm the Dutch negotiating position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u98	At the moment, Commissioner Timmermans is also one of the outgoing Commission, which some Members here hate, but is still sitting, namely the Juncker Commission. On behalf of the Commission, he may make statements. I also think it is perfectly normal for the Commission to take a position in this field of action. He has that responsibility. He sits there on behalf of the Commission and not on behalf of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u99	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u100	Mr Timmermans sat there as a Dutch candidate Commissioner in the European Parliament hearing for his new candidacy as European Commissioner. I think your first answer was quite clear. You said the CDA wasn't waiting for that. Can I therefore stick to that answer, namely that it is not in the Dutch interest for the Commissioner-designate to make this kind of statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u101	On the contrary, I always appreciate different opinions, and also those of Mrs Maeijer. We have a responsibility here in the Chamber. The government has a responsibility here to fight for the Dutch interest. I will hold the Dutch government to that. The European Parliament will monitor the Commissioner. That is the relationship we have in Europe, however complicated it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u102	We have received an interesting report from the Clingendael Institute commissioned by the Chamber. It states that the European Commission is not only very political now, but that it has also taken political decisions in the past and has, sometimes consciously, sometimes unconsciously, looked away from the consequences that this has for countries, populations and so on. It specifically mentioned Brexit and the euro, but also internal labour migration within the European Union. Our Prime Minister is now on the move to discuss the new strategic agenda in the European Council. Wouldn't it be very good if the Netherlands asked for an evaluation of recent times? Shouldn't we even look at a question like "are we on the right path?" Wasn't that the promise after the Brexit, for example? How would the CDA look at an appeal from the Chamber to the Prime Minister to bring that in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u103	I have more or less already announced here that I am coming with a motion to see if there will be a review of monetary policy. That's one of the things I'm hardest at. I think we should look at our own policies on a regular basis. Nor do I rule out the fact that it is a good idea for the European Union to do so every now and then. As far as labour migration is concerned, there has also been a committee here in the Chamber which has made it clear that we were completely wrong with our predictions and also with regard to the consequences that that would have internally. We thought that 10,000, 20 000, 30,000 people would come from Central Europe, but that has become tenfold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u104	It was Secretary of State Rutte who then told us that there would be 40,000 people, and there are now 400,000. In itself, that's not all I mean by looking at labour migration. In the countries from which people leave, there is an increasingly loud call among those who remain behind to actually ban their countrymen from going. There is a faster ageing of the population. The countries themselves can't make it. There are huge construction stops. We are talking about building stops because of nitrogen, but in the countries from which people leave they are actually begging the European Union as a whole to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u105	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u106	The CDA Group, together with the SP, could call for a look at the impact of internal labour migration on the countries from which people leave and on the countries receiving people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u107	I'm going to see what proposal the SP is making on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u109	I have one minute and twenty seconds left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u110	Oh, yeah? But you spoke for ten minutes. And you've been interrupted, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u111	Can I have that back at some point with interest? With negative interest, I hear one of my colleagues say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u112	That's right. I agree with your colleague, but you spoke 20 minutes together, including interruptions. But we don't count them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u113	Mr President, thank you. By working together...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u114	Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u115	Sorry. Put in a quarter and I'll talk. Sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u117	I'll wait until I get the floor. Working together in the European Union will increase our security and prosperity. I'll get to Brexit right away, because Brexit is a veining. There's still a lot of uncertainty left. It's also unpredictable. Apparently, there's a deadline of midnight. But I'm gonna come up with a question anyway. Last week, during the preparation in the House of Lords at the General Affairs Council, it was said that it was rather silly, if the British asked for a postponement, but a short delay. Now give them room to hold a referendum and a new election. How does the Prime Minister view that? If the British ask for a postponement, do so long enough to hold a referendum and hold new elections. Then Albania and northern Macedonia. This was discussed today in the so-called General Affairs Council. Minister Blok was present on behalf of the Netherlands. What exactly was there for that? We could read that France wanted a break and a different approach to the accession negotiations. What exactly is that? What came out? What will the Netherlands do now? Last week, we agreed with Mr Blok that the motion tabled by the Chamber on Albania, I believe, was made by Mr Omtzigt, but also by the Christian Union and the VVD, is still leading. We assume that this is still the case. Then there's the Multiannual Financial Framework. I can be brief about that. We've been talking about that in the Chamber for a year and a half. We support the government's efforts there. Then there's the strategic agenda. In fact, there is something missing from Mrs von der Leyen's agenda, namely the completion of the internal market. There are still many, many billions to be earned. In fact, the European Union should do that. That is one of the basic reasons for her existence. I also said that Mrs von der Leyen's agenda was coloured by the European Parliament. That has the right to agree with the President of the Commission, or to vote against, to set that agenda. As far as the VVD is concerned, we only have the good elements of that agenda. But the VVD does not feel committed to what has been enforced by the European Parliament, such as that social pillar. That message can be sent to Mrs. Von der Leyen in the next few days. Then Turkey and Syria. It has already been said that there will be a separate debate on this tomorrow. Finally. This is what I noticed. We have often talked here about finding new allies and intensifying a relationship with new allies. Now two weeks ago there was a joint cabinet consultation between Germany and the Netherlands. I think that's quite unique. It is a good initiative, which has received very little attention. I am curious and I would like to hear from the Prime Minister the results of this cabinet meeting in Berlin on 2 October. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u118	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Mrs Maeijer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u119	I had a quick question about the supposed above-average influence that the Prime Minister seems to have in European summits. If I'm correct, you're one of the drivers of the Clingendael report. That is what has come of your initiative. That's the kind of thing that said. You also say that Mr Juncker describes that supposedly above average influence. I just heard Mr Mulder say that he supports the cabinet's commitment to the multiannual budget. But what if Prime Minister Rutte has such an above-average influence? Shouldn't we use that influence to make a fist for once to bring down our present payment? Should it not be the ambition of the Netherlands to substantially reduce our contribution compared to the current state of affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u120	In recent months, I have been sighing that Clingendael's report has led everyone in the Chamber who reads that report to come up with a huge shopping list for the Prime Minister whether he wants to break his hands in Brussels. Well, he may be trying to do that, but that's a side effect of that report. I believe that this cabinet has been working for a long time, for a year and a half, to reduce that budget compared to the proposal that was before it. That's going the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u121	I don't quite see that good side yet. We don't see very much about the way things are going, but that's another problem. However, Mr Mulder does not want to answer my question; fine. Then there is another question, which I also asked Mr Omtzigt. In this context, does Mr Mulder find Mr Timmermans' statements very helpful in the Dutch negotiating strategy to reduce the contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u122	Mr Timmermans is, of course, a member of the European Commission and is there as a member of the European Commission rather than on behalf of the Netherlands. Although he has been nominated by the Netherlands, his primary task is not to maintain the Dutch interest. A year and a half ago, the Commission's proposal to substantially increase expenditure came forward. At that time, Mr Timmermans was already on the Commission. I take note of this and wish the Cabinet much strength and, above all, success in reducing the amount proposed by the Commission, while ensuring that the money goes to the priorities of security, migration and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u123	Mrs Maeijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u124	However, this is a statement by a Dutch candidate Commissioner, nominated for the climate portfolio, at the hearing in the European Parliament. He is also the first Vice-President, so not just some baseball among the Commissioners. Surely you at least agree with me that this is not very helpful in our negotiations, which are already going to be so difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u125	No. As I said, Mr Timmermans has his own position there. It would have been better if he had said it should have been down; that would have helped. But for the rest, we have our own responsibility in this, and the cabinet must also take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u126	On the issue of the Multiannual Financial Framework, the group of the VVD supports the government's commitment. Mr Mulder said that once again. A number of colleagues and I have asked the cabinet: what is this commitment based on? What kind of calculations, considerations and priorities are behind this? Does Mr Mulder never have questions like that? He just says, "I support the cabinet's efforts, and I know what they're all like?" Well, then maybe you should catch me up sometime, but maybe it's not quite tonight. I'm so surprised that you can just say, "I support that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u127	It started before the Commission's proposal came forward. Mr Oettinger came here to visit. I was there with Mr Leijten. We asked him: just follow the Dutch method before you start with extra spending; just make a spending review of all the euros you spend and see if they are efficient and effective. All that happened was that he got angry and banged his fist on the table. So the European Commission has not done its homework with this budget at all, regardless of expenditure. The first thing you have to do is see what you can cut back on. That is what we are doing here in the Netherlands, with the so-called rethinks. That's what happens for every cabinet. The European Commission does not do such an exercise. Nay, they gather desires. Instead of choosing, they collect wishes. Then you will also encounter the DG Budget, the current Minister of Spain. He says: it is also good to spend money together as an end in itself. I say: with that mentality you will not get any further in the Netherlands; stronger, you undermine the support. Look at the support for the European Union. Take a look at the polls of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. The Dutchman does not want to pay too much to Europe. Take that into account, dear friends of the European Commission! Well, that had to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u128	I think this is a really good point. I think that is precisely why we are asking all this. For we are not going to say that the budget should go down as a punishment for the fact that the European Commission has not done its job or that a European Commissioner has become angry? We ask: what kind of considerations, calculations and calculations are the basis of the government's commitment? That was my question. I am quite prepared to be convinced of the fact that some money can be paid, but I have never really seen any reasoning trying to argue that, except what Mr Mulder is saying now, namely that the European Commission has made such a mess of it. That's not an argument, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u129	In the Netherlands we do that. Before we make a new budget, we look at efficiency and effectiveness. Then here we are doing something with all the amendments. If you want to spend extra money, you're gonna see what you're gonna cut back on. What is the European Commission doing? It grabs the agricultural agenda, a budget from the 1980s, and dares to narrow it down. If you cannot choose and simply place the bill with Member States, that does not help. That is not a budgetary mentality as we know it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u130	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u131	Then the amounts. You could say that a third is agriculture and a third is cohesion. Those are the big chunks. It's 350 billion in seven years. That's where you need to find it. That money then goes to security, climate and migration. That's how you do it. The European Commission is therefore not doing its homework. That is my first objection to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u132	Mr Van Ojik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u133	So you have to choose. I believe that is almost self-evident. Then the question to the cabinet is: I hope, in fact, that Mr Mulder will agree with that. We're gonna negotiate for at least another year. We want to have some insight into the choices that are being made and the costs involved. That's very important. That's what we do in the Netherlands. If we make a choice, let's go straight through a planning agency or something like what it costs and maybe what it gets. Let's do that here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u134	I wonder if the cabinet can indicate where it sees the loves, which pluses it sees and what the amount of them is. This has often been mentioned. The agenda for security and migration does not have to cost hundreds of billions. The question is whether we should. But I'm curious. On this point, I agree with Mr Van Ojik's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u135	Let's get this over with. Mr Mulder talks about the Dutch budgetary mentality, efficiency and the Dutch citizen, who does not want to spend too much on Europe. But it is the VVD that is always saying that Europe must tackle a number of major challenges of our time. The VVD, led by the Prime Minister, who increasingly began to see the European light, has moved forward by saying that Europe must tackle these major issues. You cannot ask for more activities on major issues without also making financial resources available. I never hear Mr Mulder say anything about reforming the budget. He only does this in response to questions and in response to colleagues. Then he says: yes, we need to reform cohesion policy and the CAP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u136	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u137	But he never says "we have to do that," when he always says that the payment can be slightly reduced and that the payment of the Netherlands should be reduced. So I do not think it is so consistent that you want to lay down more tasks and give less money to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u138	Mr Mulder, together with Mrs Leijten, has been rapporteur on your behalf on the multiannual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u139	I wasn't too excited about that duo. I've never made a secret of that either. That was a duo that only looked through the glasses of 'less money to Europe'. That is exactly my point: you have to look at the possibilities of making more money go to charities instead of just saying less money to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u140	Yes, you've made your point, Mr Verhoeven. A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u141	So we put the emphasis on efficiency at the time. That's what we're gonna find ourselves in as a room. But I am always clear: if you spend something extra on something, so does the VVD, namely in terms of major cross-border problems, security, migration and climate, then you have to take that away from something else. The big chunks are agricultural policy, 350 billion, and cohesion policy, about 350 billion in seven years. That's where you need to find it, with the big chunks. If I tell you something new here... I think I've been telling you this for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u142	Yeah, that's exactly the problem. You've been telling the same story for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u143	That's very consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u144	That story is gradually becoming less and less strong. I'm saying that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u145	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u146	Mr Mulder is right: agricultural policy and cohesion are indeed far too great a burden for what the future tasks of the European Union are. The main commitment of the cabinet and the VVD should therefore be to put the priority there. That is what I keep saying; I say this to Mr Van Ojik, who thinks that I do not do my job within this coalition and within the cabinet. Reforming the MFF should be the priority. What is the priority of the VVD, over and over again, in all kinds of different terms? There should not be too much money for Europe. I think that's a missed opportunity from a party that understands very well that if you lay down more tasks, you should also dare to free up more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u147	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u148	That would be leadership in the direction of Dutch citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u149	Every ordinary Dutchman knows: if you spend more in your household booklet, you have to spend less elsewhere. Europe should do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u150	Actually, I wanted to ask the VVD about something that she's unconsistent about. I am going to do that later, but I have to say that the VVD is very consistent in terms of the new multiannual budget. This also applies to a majority of this House of Representatives, because we have all supported the PVV motion that said: a smaller European Union, a smaller Commission, a smaller European Parliament and a smaller budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u151	The cooperation with Mr Anne Mulder was therefore good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u152	We were the rapporteur on behalf of the Chamber. We can handle this professionally, but I have a question about the social pillar. The VVD says: we are not waiting for a social pillar. But why did the VVD vote against a motion two years ago that said the Netherlands should not sign that social pillar? This is a voluntary transfer to the European Union and the European Commission, which does not even follow from the present Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u153	Mrs Leijten then had a very delicate debate on this subject with Mr Verhoeven. I need to get that back. That was about labour market, authority and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u154	Well, I wouldn't, because I want you to stick to the agenda anyway. That is the European summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u155	I raised that social pillar myself. In short, as far as this motion is concerned, I do not want us to have a European minimum wage, a full swing social pillar. Then I say: Article 150 and further from the European treaties say that this is a matter for countries themselves. There is no reason to transfer that sovereignty. That is not a major cross-border European problem. That's what I think, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u156	If the VVD had voted in favour of that motion in November 2017, the Netherlands would not have signed the social pillar, with which it would have voluntarily transferred powers with the exception of the article mentioned by the VVD. That's a missed opportunity. We may be able to retable the motion and say that we are no longer participating in the social pillar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u157	Okay. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u158	I look forward to seeing the VVD's proposal, because then there will be a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u159	I am not sure whether Mrs Leijten and I share the same view of the social pillar that Mrs Leijten is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u160	I don't think so, but thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I'm going to... You have made your point, Mrs Leijten, truly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u161	I think we know for sure which social pillar we are talking about, because there is only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u162	Oh, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u163	I'll still...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u164	No, don't. It's okay. Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u165	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I will begin with the Turkish attack on Northern Syria. Tomorrow we'll talk about it again in this room. It is a dramatic situation in Northern Syria, where Turkey continues its offensive against the alliance of the Kurds, the Christians and the Arab groups. It is good to read that the European Union and the Foreign Affairs Council have condemned Turkey's military action because it has put the stability and security of the area and the people living there at risk. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands, France and Germany have decided to stop supplying arms to Turkey immediately. The reaction of the Foreign Minister in the media suggests that all Member States will follow this example, but when I read the conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council, I see that this is not at all clear. I ask the Prime Minister to indicate where the Union stands, what the Member States have agreed with each other and what the commitment will be for the European Council. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this should be a firmer step towards speaking out against Turkey and also taking appropriate sanctions. In this context, I would also like to ask how the other Member States have responded to the call from the Netherlands, if it is right, to call for the immediate cessation of accession aid to Turkey. How has the force field been changed by the Turkish invasion of Syria, I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. They're daily rates. We were in London last Monday. Then we got the impression that there is still no view of appointments and a deal before 19 October. The British were in the state of negotiation. We've noticed. When I now read the report of the General Affairs Council, I see that the cabinet writes in it that negotiations are taking place day and night. That's a big deal. As my colleagues have done, I am asking what exactly is the latest state of affairs. When I read the report of the General Affairs Council, I see that tomorrow Mr Barnier will inform the Member States and also the European Parliament of that latest state of affairs, that he will give a positive advice to the Council if there is an agreement that meets his mandate and that he will ask for a short delay if the agreement is within reach. I am missing the third option, which was on the table last Monday. What if there is no agreement for this European Council? Then we know that a law has been passed in the United Kingdom ordering the government to ask for a postponement. Once again, like last week, I am in favour of taking ample time from the European Union to grant this postponement and to reach good agreements, so as to prevent a no-deal from coming to an end. 'Cause that's in nobody's best interest. Mr. Chairman. I am also asking about the Dutch preparation. Last month, the cabinet used additional help for entrepreneurs and healthcare institutions to prepare for the Brexit. 80% to 85% of Dutch entrepreneurs have started preparations, but more than half are not ready yet. What's the situation now? I'm asking the Prime Minister. Then there is the enlargement agenda. Last week I indicated that the Christian Union is of the opinion that Albania is not ready to open negotiations with it. They really need to make further progress in tackling corruption and organised crime. If I read the report of the General Affairs Council correctly, it seems that no decision will be taken at this European Council. But won't it be discussed? Can the Prime Minister tell us what that is supposed to mean? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union supports the cabinet's commitment to the multiannual budget. Mr. Chairman. On the MH17, we read in the annotated agenda for this European Council that the Prime Minister is again planning to underline the great importance of full cooperation by all states, including Russia, in the investigation of the JIT. The Christian Union supports this and welcomes the fact that the Prime Minister is taking advantage of every opportunity he has to bring this to the attention once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u166	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u167	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u168	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the situation in Syria, on which we will also have a debate tomorrow. Then I come to Brexit and I walk past the other themes. I think I have to say a few words about Syria in this debate, also because groups have said something about it. Look, I think we are very much in agreement that we all have great concerns about the situation in Syria. I think that was also expressed in a debate here last Thursday. I share those concerns. I also understand the desire to do more. On Monday morning, I called Stef Blok, Minister of Foreign Affairs, who was on his way to Luxembourg, about how we would see things going in terms of condemning and supplying arms. We went through the playing field together, and it just didn't look good. Quite frankly, it looked bad Monday morning. My expectation was therefore that little would come out. Given the expectations of Monday morning, which were very low in view of the assessments of the political playing field in Europe, I have to say that I have been disappointed in the fact that I managed to reach that joint conviction at the Foreign Affairs Council. With regard to arms supplies, the statements made lead to a defacto suspension. That's what Mogherini said. It does not go as far as we would like here in Parliament, but it is de facto a suspension. What has not been achieved, for example, is a commitment by the Netherlands to the cessation of pre-accession negotiating aid; this has not been achieved. Now, of course, tonight's question, and also tomorrow night's question, is how we proceed with it, also towards the European Council. My assessment is that I really want to share with you that the Foreign Ministers did not speak there without very intensive backing from their Heads of Government and Presidents. So I have no expectation whatsoever that much will change on Thursday or Friday, if the situation does not deteriorate further, because then there will be another situation, even though it is almost unthinkable how the situation could deteriorate further. But if there are important new developments that are, if possible, even worse than they already are, I do not see them here but honestly say that the political playing field is changing, which could lead to more from the European Council than the Foreign Affairs Council. I'm just sharing that in plain sight here. I'm not satisfied with the outcome either. I would have wanted more, just like the Chamber. But given the way things were on Monday morning, I think at least more has come out than expected. Fortunately, we now have the joint conviction and the defacto suspension of arms supplies. But on other points, we have not made any progress. I would also like to say here that I will repeat that tomorrow evening, and I hope that the situation will not be further deteriorated if there are opportunities to move forward on Thursday or Friday, we will, of course, seize that opportunity. But there is also no point in giving the impression here that Thursday and Friday will succeed in making far more statements than the RBZ did on Monday. Against that background, the point of the returners. This is, of course, the subject of intensive coordination with other European countries. The position of all those European countries is actually the same. We all say: trial in the region, because the situation is now far too dangerous to get people out of there. This has been discussed very regularly with the European partners, both between the Members of the Court of Justice and between the Foreign Ministers and myself, where appropriate. As far as I am concerned, this is about the playing field for this debate in view of the questions that have been asked about the situation in Northern Syria. Once again, we will be discussing it in detail tomorrow. That would be my response to the various comments made in this debate on Syria. Then I'll continue Brexit, unless someone from the Chamber interrupts about Syria. If not, Mr. Chairman, I'll come to Brexit. I also saw the messages in The Guardian. By the way, it doesn't say that it's finished, but that it's "on the brink of." It's been that way for a while. You know the situation. We're trying to get out. It was all stuck. I had my own contact with Johnson last Saturday, and I have to tell you that didn't make me more positive. In the course of that week, the picture deteriorated further, even after contacts with Germany and France. But, frankly, the situation has improved since the meeting with Taoiseach, the Irish Prime Minister, and Johnson. So there seems to have been further proposals from England. You read about it in the papers, too. The newspapers are often well informed. Let me confine myself to this, because I cannot explain these proposals in a formal sense. Of course, they go to Barnier in confidence. It negotiates on our behalf and has our full support. You know that the big problem is the Irish border. The least difficult problem still seems to be how to deal with the sovereignty of Northern Ireland versus Europe in the long term. The much more complicated issue is how to prevent controls on the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland. There are now suggestions and proposals for this. They also require a great deal of technical work. The goal is, of course, to try to get out, preferably tonight or tomorrow. Tonight I even thought the extreme, wants to lead to something Thursday or Friday. But at least it doesn't look bad. That's all I can say about it. But it can of course be worse tomorrow, if it turns out that some clarifying questions cannot be delivered by England. I sincerely believe Johnson is trying to get out. I can tell by everything. I don't have the impression there's a game being played. Looking over all that, it could come around in the next few hours. Then you could come to a positive decision on Thursday or Friday. I feel entitled to do so, also with the support of the Chamber, because I think we know exactly what such a deal should be. We don't have to convince each other about that. If it does not succeed, the question of extension may arise, but the British will have to ask for it. That Benn Act is an internal British phenomenon. That's not up to us. We're not talking about what Johnson does. But if he suggests an extension, the Netherlands will of course take a positive look at it, especially if this extension is needed because all kinds of technical things still have to be figured out or to give a positive development a chance. But it could also be that, if it doesn't work now, we will have to get together before the end of October. That can't be ruled out either. Of course, it's a very tight day, but it looks a little better. Once again, they must make an extension request, but we will always try to take a positive look at it. Then there must be an event, or the feeling that we will be able to get through this extension, or that the British have elections or referendums or whatever. I also agree with everyone who says: do not make this extension too short. But they're all luxurious discussions, because I'm not going over it. I'll deal with it eventually, but it starts with the British, who have to make the request. They must request an extension. Only then will that be a possibility. So we have to use the time until the end of October. Then the question about a few practical things on our side. We have also been back together with the most concerned ministers this afternoon and have been going over the state of preparations for a possible hard Brexit. There are a few specific things about that. It is still difficult to get around the business case for the inspection post for live animals. At the request of the Committee on Agriculture, the Minister for Agriculture promised a letter on 25 October on the state of preparations for the NVWA and the inspection post. There is also an AO tonight about the Dutch Food and War Authority, the NVWA. That is either in progress or has taken place. You can see that most of the companies are really doing well with the preparations. Over the last 18 months, all kinds of measurements have been made in the investigation of the Chamber of Commerce and Kantar. Between 75% and 85% of entrepreneurs doing business with the United Kingdom are now preparing. I hope, of course, that because of the positive messages they don't think that they don't need to now. I hope, of course, that these positive messages are correct, but I also hope that they will continue, thinking that things can still go wrong. The Minister for Medical Care has recently informed the Chamber extensively about the medicines. The government and all the parties involved in the care work together and make a great effort to avoid undesirable consequences as much as possible and to ensure continuity. The guarantees that nothing will happen, we cannot give, but that the maximum will happen. We will also, if it comes to a hard Brexit, sit very intensively together those days of 30 and 31 October and 1 November to, if necessary, take care of business in the moment. Mr Asscher asked about the Globalisation Fund. It is true that this has a minimum threshold of 500 redundant workers. This may be waived in the case of collective applications by SMEs. They must be well-founded. For the second time, I would like to ask the public whether it is possible to lower that limit, but the answer I can give now is: if it is added up to 500 employees and it is well-founded, so can we. Therefore, it does not have to be one company, but can also be a collective application by SMEs, which must be well-founded. I do not have the answer to the question as to whether there is a chance of lowering that threshold. This will probably lead to fuss again, as more companies will be entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u169	It seems to be a small point and we all hope that it does not come to that. But if that shock comes, if it hits small and medium-sized enterprises and if it affects more than 50 employees, then that is the limit I am proposing, then I think it is rather much to be asked to say: look for nine more companies that have been hit and apply together. So my request is not: take care of it. My request to the Prime Minister is whether he wants to work for a lower limit in the interests of Dutch workers and companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u170	I shall come back to this in the second term, because I am not sufficiently prepared for the answer and I think I should be. So I will come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. That was the issue Brexit as far as I'm concerned, unless there are any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u171	Mrs Leijten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u172	I had asked the question what the atmosphere would be if there were a delay. Does the Prime Minister think there's room for that? Or have positions been taken, perhaps for internal use as Macron regularly does, which means that we no longer see that space?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u173	I notice that until a few weeks ago, when it was all stuck, everyone said: no delay without a solution or a new development, for example an election or a new referendum. The situation is different now. What if it got stuck right now because you just couldn't get out when you're a long way away? Then I think you have a very different discussion than a week ago, when it seemed like we weren't getting anywhere. It also changes by the minute. As is well known, the Netherlands is not waiting for a delay at all if there is no preliminary view that something will come out. The Union must move on again. But now it seems that we may be coming out of it, or that the British are saying that something new is going on, which they will then have to indicate. We in the Netherlands have always said: if there is a new event in substance or politically, then you have to take a serious look at it. I have the impression that most of my colleagues... I'm just looking at my counselor, Stibbe, who's looking for eye contact with me. Does he agree with me that this is about the image? Yeah, that's about what he hears back from his contacts, and I get out of my contacts. So it's a little less hopeless than it looked a week and a half ago. In that hopelessness, no one was waiting for a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u174	I am not very reassured by this answer. Last week there might have been a deal, but then Barnier, the negotiator on behalf of the remaining countries, said: no, this is really not feasible. Today there seems to be a breakthrough, but the risk of tomorrow being said that it is really not feasible is great. Johnson will have to ask for a delay on the 19th, the day after the summit. Then he may not have any reasons and so the conclusion is: then we will not grant the postponement. Is that really that hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u175	No. It's all very fluid. The most important event you want to avoid is that they crash out without a deal if there's still a chance to get out. At the moment the atmosphere is really not: everything is stuck. I'd be surprised. But I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u176	Two things. First of all, it would always be better for the Netherlands to grant postponement than to express the British. At least I think so. But the second question is: what does it mean when Johnson says at the top that he has a proposal that he will defend in his own parliament? Then we may have the idea that there is a deal, but on the British side it is only certain that there is a deal after it has been dealt with in the House of Commons. And that means we still don't know, even after the weekend, if there's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u177	It's so complex. That is, of course, exactly the problem we have. At first it seemed very difficult to come out of all the red lines. Now there's movement. It seems to be winning so far, but if you start reading the tea leaves in London, you will see that it can still count on support in a number of hardened factions within the conservative group. But you don't know exactly. You don't know exactly what the Labour Party's gonna do either. You probably need it to get a majority. The same applies to the Northern Irish Protestant Party, which has ten seats. I call the 21 Members of the House, or how many of them are now: 30, I do not know exactly what Tory Members of the House have been deported. So, that's another big one. But it's not hopeless. It is my observation of the state of play of the talks now that it must still be acceptable for a majority in the British Parliament, given what they all found earlier. That's my assessment. The advantage would, of course, be that the whole of Britain would no longer be in a backstop for years. Of course, that's the advantage. That is the way it is moving: that the backstop situation with which you keep the whole UK for a very long time, until there is a technical solution for the border, in a customs union and keeps it connected to the internal market... That seems to be going a different way now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u178	It is precisely the force field in England that is difficult for us to predict, because the same magazines also talk about a front of people who do not want a Brexit and who want a second referendum. As a result, there may be a negative judgment, because Johnson needs to get back a lot of his outcasts and convince others. That is the dilemma that the summit is so directly concerned with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u179	Yeah, that's right. And what we're not about. That's tricky. I agree with that analysis. Mr Van Otterloo is right. What we have to relate to, of course, is the question: can you come to anything with this British Prime Minister? Maybe now or else soon, where you probably need time to get that all on paper technically. I don't know if all that's gonna work. Fresh two becomes: is that going through the British House of Commons? That last thing, that's really reading tea bars. I just tried. If you now see through your eye hairs about the landing ground where this could end in a positive way, I can see the pluses that should allow you to reach a majority, given the attitude of all of the House members. But no guarantee. You don't have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u180	Mr. Asscher, about the Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u181	I didn't just ask a question about Syria, but I do have a question. That's annoying, but that's the case. Do you want me to ask that question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u182	It's fine, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u183	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u184	The Prime Minister said: 'I talk very often to my colleagues about the phenomenon of extravagants', but I think we agree that something has changed after the weekend. At least there are reports of escapes. It concerns thousands of people who may be released in the next few days and hours and then face their victims in that area where it is already so unsafe. My question is not about making a choice now in the coalition dispute, about how to deal with it. However, it is aimed at agreeing with other European leaders that you will work together, that you will make the analysis of the risks together, that you will consider together how things are changing and that you will, if possible, work together on a plan of action to protect Europe and the Netherlands. My question is: is the Minister prepared to hold that discussion? It is on the agenda of the European Council. And this is really new to the situation as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u185	Not a plan to make. No, I'm against that. What we are doing is having close contact, not so much at my level, but certainly at the level of the Minister of Justice and of the security people. I see Europe moving in a very united direction there. In fact, everyone believes that no people should be brought back and that people should be tried there. At present, bringing people back, in the current situation, as it has arisen, is quite impossible because of the security situation. If people are going to walk there, that's a situation you have to relate to. Then it is not the case that everyone can just go back, if one wants to. If people report to us that is the current policy at a Dutch post office, then what we always do is that we keep them under guidance, secure them and look further here. But then you have to report to a Dutch post. So there's intense contact about it, but making a plan gives the impression that we're going to do something new. There is no one in Europe at the moment, not even because of the situation that has arisen today, who says that we are going to take people away for all kinds of reasons, but also because the situation on the ground there is now too dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u186	The Prime Minister responds twice to a question I have not asked. I didn't argue for getting people out of there either. Many dangerous IS fighters are now being released in the area, where they encounter Jezidis who should not be confronted with murderers and rapists. There is also a risk of crossing the border with Turkey, after which it will be much easier to reach Europe. My question is not to make a plan to bring them all back. My question is to identify and respond to security risks with other European leaders. Come along with an approach. Don't call that a plan, just respond to it. I do not understand that this is not happening, on the basis of the responsibility to keep the Netherlands and Europe safe, a responsibility that also extends to citizens in that area. Nor can you say that they have to figure it out, because they have suffered enough from the IS fighters who have gone there from our countries. The least you can do is pronounce on that and take care of it. That's what I asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u187	My answer is that there is almost a permanent dialogue in Europe, for years, certainly at this time too, between the people in Europe in the field of foreign affairs, the people involved in the fight against terrorism, in order to constantly identify the situation and whether or not it calls for a different approach. That's not patch-by-step, like: now we've had a discussion, we close it and after two weeks we move on. That consultation is going on all the time. Our counter-terrorism coordinators have this dialogue in Europe with each other. They're looking at how this is developing. I am not saying that Mr Asscher is in favour of bringing people back. I didn't hear him say that. That was not my intention either, but making plans or other things could give the impression that there is going to be a major policy change. That's not what I'm here for. I'm in favour of not being naive and watching what happens. Those who are experts in this area must be asked to do so in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u188	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u189	I find the answer that there is continuous and constant consultation on the state of affairs unsatisfactory, given the developments over the last week. I think it is important in the direction of the Netherlands, in the direction of the people there and in the direction of other countries in Europe that the Heads of Government who are going to talk about this issue should take a stand on this issue and take care of it. I expect the Prime Minister to do the same. That's not something you delegate to a constant consultation of national coordinators. There is more to it, and that also requires more leadership than I hear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u190	Then we disagree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u191	I do have one more question. We are going to talk about it again tomorrow and we also said last week that there should be something of a plan. The Prime Minister says he doesn't want a plan and he has constant consultations. The question then is what the approach is now. There's 800, 900, maybe more IS fighters escaped. There is a risk that they will regroup under the flag of IS. So what's the approach? I can imagine that the Prime Minister doesn't think Louis Asscher's proposal is a good idea, but what is his approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u192	It is not the case that we have access to that area in a formal sense and that we can act there. That is simply not the case. What we have to do is to ensure that Europe's fortress closes as much as possible to those who would decide to return here on their own authority. This is partly because these people are all included in the Schengen information system. They're well-known explorers. In the case of identified extra-travelers, there is a European arrest warrant. Passports have been reported and declared invalid. That doesn't mean no one can get through it. It can always be that people slip through it or hide in a refugee stream. But it's not as easy to get into that fortress of Europe now, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u193	We also have a debate tomorrow on Syria and Turkey. I don't know if they're the same spokesmen, but I don't think the other spokesmen are quite... Mr. Van Helvert is here. He thinks we should stop now, because tomorrow is the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u194	We can delete the debate tomorrow. No, there's still plenty to talk about. There's a lot to talk about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u195	Good. Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u196	I am, of course, responding because the Prime Minister is giving a comprehensive answer to Mr Asscher's question, and that seems very good to me. My question would remain as follows. The Prime Minister says it's not that easy. But we know, of course, that the risk is that people who are out there at some point will be able to show up in a place where you don't want them. So you could say that we in Europe, preferably together, have to make a plan for that. Then the Prime Minister says to my surprise "No. A plan? Don't touch me with that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u197	No, because a plan gives the impression that you're saying, "We're gonna get them back." I didn't say Asscher advocated retrieving, but a plan does give that impression. I think that's unwise. Moreover, it is now simply impossible to enter that area in a safe manner. So what you have to do is use the whole toolbox that you have to prevent accidents, as much as possible, without guarantees. That is keeping the fortress of Europe closed, without it being able to be 100% closed. I have outlined the existing policy, for example how we deal with people who report to Dutch posts. Furthermore, of course, we are doing this intensively. Blok and others are saying to Turkey: now that you are interfering in this way, that also means a responsibility for the camps that lie in that strip. That is a view which the Turks share in themselves. So it's not something they say is bullshit; they understand that too. In this way, of course, we are trying to use this whole toolbox to prevent accidents as much as possible. There is, of course, constant contact with the experts about what we have to do, where we have to act, etc. But again, a plan gives the impression that your policy is going to change, and I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u198	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u199	Yes, Mr President, I will come to the enlargement debate. It is indeed on the agenda of this European Council, because it has actually been said by the General Affairs Council, or the Foreign Affairs Council, that this must now go to the European Council for political direction. I am not going to repeat what the Netherlands thinks again. You know that we believe that both countries have much to do. We say North Macedonia is a lot further than Albania, so if you say it homely: in northern Macedonia, I think we could all live with a situation where you say 'if you do all that homework, then the Commission can decide to start accession negotiations'. But not in Albania. There's a lot of homework to do there, too. Then it is the European Council that needs to look at it again on the basis of a Commission report. That's actually the Dutch position. In response to Mrs Leijten, who said a few sensible things about this. You'll also have to look, I say with her, at the whole system of expansion. Not to go so far as to take it away from the Commission, but one of the things we are also discussing with the French is whether you should not go to a whole new enlargement system. In doing so, you do not start with chapters 23 and 24 of the rule of law, where it goes further. But then you would say: you always start with those two chapters, and then it stops completely. The veto then actually moves from the start of the negotiations to the conclusion of Chapters 23 and 24. Those are exactly the chapters where all the homework is often in. Then it stops and there's a new veto moment. Only then can you decide to continue. If you carry on, those two chapters will remain open and I thought other chapters too. If during many years there is no track record built on 23/24 or if there is even regression, you can drop on the gooseboard. Then you can say: sorry, but we stop again, because you are not doing what you promised earlier on 23/24 and/or you have not built a track record, so we will go back to 23/24 and will have to do it all over again before we can go on again. I would be very much in favour of such a change in the system, so we are looking at that together with France. But the question of how to change the entire expansion system is a separate discussion. The question is how to move the veto moment from the current moment, the opening of negotiations, to a veto moment after 23/24 has been successfully completed. Then you can stand a bit more relaxed in front of opening 23/24: boys, let's see. Actually, that's the current homework. Then there is the possibility of a veto. That would be my opinion. Anyway, they're all birds in the air. The Dutch position is known. We are not alone in that, by the way. The tricky thing about the whole playing field is that a number of countries think you have to link it up, so you can't treat northern Macedonia differently than Albania, while other countries think you can unplug those two. The Netherlands thinks it is best if they are decoupled. So we can live with some more positive decisions in North Macedonia, because there is really more progress, provided they do their homework. But if you look at Albania... Well, you know our letters about that. I'll get the papers. If you look at things like the fight against corruption, organised crime and a whole series of other things, then you just have to see that Albania is not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u200	Was this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u201	Yes, this is about enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u202	And that goes for North Macedonia, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u203	Yes, for both countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u204	Okay. Then, first of all, there is a question from Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u205	The Prime Minister also knows that the PVV has something else in it. We do not want enlargement. But what about the Dutch Government's position on opening negotiations with North Macedonia? Is it a 'yes', is it a 'yes', is the country then going to meet those conditions and then comes the so-called intergovernmental conference on which it is officially launched? Or is it a 'no', we do not agree, but do they have to meet these conditions and then discuss it in November?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u206	It's in between. The final question is who is triggering the accession negotiations. In Albania, we say: they have a lot of homework to do and then you have to talk about it again as a European Council on the basis of the Commission's report. Because that happens with unanimity, you also have the possibility of adopting it unanimously. For northern Macedonia, we say: there is a lot of homework, but when that is done, it is the Commission that can decide, as far as we are concerned, that North Macedonia may begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u207	I think that is a matter of particular importance, because this is simply a decision taken unanimously by the European Council and not by the European Commission. Or do you now decide unanimously in the European Council that the European Commission will decide on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u208	It's always like that, isn't it? As a European Council, you can say that you reserve the right to look at it again on the basis of the Commission's report. That is our position with regard to Albania. But you can also say, and that goes for negotiation as well... We are now ready to say about North Macedonia: well, okay, possibly, but then we have to do homework, and then the Commission will assess whether the homework has been done. Because North Macedonia is really far beyond Albania.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u209	Finally, Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u210	But then you simply give up your veto, in the hands of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u211	No, you're taking a step. For Albania, we say no. There is still one major concern about North Macedonia, the position of the Special Prosecutor. That's actually the big point that's still alive there. So there is something else that has to be done. There are a few other things that need to be done, but above all that point. Look at North Macedonia's relationship with NATO, look at the name change, look at some positive domestic developments. We really see a different situation in northern Macedonia than in Albania. But again, also material does not seem to mean much further because most countries feel that they should remain connected. And if they remain linked, the Netherlands says: yes, but then neither can North Macedonia, because then the toughest position will be taken. And that's "don't do it," because we don't want Albania.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u212	Could the Prime Minister explain to me how you can come up with this combination? We are not going to give two countries the opportunity to start accession negotiations at least it looks like this, but we are going to change the accession process and make it more high-threshold. I can't reach that combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u213	No, it's two different things. It has nothing to do with those two countries. I do not like the accession process. I'm not okay with you saying right now, guys, when you finish 23 and 24, those chapters close and then we'll believe it; after ten years, when you've done the rest, you can join. I think that we are all particularly concerned about the previous accession of Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia, on the rule of law and all matters relating to the legal system. They are to a large extent in those chapters 23 and 24. I would argue in favour of a system where you say that countries should do it completely and then you're going to decide explicitly with each other whether you can go on. But if you continue, you will also see if a track record is being built and if you don't, you will go back. For me, this is separate from North Macedonia and Albania, because there is no such system. This is a response to Mrs Leijten. She goes one step further and says that you should take it all away from the Commission and put it to the Council. I would not want to do that, because the Council does not have the instruments to decide whether a country is ready. Of course, a body has to look at this and that is the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u214	Then I find it... Coincidence exists. It even plays a very important role in life. But in this case, I do not want the debate on the accession system to happen at the same time as the debate on these two countries. I think it's connected. I think it's a weird combination. On the one hand, we say: we are going to change the whole system far and wide in the future, because we think that the system is no longer okay. You can find that; that can be an opinion or an opinion of various Heads of Government and so on. On the other hand, we are not going to let two countries that are now on the threshold take the step. I think that is a crazy combination of two points. Then you can say: yes, Mr Verhoeven, those are two separate points and I find this and I find that. But that is not how it came about. That has some coherence; that is almost impossible. I don't think it makes any sense in that combination anymore. I would say: you are taking a step as Europe and you are trying to move towards a new system where we are giving countries a chance. Or you say we're not giving these countries a chance, but we're sticking to the old ones. But that doesn't happen, and I just find that strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u215	It just doesn't add up. If that were true for us, we wouldn't want to take a step in North Macedonia now. We would like to take that step in North Macedonia, despite the fact that the accession system has not changed. Within the current system, we say that you could take that step in northern Macedonia and not in Albania. It is true that this has also been noted that other countries, including France, have said that there is an issue about the enlargement of the European Union at all. That's why we're talking to the French. We have ideas on how to improve the entire enlargement system so that you can get away from the stress of whether or not a country can start. You know, there are two chapters; let's see you're ready. And when you're done with that, we're gonna decide if we're gonna move on. But as we continue, we also want to determine with each other whether you have built a track record. That seems to me to be a sensible system, because the great concern is always there, let us be honest: in all those countries in Eastern Europe which are now concerned about the question of whether the rule of law, the independent judiciary, the special prosecutor, the prosecutor, the constitutional principles are all sufficiently secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u216	Finally, Mr Verhoeven, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u217	Quite apart from the fact that that may change, that at some point in the future it has been different in the past too, there may be a very different emphasis on very different chapters of a very different character and that this is difficult, I think it is oddly blind staring at the current situation. This is not at all in line with the situation in the past, for example with Greece: no accession to the Union, but with the euro. I think what we are saying to Albania and northern Macedonia is far more important. So what is the perspective that we are offering these two countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u218	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u219	On the one hand, a new accession system and, on the other hand, not starting at the moment, because it is a package and the Council is sticking to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u220	They had, have and keep a European perspective. That is also very important, because of course we do not want them to turn away from a movement towards the European Union. But we also have to be firm: boys, we have... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Honourable House of Representatives. We have, of course, had to observe in the past that in a few countries I do not mention names, but they really do have the fried pears things happen without those countries being completely ready, because we said that there was some historical need to take that step. Once again, in northern Macedonia, I get it, because there we are a long way, but not in Albania. That's one thing. Then there are the French who say that you should look at the whole system: is the Union really ready for enlargement and what about the enlargement system? There are a few things bothering me in that expansion system. I'm sketching it right here. For me, that's separate from this. If it were linked, we would not want to move in northern Macedonia now. We are prepared to do so. I do not expect this material to produce anything, because so far a number of countries have maintained the link between these two countries. Both of them can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u221	Then Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u222	I'm just trying to understand what the Prime Minister is saying. He says that the subject is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u223	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u224	Then my question is whether a decision on opening accession negotiations with Albania and northern Macedonia is expected at the European Council this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u225	With Albania, many countries want that, but a number of countries do not, and it must be unanimous. The Netherlands is against it, you know our commitment. In northern Macedonia, we would opt for the 'yes if' variant, so the Commission has to determine whether all the homework has been done, but then you have to decouple them and I think that a lot of countries will stick to the link. So then it'll both be no, because it has to be unanimous. That seems to me, if I have to judge it now, how it's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u226	So the countries at the European Council are indeed being asked to give up on Albania and northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u227	Yeah, sure. That's what I just said. It's on the agenda, isn't it? It is from the meeting of the club that Stef Blok is in, whether it is the RAZ or the RBZ, I do not know how to pass on to the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u228	Mrs. Van der Graaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u229	Last week we also discussed with the Foreign Minister that it seems to be a couple. Then the Foreign Minister said: the countries are assessed separately. Does the Prime Minister see any possibility that this European Council will also make a separate assessment of North Macedonia and Albania?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u230	We would be in favour of that, but I think there will be a lot of countries politically holding on to it. I must also try to tell you in all fairness how I estimate how things are going to turn out, because they are all unanimous decisions. I expect a lot of countries will want to stick to it. Then they can't get to either one of them as far as we're concerned right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u231	Mr Asscher, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u232	Does the Prime Minister rule out joining the German approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u233	Yeah, I'm ruling that out. Nor is it the mandate I have of this House of Representatives. There is a large majority against the German approach, which says in both countries that it is up to the Commission to determine whether the homework has been done. I could therefore support the German approach on North Macedonia, but not on Albania.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u234	In my view, the German approach is that there should remain a European perspective, but that more progress should first be made on the homework that the Prime Minister mentions here and that the Commission might decide to open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u235	The Commission, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u236	That's the German approach. Then why does the Prime Minister rule out his joining?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u237	Because then it is the Commission. Now, when we look at the Commission's assessment of progress, we, as a cabinet, share, to a large extent, in North Macedonia, that there is real progress. We also have real confidence that progress can be made. If that progress is made, we also believe that the Commission can decide to proceed. That is also the German position. In Albania, we do not agree with the Commission's views. We think she is too positive about Albania, if you compare it with the underlying fact complex. That is why we really want to be able to decide this as a European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u238	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u239	You just said, guys, we've got to keep a little watchful and not be naive. I couldn't agree more. I do not hear a lot of naive arguments like 'let them become members of the European Commission'. In fact, you are saying that Germany, following the Commission's example, is in a position which is naive, otherwise you would be able to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u240	No, I'm not saying that. No, I'm certainly not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u241	Then Mr Omtzigt. Oh...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u242	No, I'm not. I have every respect for the German position and 50% share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u243	Okay. Mr. Omtzigt hasn't interrupted so far, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u244	If that is a new criterion, I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u245	No, it was before. Isn't that Mr. Omtzigt? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister guarantee that negotiations with Albania will not be opened at this European summit, even under conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u247	The Netherlands will not do that. I don't have room for that from this room, and I don't want it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u248	Okay. In North Macedonia, it is indeed complicated to decouple, there are possibilities..... but in Albania the Netherlands will ensure that negotiations are not opened, even under conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u249	I have always heard the view of the Chamber loud and clear and I agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u250	Then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It all sounds so absolute. As if it is mathematics in a manner of speaking and you can say exactly: this country is just right and this country isn't yet. It is, in the end, a political balance and there are a lot of countries - I would estimate 24 - or perhaps 25 - and a European Commission that makes a different assessment of whether the countries are ready than the Netherlands at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u253	Shouldn't you be trying to build a bridge between that "no, unless" and "yes, if"? You shouldn't try that, given the division in the coalition, I'm just saying. In this way we could prevent the Netherlands from wallowing in its own right by saying: Albania is not. That way we could try to compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u254	So that's kind of tricky in those two flavors. As a Council, you can say that you want to be able to decide this by unanimity, and as a Council you can say that you give the Commission the opportunity to determine whether there has been sufficient progress. That makes quite a difference. As far as we are concerned, the latter could be done in northern Macedonia, but not in Albania. We have explained in detail in the letter what the reasons are for this. That is why I have not explained it now. In Albania there is a great deal of progress in many areas; I simply cannot deny that. We see real constitutional changes and judicial reforms there. At the same time, however, we are still seeing enormous problems, especially in dealing with organised crime and its spillover to other EU Member States. That's why we say: boys, there really need to be made more meters first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u255	If you want that politically, you can, of course, take the same kind of approach for Albania as you are apparently prepared to take for North Macedonia. You can say: it is possible, provided you still meet these conditions. Of course, you could say the same for Albania. Of course, only the number of conditions that that country still has to meet is a little larger. But then, in fact, you choose the same approach for both countries. If you want that politically, it sends a very different political signal than when you say to one country that it is allowed under these conditions, when you say to the other country: you are not ready at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u256	But there is, of course, an argument behind that. With the Commission, we believe that North Macedonia is right to note that much progress has been made. But we do not agree with the Commission on the conclusions that the Commission draws on the basis of the underlying facts about Albania. So there is real light between our views and those of the Commission. I find it complicated to say to the Commission: it is now up to you to determine whether Albania has done the homework. So I would like to leave that possibility with the Council. And frankly, it's very simple: if Albania does that homework, we're going to start these negotiations. We cannot keep Albania out of it forever, but we really need to show that progress there. If the country shows that progress, I will be standing here saying that we must also start these talks with Albania. But right now, the hole is still too big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u257	The Prime Minister said that I had asked some good questions about "what else?" It has now been rejected and it will be rejected again at the European summit. That'll be the third time. Then you can wait for a new report from the Commission. We know that the Commission does describe the actual situation, but it always makes a political conclusion in which it says: open the accession negotiations. Are we going to say a fourth time that the countries are not ready? Can you keep doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u258	I made an attempt to respond to your comments in particular by saying that, in my view, this is in line with a thought in the cabinet, including in the discussions with European partners, to see if we can reform the system. Now there is a lot of pressure at the start of these negotiations. After all, you know that when you start, the negotiations start in a few chapters, and then it's very difficult to stop that train. Could you not work much more relaxed by saying to a country that wants to join the Union: well, fine, but start with 23 and 24? You could say that so to speak without anyone looking at it. You could say, start with chapters 23 and 24, show me what your progress is. When that's done, you could say, "Now let's see what you've done and if you've done all your homework." Well, then you've been objectifying it. The tricky thing in the current situation is that it is now every time the question is whether the country has made sufficient progress on these constitutional issues. Then it has to go back to the Commission and it has to assess it. If you look very sec at those chapters 23 and 24, it is important to respect those issues. I think it is much more sensible to use the Council's veto and unanimity after the completion of Chapters 23 and 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u259	This is not an answer to my question, apart from the fact that, in the procedure outlined by the Prime Minister, I see all kinds of difficulties. 'Cause I think we'll always get into that swamp. Then you can always say: they have done so much, so now we have to do the accession negotiations on those other chapters. But what happens to the perspective for Macedonia and Albania when it is said next Thursday and Friday: sorry, there is no unanimity, so we cannot open these negotiations? Are these countries going to go back into the waiting room and then have this discussion again in June, and possibly in June next year? Is that the perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u260	I expect that the conclusions will be exactly what we see as homework. That's a variant. In Macedonia, this is a somewhat shorter list than in Albania. In the end, of course, countries have that in their own hands. If they've done that homework, I think you should start negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u261	I suggest you move on. I'm gonna be a little more vigilant about interrupting, because otherwise things are gonna get out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u262	Mr. Chairman. Questions about the MFF have, of course, been asked. We've talked a lot about that. As you know, we want a controlled expenditure development. That is why we belong to the group of countries which believe that the 1% limit should not be exceeded. We want to modernise it at the same time, and we also want to maintain a fair net position. Well, of course, we've had that discussion with each other many times. We cannot give the Finnish document just like that. I'm gonna take another look at Stibbe, but eye contact isn't gonna work today. Oh, yeah. We cannot simply provide the Finnish document because it is still at a stage where it is confidential. But we do expect that in the cabinet response for the November RAZ we can send an appreciation of the Negotiating Box. The Finnish proposal will, of course, be reflected in that. That's it. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the use of the agricultural budget for climate. We support the ambition to focus 40% of the CAP on climate-related expenditure. Then it is important to monitor whether these expenditures are being spent on them. Mr. Chairman. That was actually about the MFF. There's not that much news. We know the Dutch commitment. I've heard all the questions. They are in fact in line with the well-known discussions. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about the climate. It is true that three more countries do not want the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. There were four of them. Estonia was also there, but Estonia is now happy. The Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland are still at stake. We're in close contact with that. We'll see if we can make progress there. The Commission is also looking at possibilities. A question has also been asked in the context of the JTF, the Just Transition Fund. The Netherlands is not at all opposed to seeing whether this can help to achieve a fair transition, but it must be covered by the MFF ceiling. This must therefore be considered in the context of the entire MFF discussion. Then about the statements of Timmermans. I want to be careful to comment on everything Timmermans says here, even though he would love it. But I don't think I should, because of course he has his position and we have our position. He has every freedom as a commissioner to do things. We have our views on this in turn. Very often we agree, but not always. So I'm not gonna let Timmermans make every statement here. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u263	A brief question, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u264	Let's talk about the MFK. Should be possible, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u265	That can also be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u266	Yeah, sure. Does the Prime Minister also see that the Netherlands is so blind-tailed as to keep the budget below a certain limit that we are therefore falling into the trap that we cannot or very limited the reforms? I really think that's a serious risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u267	We're gonna have to stop that. Of course, we have two interests. We want to modernise, but at the same time the coalition agreement concluded by Mr Verhoeven's party is not an additional contribution to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u268	I know all that, but this is really a serious point. Then you can refer to the coalition agreement. I don't care if it gets higher. It's about modernising and reforming. I can hear Mr Mulder say that as I have just said, but also the Prime Minister and others, including the Foreign Minister, are constantly saying: no, it must not go up; it must not go up. I feel like that's the main bet now, while the main bet really is the combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u269	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u270	That combination is much more than just saying: there can be no money at all in the European Union, then there will be nothing for a long time, and then we will have to reform a little bit. That is how it is being put forward, and I do not think that is a strong story. I think it should be both brought in, because if we just pull in the one, we'll end up empty-handed, because we won't pull in anything in terms of all these important objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u271	I can't give you any guarantees that you're bringing in both of them. I therefore disagree with the last sentence, but I agree with Mr Verhoeven. He says it exactly the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u272	However, I would like to say a few words about what Mr Timmermans said. I find it a bit easy to say: we are not going to react to everything; he is allowed to say anything. The cabinet is betting on 1% GNI. These are difficult negotiations, which we hear little or nothing about. In his hearing with the European Parliament, the Commissioner-designate Timmermans, in fact, is arguing for more than 1% GNI. That just hurts the Dutch interest, doesn't it? This simply undermines our negotiating position in the negotiations on that budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u273	No, I'm not. Nah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u274	Yeah, there you are. I find this unimaginable. Isn't it just a paper reality to just say no to that? It simply damages the Dutch interest when someone who is put forward by the cabinet as the super-Commissioner in the field of climate, the first vice-president, makes a promise at a hearing or suggests that it could be more than 1% and says "my country, the Netherlands, could pay for it"? That just hurts it, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u275	I have no objection to that. I do not believe that this weakens our negotiating position. No, I'm not. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u276	Mrs Leijten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u277	I asked for that fair transition fund for climate. Is this a fund that we are going to compensate, for example, for the closure of Poland's coal-fired power stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u278	Well, I don't know. We still have a lot of questions about how that's going to work out. We are going to see if and, if so, how the Netherlands can benefit from it, because of course we also remain merchants. The most important thing is that we do not say no in advance, because I also see that there are transition issues in Europe between countries that have very different starting points. As far as we are concerned, this is below the MFF ceiling, i.e. the ceiling of the seven-year budget. So we have a lot of questions and we need to get it under that ceiling. I cannot answer that question now, because I do not know exactly what the Commission is thinking. All that needs to be worked out. If these Commission proposals are genuine, the cabinet will of course appreciate them and inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u279	Mrs. Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u280	Okay, so it's going to be a fund that can also be used to compensate for the closure of coal plants...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u281	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u282	...of which there are certainly many in Poland. Well, I'm curious. That climate plan, that green deal, should be there in 100 days. Does the Prime Minister think that the decision-making on the multiannual framework will then be completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u283	No, I don't think so. That means that all those things will eventually be under that seizure. Eventually the MFF ceiling is leading for us, but you can of course have substantive discussions about the green deal and about such a fund. Mrs Leijten says that Polish coal plants are covered, but I do not know. We really need to look at the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u284	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u285	Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few loose questions. With regard to the ECB, I can say that the cabinet considers a periodic review of the tasks of institutions to be important. I should not formally say that I am calling for this, because they are independent institutions. But if I put it so positively, I think the good hearer can hear what I really think of it. We think that's important. Then the question, also by Mr Omtzigt, has been asked about transparency. That's what Stef Blok is doing, also in consultation with the Chamber. On the basis of the Council's Rules of Procedure, the Council shall meet in public on legislative matters. That's the usual practice. If that is no longer understood on the broadcasts, then that is not good. So I'm gonna take a look at them, too. Anyway, it should be. We call, as you know, for a legislative database, a one-stop IT portal, so that everyone who is interested can know exactly what legislation is in the making and so that it is not the search picture that seems to be often now. We have drawn attention to this in the non-paper on transparency, which has now been signed by nine Member States. Today, the Foreign Minister in the RAZ once again called for transparency to be included in the Commission's work programme. That is one of our efforts in the work programme, so we are pulling on the same side of the rope here. I think there is also a further discussion with Blok and the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Asscher that if you come up with proposals to combat competition differences, it is also about employees. In this respect, this cabinet is continuing the line of the previous cabinet and in particular the then ruling Minister for Social Affairs. See also the letter Wouter Koolmees sent to the Chamber for the summer with the Dutch commitment to a social Europe. It is also really on the agenda of the new Commission. Koolmeis has sent a clear letter on the commitment to that social pillar and all the horizontal principles. That letter has been discussed or is being discussed; I can't see that exactly so soon. At least he was sent to the Chamber in May. The strategic agenda of the cabinet, at least the European agenda, is, of course, well known; I do not need to repeat it here. Basically, it is about migration, security, a strong, sustainable economy that protects, climate, defending our interests and values abroad, and as a sixth horizontal priority improving the functioning of the European Union. This includes proportionality, but also, of course, transparency. Against this background, we will look at further proposals from the European Commission. I read the interview with the current President of the European Commission. What he says about me, don't take it too seriously. Then there are the Dutch-German government consultations. That was indeed a very successful meeting. We have now done so for the third time, but we have now actually done so with a very large team; we have had ten or eleven Dutch and ten or eleven German ministers and State Secretary. We have gone through the whole agenda: the Union's strategic agenda, the MFF, the climate and the rule of law. A letter will be sent to the Chamber shortly. A political statement has also been issued on these government consultations. It is on the website reichsoverheid.nl. It is not true that there is now one big, jumping point, the big initiative that the Netherlands and Germany are going to take up, but we are moving on a very broad front together. Germany has such joint Councils with a limited number of countries. I think it is nice that the Netherlands is now in a position to do so. So we have a very intensive cooperation with them. I always say immediately: we also have them with the French and with the smaller Member States. You are also aware of the importance that we have with the UK's departure to build other coalitions as well. But the connection with Germany is of course very close, and it is also reflected in these government consultations, I think. Once again, there will be another letter to the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u286	Thank you. Has there been a question left, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u287	Yeah, there's one more question left about the MH17. He has been made most clear by colleague Van der Graaf. At that point, there is a Van Dam/Sjoerdsma motion. It is not only asking for cooperation with the tribunal, as stated in the annotated agenda, which specifically calls for the exchanged suspect, Mr Tsemach, to be kept available for the criminal investigation into the MH17, and for all EU Member States to say so. I would like to urge the government to do so in the conclusions, because this person's testimony may be essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u288	Yes, but I can never give guarantees about what comes into the conclusions. I don't know if that's gonna work. Excuse me, by the way, it's a good thing you said it. Mrs Van der Graaf asked that question at the very end. That's what got him into my stuff for a while. But this is what I'm gonna bring in. Here's what I'm gonna do. I am going to use this whole motion, with all the elements in it, perhaps even with the names of the proposers; we should see how we do it. But how this is ultimately reflected in the conclusions of the European Council, I cannot give any guarantees about this. That is not possible, because there are, of course, all kinds of other issues surrounding it. But at least it's clear that this is what I'm going to say. I agree with that motion from A to Z. I'm very angry about what happened there at the time. This has already been discussed extensively, including with Stef Blok. So I will make that perfectly clear to my colleagues. I'll do that very motivatedly. But I cannot guarantee here that it will be in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u289	No, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u290	It is not just about the report; it is also about the statement. It calls for it to be specifically included in the statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u291	The statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u292	The final text, the text to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u293	The European Council conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u294	Yeah, the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u295	But I can't give you any guarantees about that. This requires unanimity from 28 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u296	No, I know no guarantees are given, but then we will also ask for feedback on which countries this is not important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u297	I can never say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u298	So that will be the very painful thing about the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u299	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u300	We are talking about transparency here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u301	But I can never...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u302	The Netherlands loses almost 300 citizens, together with a number of countries. The Netherlands is proposing that those who wish to testify about this should appear before a court which will finally be established after five years. And then we should not know who is blocking the saying that those people should be there? Will the Dutch Government make an exception?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u303	No, that's out of the question. I can't. The European Council shall meet unanimously. I can never tell who voted what. I can only tell you what I have done, unless other countries talk about it, such as Albania and Macedonia. That's where the force field is known, because it's been reported in the media. I do not have the impression at all that this is sensitive in the sense that the whole European Council will not feel that way. So far, I have always received support from my colleagues in relation to MH17, but I cannot give guarantees that the text will return to a European Council conclusion in a motion adopted by the House of Representatives. I can't. And if that is not exactly the case, then I cannot tell who voted what.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u304	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Prime Minister. I have two points. The first concerns the beginning of the Prime Minister's speech. He said something about Syria and Turkey. That was, of course, limited because of the debate we are still having. He has actually outlined the field of action in the European Union and he has said: do not expect much more from the European summit than from the Foreign Affairs Council. I would like to ask the Prime Minister another question. That may be the outcome, but there should be no misunderstanding about the Dutch commitment at that European summit. I honestly assume that the Prime Minister, also in line with a number of statements made by the Chamber, is going to try to achieve more and harder measures, such as economic sanctions, against Turkey at European level. I would like him to confirm that, taking into account what he said about the force field. Mr President, my second and final point. By asking a number of questions about the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework, I have tried to strengthen the discussion. The Prime Minister says: we have all discussed this very often and the principles of the Dutch cabinet are still the same. I asked him what the basis for these principles is. The cabinet says in the annotated agenda that 1% of gross national income is enough for all the priorities of the strategic agenda and that it is enough for agriculture and also for cohesion funds. I know that that is the position of the Dutch Government, but I have just tried to get some more support for that position. I have to say that I didn't succeed. That may not happen again in the second term either, but I am certainly going to ask that question again, because I think that will help the discussion on the MFF and on the Dutch position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u306	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u307	Mr. Chairman. What exactly are we talking about in relation to the new multiannual budget and where are we in the negotiations? Not only did the SP ask for the documents to be made public. Then the Prime Minister will say: it is not yet public, but we will give an assessment of it in the Council's press release in November. No, I want it sent to the room. I also want to know what the stakes are. In order to force the Prime Minister to do so, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the time has come to negotiate the future multiannual budget to discuss amounts for the different budget lines;]] [[calls on the Government to specify a maximum and minimum for each budget line with regard to the Dutch commitment to the negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1478]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u308	Mr. Chairman. In fact, the Prime Minister did not say anything about the strategic agenda and the evaluation of political decisions from the past. I think that is a pity, because in the past it was promised that everyone would improve the free movement of persons and, above all, internal labour migration. And now we see a lot of economic reports showing that Central and Eastern European countries are not reaping the benefits either. The economy is stagnating there. Here we know that our wages remain low. We know that there are social problems in departing countries, but also here. That is why I asked the Prime Minister: is it not a good idea to start the discussion on this too? Where exactly are we? We know that labour migration has also played a major role in the Brexit. We know that it plays a major role in the emergence of extreme right-wing groups. I'm sorry he didn't go into that. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the strategic agenda is being discussed at the European Summit;]] [[whereas political decisions taken with a major impact on Member States, such as internal labour migration, are not or are hardly evaluated;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake an assessment of the impact of labour migration on economic and social development in both countries of departure and host countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1479]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u309	Mr. Chairman. On the issue of the European Council and Syria, I hope that the Prime Minister will be prepared to have a discussion with his colleagues to see what can happen to promote security there and here. As far as I am concerned, that is completely separate from the Buitenhof problems of his coalition. It's about serious security concerns that are playing now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a real possibility that captured IS fighters and their families escape from the camps in Northeast Syria;]] [[Whereas victims of the horrific acts of IS may face the perpetrators in mass escapes;]] [[Whereas regrouping of fighters under IS flag poses a major risk to security in the region as well as to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the public authorities have a duty to protect children when parents are unable to do so, as set out in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with other EU Member States in order to identify all security risks and present a plan of action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1480]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u310	On the brexit point, I have a motion that I would love to withdraw if there were to be a commitment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that ordinary workers and SMEs deserve protection against the consequences of a possible no-dealbrexit;]] [[Considering that access to the European Globalisation Fund under the current proposal is mainly for the benefit of multinationals rather than SMEs;]] [[calls on the government to simplify SME access to the European Globalisation Fund in the case of a no-dealbrexit and to call for a reduction in the minimum threshold to 50 redundancies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1481]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been a major net contributor to the European Union for years and it is high time that that changed. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a recent Clingendael report states that the Prime Minister has a relatively high impact on European Union policies;]] [[whereas the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, states that his "friend" Rutte, in addition to becoming "European," would be "very influential" at EU summits;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to use his alleged above-average influence to significantly reduce the current Dutch contribution to the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1482]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u312	Mr. Chairman. Then my second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch candidate Commissioner for Commissioner Timmermans has been involved in the negotiations on the EU's multi-year budget by declaring that rich EU countries, including the Netherlands, should contribute more to finance his climate madness;]] [[whereas Timmermans shows that he has nothing to do with the Dutch interest but is primarily concerned with his own interests;]] [[Whereas such rulings undermine the negotiating position of the Netherlands with regard to the new European multiannual budget and seriously harm it;]] [[calls on the cabinet to withdraw Mr Timmermans' candidature immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's still foggy, I think. The Prime Minister cannot do much about this, but we should be able to get more light in this fog if we obtain more information. This applies both to the Brexit, although I understand that it is all fluid, and to the Multiannual Financial Framework. As far as the Brexit is concerned, I think we should be ready to consider the position of the Netherlands as a whole in the recess, but certainly after that, because it is not yet 31 October. Last week, in consultation with the Foreign Minister, I indicated that we are in a precarious position, because whatever we do with postponement, we always find ourselves in a political choice. Too little delay means that only elections are held and not a referendum. A longer delay means elections and the possibility of a referendum. But that's also up to the British. So that's our handicap. Our handicap with the Multiannual Financial Framework is that we know too little. We only have some general options as laid down in motions. I would nevertheless like to look for more opportunities for the future to deal with the content, without leading to problems in the mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u314	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Mr Verhoeven waived his second term. Then I will go to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u315	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the clear answers on Albania. No negotiations will be opened. Brexit stays exciting. I appreciate the Prime Minister's role in that process. As far as the MH17 is concerned, the Chamber is very clear. Those who know about this and who can provide clarity about the bottom stone......................................................................................................................................................................................... Their testimonies must end up in court so that the truth can be found there. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is about the European Central Bank. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ECB has designed and deployed far-reaching instruments to achieve the objectives;]] [[noting that the President of DNB is insisting on a review;]] [[noting that a similar review is currently being carried out by the FED and the Bank of Canada;]] [[noting that the low (and negative) interest rate is now seen by DNB as the biggest risk to the Dutch economy;]] [[Notes that it is highly desirable for the ECB to carry out a comprehensive and in-depth review of the strategy, instruments and the theoretical framework;]] [[calls on the Government to bring this motion to the attention of the intended President, Mrs Lagarde,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u316	Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns Syria, the conclusions on Turkey. We see Pompeo and the Vice President of America, Pence, traveling to Turkey and using all means. I think it is important that the European Union should do so as much as possible. That will not be blocked by the Dutch Government, but I will table this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey has moved into Syria together with a number of associated groups;]] [[calls on the government to make proposals at the EU summit for sanctions against Turkey and against the fighting groups fighting together with Turkey in Northern Syria;]] [[calls on the Government to provide support in Europe for an EU decision to take joint sanctions and to include them in the final declaration, such as:]] [[(parts of) suspend the customs union;]] [[no supply of arms or other goods for the combat groups fighting together with Turkey in Northern Syria;]] [[no Schengen visas for officers and soldiers and fighters who have invaded Northern Syria and for people fighting in groups known to have violated or violated the law of war,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u317	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers. There have been two questions that I have left aside, which I would like to clarify. My first question was about the force field within the European Union with regard to Turkey and support for the cessation of pre-accession aid. Has the force field changed after the Turkish invasion of Syria, I ask the Prime Minister. My second question was about the preparations of the healthcare institutions and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands for the forthcoming Brexit. Half of the entrepreneurs who were preparing for the Brexit aren't ready for that Brexit yet. I ask the Prime Minister whether the additional efforts that the government is making on this matter will lead to more companies and health care institutions being prepared. Mr. Chairman. I have heard the Prime Minister very well about the enlargement talks at the European summit this week, namely that no accession negotiations will be opened with Albania and that this is and remains the commitment of the Netherlands. The Christian Union wants to link that, before a new decision is taken, there must be a new report on the progress that is being made there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u318	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. This brings us to the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u319	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u320	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Graaf had two questions, first of all about the field of action around Turkey and pre-accession negotiations. That's only slightly improved. It is still not receiving the necessary support. There's a little shift, but not enough. Then there is the preparation of Dutch healthcare entrepreneurs. I just checked it out. VWS is coming up with an update very soon. It takes this question into account. I didn't prepare this properly, but it will be included in the update that VWS is sending very soon. Then there's the motions. The degree of detail in the motion in part No. 1478 undermines the negotiating position. So I really wouldn't suggest that. We will, of course, offer a technical briefing and ensure that everyone hears as much as possible. But if we put it on paper, you'll give away your entire bargaining bet. I don't think that's a good idea. I would therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1479. The tricky thing is that the Commission and the European Court of Auditors are constantly evaluating. In this sense, I do not see any added value in starting to evaluate the Commission's strategic agenda, which is now being discussed with Parliament, the Council and, to some extent, has already been laid down. Against that background, I would advise against this motion. On the subject of the motion in part No. I have just spoken to Mr Asscher in detail in the debate. This request really seems to be about a plan involving action in Syria. That's just not an option. The preparation for a possible uncontrolled return to Europe on its own initiative is, as I said, an ongoing dialogue between the people who guard our security. Then the motion to part No. 1481. That's what I've been digging into...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u321	What is the verdict on the motion in part No. 1480?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u322	Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 1481, on the European Globalisation Fund. As I understand it, the Commission has put forward a proposal for adjustments to the European Globalisation Fund to take account of a Brexit. It seems that this proposal can make it. This means that, under conditions, access is possible for companies affected by a Brexit. At the same time, the existing thresholds in the EGF are not being changed. The Netherlands has joined this effort, because we think it is important that it happens quickly. If we change those amounts now, we're afraid there's going to be a delay. As I said, SMEs can make applications by sector. Support is now also possible below the minimum threshold if it is well substantiated that there is a major impact on the local, regional or national economy. I realize this is not satisfactory, because I understand what Asscher wants; he wants to bring it back to 50 employees. But I am afraid that the matter will be delayed if we now argue for it and many countries oppose it. At the moment, we do have support for the current approach. It is very important that this fund gets there soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u323	So, the judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u324	I'd like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u325	Mr Asscher, a brief question on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u326	I'm not asking for a result commitment. If the Prime Minister finds that such a plea could lead to delays, I can imagine him saying, for heaven's sake, just as it is now. I'd like to ask him to give it a try. I think it is rather cumbersome for these companies to have a report to show that the local economy has been disrupted. The motion calls on the Prime Minister to make an attempt. That doesn't have to slow down. It might help Dutch SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u327	I'm gonna forget about the 50 employees for a second. Let's see if we can test in Brussels if there's room to bring down that threshold, without suddenly increasing the amount, because then you'll get that stuff back. Then the pot stays the same, but the smaller companies also have access to it. If we find that this leads to delays in the process, so that the whole pot does not get there in time, at least the expansion to companies hit by a Brexit, we will not go through, but we will try. I don't see the official support panicking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u328	The amount doesn't have to go up. So under-utilisation is purely Dutch smaller companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u329	So then the pot stays the same in size and then we're gonna try. And if we find that it leads to delay on the whole, then it stops. So we're gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u330	What about judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u331	With that explanation, frankly, with that interpretation, the judgment is Chamber. The motion in part No. 1482. The current Dutch contribution can no longer be reduced. So dissuade it. The motion in part No. 1483 is also discouraged. In the motion in part No. 1484 is pronounced something. That's a statement from the Chamber. So I don't have an opinion on that. I would like to read the request to the government in such a way that I am not going to do so formally. I cannot do that formally. I really need to be independent, and she needs to be independent. But nothing forbids me, of course, to put an envelope under the door when an opportunity arises. But I can't do it formally. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that I do not have to raise that point with a whole explanatory statement, if that interpretation is correct, then the judgment is Chamber. But otherwise, if I really have to formally say that I'm going to bring the motion to the attention, then I'm really in a conversation vis-à-vis. Yeah, I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u332	Okay, and then it's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u333	Then the question is whether Mr Omtzigt can live with my interpretation. Yeah, he can live with it. Then the motion to part No. 1485 on Turkey. What I already outlined: I now consider the force field to be such that after Monday there is no room to do more. But I also said if I see that space, I'll take it too. I then consider this motion to be input for the moment that space would occur. If I may interpret the motion in this way, the verdict is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u334	I see that Mr Omtzigt agrees with that. Okay, then the verdict is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u335	Then we're "in violent agreement," president.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u336	Yes, thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-17.u337	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I thank the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the stenography service, the officials, the staff and the people who have followed this debate.
