ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the facilitation of money laundering by Dutch banks. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Criminal money isn't worth anything if criminals can't spend it, and that's why they have to launder black money first. Combating money laundering therefore means combating crime. This means combating drug trafficking, corruption, trafficking in human beings, extortion and so on. That is why the subject is so important, and that is why this umpteenth scandal in banks causes so much fuss. In order to combat money laundering effectively, authorities need banks. They must know their customers and report suspicious transactions to the authorities. That's a legal task. If banks fail to do so in a structural way, they are therefore involved in maintaining the lucrative and thus maintaining crime. The fact that this is done regularly by almost all major Dutch banks is therefore extremely serious. This shows that the system is dead and dead sick. How many criminal activities would Dutch banks, with ING at the forefront, have already made possible? How many kilos of cocaine? How much bribe? We will never know exactly, but it is certain that ING has been abused by criminals for years and that hundreds of millions of euros of criminal money have been laundered, even when the bank was held up with taxpayers' money. Only twelve employees have been punished, for example a retained bonus. No one was fired and no banker came to court. And although ING's structure was clearly not designed in such a way that the bank could fulfil its legal obligation, it proved impossible to prosecute bankers. But if they are not responsible for the structure of their organization, I ask the cabinet. If ING's CEO had been at the helm of an organisation that has not fulfilled its legal duty for years, he should have just come to court to answer for it. That would have been justice. But no, the CEO was not dealt with, as Jan would be dealt with with with the slightest mistake. ING's CEO would have even received a raise of more than 1 million if society had not pulled the emergency brake. In the Netherlands today everyone is supposedly the same, but some are more equal than others. Why did the cabinet approve this settlement and thus make it impossible for ING to proceed? Would the cabinet once again approve a similar settlement with a bank in the future? Mr. Chairman. Let's go back to about a year ago, 21 February 2018. The ING summit is told by the District Attorney's office in Amsterdam that she has collected enough evidence to prosecute the bank. At the same time, the Minister of Finance spoke with then President Commissioner Jeroen van der Veer about the salary increase of the CEO, Ralph Hamers, according to reconstruction of the FD. Has the Minister of Finance been informed about the money laundering case at the time? And how did he react? And if he wasn't informed about it then, when was he first informed? Because at the beginning of September, the news about the settlement will finally come out. The Minister of Finance reacts shockedly in the media. Was he not at all informed about this until then? Was he that surprised? Not even by De Nederlandsche Bank or by his colleagues who are also in the Chamber today? A week later, the settlement amount is already in the Millions Note. Has it been introduced into the Millions' Note in the last week, when such an official process precedes it? Or was the settlement taken into account long ago behind the scenes? The President of De Nederlandsche Bank recently said in the NRC about this whole issue: commerce has favored ING over compliance and risk management. Risk and return are two sides of the same coin. As a company, if we want a lower risk banking system, the downside is lower returns for shareholders. Does the Cabinet endorse this statement? Does the cabinet agree with me that greed from shareholders should never hinder the legal duty of banks, as has happened to ING? Because while ING's audit departments were under-staffed and the computer systems that have to detect suspicious transactions were able to send a signal three times a day, ING offered its shareholders a dividend return of 10%. 10%, which is 300 times higher than the savings rate it promises to the average saver. 300 times as high. What does the cabinet think of this gap in profits? According to the Cabinet, is this fair? Does the government agree with me that the distribution of profits to shareholders of banks should be reduced, in line with what De Nederlandsche Bank said? Mr. Chairman. A banking system in which profits go beyond solidity and in which shareholders lead their customers is deadly and deadly sick. It will not change with other dolls or other symbolic measures. Fundamental change in the banking system is urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about one of the largest business-economic criminal cases in Dutch history. This is very serious, which the cabinet will recognize. The response of the summit, the supervisory board and ING's board of directors was completely inadequate. They came up with a brief press release on regulatory issues that had to be resolved. It was also evident from the administrative action. It was only after pressure from the Minister, supported by the Chamber but exercised by the Minister himself, that personal consequences for the summit followed. This alone shows that the seriousness of the offences, the laundering of debts, the highest fine in Dutch history and the actions of ING................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's very serious. In fact, there was even an increase in salaries, while these cases were running. What are you thinking: from 2 million to 3 million, or 50% increase in salary for the chairman of the supervisory board, which the chairman of the board of directors accepted. Then how far do you get from the real problems? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA has wide concerns that this has not been resolved now, which only leaves a member of the Board of Directors in time after pressure. I think he's still in there now, and he's gonna be leaving soon. But also with other banks play these problems, something that De Nederlandsche Bank also indicated. The ING case has taught us that even if De Nederlandsche Bank already indicates and even enforces it, the situation does not improve quickly enough. What is the broader picture of the sector now? This is really crucial; it is not for nothing that the two rulers of security and justice are sitting here. I mean Justice and Security, but I hope they are also there for security and justice. Why? Because money laundering is so serious. The Netherlands is just a huge financial player in the world. There are huge financial amounts going through the Netherlands, also because of our fiscal environment, which we often talk about. We are immensely important there. If the control of wrong practices is not good, and it is not good at the moment, money laundering, terrorist financing and drug crime can also be made possible. How does the Cabinet guarantee that this will not happen again? How does the Cabinet take care of that? Don't we get any more of these cases? Mr. Chairman. It's wider than just banks. They're big institutions, and if you turn them upside down, after the Libor affair, Moerland was more despondent than Ralph Hammers this time, they're probably gonna do something about it. But the trust sector also plays a huge role in the so-called gatekeeper function in our financial system. The PvdA Group is deeply concerned about whether this important role can be invested in this sector. If banks can't do it already, how can they? We have had debates on this before, but as far as the PvdA is concerned, the trust sector really is a rotten choice in this system. Should this not be contained much more, I ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. A third point concerns the limit by which you can pay with cash and where the reporting obligation applies. I believe that that limit, depending on what you do, is between €10,000 and €15,000. Isn't it way too high? Who's gonna pay cash with $10,000? Shouldn't that limit go much further down? Isn't it way too easy for someone to pay off $9,500, do that in three parts, and get out of control? Mr. Chairman. I come to my third and final point: the settlement. The settlement, as it has been made, is permitted. That is certain; it is not legally contested by colleagues either. Parliament has made that possible. The Public Prosecutor's Office also argued in the Chamber why that settlement was made. Given the rules that exist today, they have taken a explanatory position: it is moving faster, improvement measures are being agreed which are not possible otherwise, there is a comprehensive factual account and the fine has not been negotiated. On the one hand, you can say: this is how it can be done. Nevertheless, the PvdA Group has the question of whether you should want to do so in such matters. The answer is actually no. Actually, this has to be brought to justice. Then everything becomes clear. Of course, it's more work for the D.A.'s office, but then all the facts come out. There are other aspects to this. People must defend themselves; the argument must be heard. For example, ING is also the home banker of the State. That contract should not be dissolved, so we derive from answers to our parliamentary questions, because no criminal judgment has been made. But what is the difference between a criminal judgment and this criminal decision? And if the judge had ruled, would there have been grounds for dissolution? There are more aspects to that effect than just a settlement or a judge's ruling. Mr. Chairman. I see my time is up, so I'll stick to that, but I think that's a fundamental question. And I think that this argument, even in the letters of the cabinet, is still lacking. There are also disadvantages in not prosecuting, and as far as the PvdA is concerned, we should do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Five minutes is very short for this important debate. But I'll start soon. We're talking about money laundering today, a persistent problem. Let's get some numbers first. In the Netherlands, 16 billion were laundered in 2014. In the Netherlands, criminals make 13 billion dollars in black money. 7 billion is also laundered in the Netherlands; the rest flows abroad. 9 billion flowed from abroad to the Netherlands to be laundered. Half of them came from the United Kingdom, Germany and the United States. In 2017, 362.000 unusual transactions were reported by financial institutions, of which 23,000 were reported by banks. This led to as many as 29 search requests. Mr. Chairman. 362.000 reports of unusual transactions lead to 29 enquiries in the Netherlands. How is this to be explained, I ask the rulers. And what happened to those other 333,000 MOT notifications? To prevent money laundering, we have a law, the Wwft. The banks have to stick to that. DNB notes that banks have not taken their gatekeeper function too closely and clearly failed. That's very bad, and that's what we're talking about today. A good example of this is, of course, ING, which we are discussing today. Through ING, criminals and terrorists have been able to launder money through ING accounts for hundreds of millions for years, from 2010 to 2016. ING had set up a computer system in such a way that it could give up to three signals per day. Only the tip of the iceberg was monitored, and then everything went on. ING clearly put profits above integrity. That's just to save a few pennies of personnel costs. Mr. Chairman. The worst part is there won't be any prosecution right now. The case was suitable for a small amount, and the ING summit and the responsible persons are not prosecuted. They went free. If a citizen commits a minor criminal offence, it must appear before the courts, but large companies such as ING can buy off their debt with a ransom. That's so unfair about this case. Because what is a 775 million settlement for a bank like ING? A bank that makes five billion dollars a year and has a turnover of 17 billion? It's peanuts. 775 million is a quarterly profit from ING. We therefore saw that ING's share was hardly affected by this news. How can ING just get away with a settlement? Has this Minister of Security and Justice approved this settlement? And why? Can't cheating bankers always be brought to justice instead of getting a settlement? Why didn't Ralph Hamers, the CEO, quit? Apparently, according to the D.A., there were no responsible persons. But then there is still the final manager, the CEO, like Piet Moerland of the Rabobank, who quit in 2013. And what about the other parties involved in the four cases under investigation? I don't hear about that anymore. The owner of the construction market in Suriname, who laundered 9 billion? The owner of the lingerie store on Curaçao, who laundered 150 million? The 55 million in bribes from Vimpelcom? What about the fruit and vegetable importer? How'd it go with those people? Were they prosecuted? Did they get caught? Is that money that was laundered confiscated? We don't know and we'd like clarity. Then I come to De Nederlandsche Bank. DNB's obviously been sleeping. How can De Nederlandsche Bank allow all these abuses at ING to continue for so long? Why didn't they intervene? DNB issued a designation in 2008 and imposed a penalty charge in 2015. The shortcomings and failure to comply with the law were thus known to DNB since 2008. But DNB didn't go through with this and didn't go through enough. Where did this come from, I ask the Minister. And why has DNB decided not to re-check the ING top? For the PVV, that is incomprehensible. This was due to the scale of the money laundering affair and the way in which the board has acted since 2008. It's like DNB's afraid of ING. Can the Minister still ask the ECB and DNB to enforce a thorough preliminary examination and a re-examination at both the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question for the Minister. What does he think of the three major banks' initiative to exchange customer data in the future? The NVB proposes to jointly implement the Know Your Customer process and the monitoring of transactions in the future. She's also set up a pilot for this. What does the Minister think of this initiative? And what does the Minister think of the NVB's desire to have access to the Basic Registration Persons and the UBO register, in order to better implement money laundering? Because I feel like the banks are doing their best right now, but they're also working a lot along each other and don't know each other's evildoers and who the good customers are. Can banks better fill in their gatekeeper function if they can use information such as the Basic Registration Persons or the UBO registry, in combination with the BSN number? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Then I give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm gonna do my best in five minutes, Mr. Chairman. We went into the summer recess after a wage riot at ING, and we came out of the summer recess with the money laundering fraud at the same bank, with the highest settlement ever: 775 million. Don't these banks ever learn? All those fine words about restoring trust after the financial crisis, what are those fine words worth? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime we have had two hearings with directors of ING, letters from De Nederlandsche Bank, letters from the cabinet, answers to questions, a retired director after the chairman of the supervisory board was called to the Minister of Finance and now finally the debate on ING's behalf. Despite all the letters, hearings and answers, there are still a lot of questions to ask. Actually, that alone is worrying. I am going to ask questions in three blocks: in concrete terms, in relation to ING, in relation to money laundering and in relation to the European perspective. I'll start with ING. The D.A.'s record is crystal clear. The customer investigation, the termination of business relationships, the monitoring system of transactions... it was all out of order. This is about a culture that was wrong: business over compliance. I know that De Nederlandsche Bank cannot share confidential information and I know that the D.A. has more investigative powers than De Nederlandsche Bank, but I still have to ask how ING could have done this. Does the Minister of Finance have an answer to that? A number of concrete cases led the public prosecutor to investigate ING himself. But what if those coincidental cases hadn't been there or hadn't been connected to ING? What could De Nederlandsche Bank have done or done as a supervisor to intervene with ING? Then about the settlement. I understand the state's attorney's argument. Sometimes the redirection to individual responsibility is difficult. A 775 million-dollar settlement isn't a bad deal. But does the Minister understand that many people think: why are those responsible not in court? Does the cabinet share the view that this should be the preferred option? The Klever/Dijkhoff motion was adopted at the General Reviews. The cabinet is going to evaluate transactions and see if it can be done better or differently. Can the Minister or can the Cabinet say how this motion is being implemented? Is a judge's test for large settlements one of the options under investigation? About the reviews of drivers. We saw a very bright Frank Elderson at the hearing. The Dutch Bank, under the responsibility of the ECB, is strict, but cannot say much because of secrecy. That's still frustrating. Is it conceivable that, in the case of major issues, drivers should be automatically and strictly re-examined, taking into account the confidentiality dilemmas? Finally, on ING. The Dutch Bank has agreed an improvement plan with ING. Do we get any information about that as a room? Can we learn lessons from that, including for other large banks? Or does this remain in the confidentiality between De Nederlandsche Bank and ING? Then there's policy. Banks have a legal role to play as gatekeepers. Profit can't go above keeping you to the law. However, the question must be asked as to whether the policy itself can be more effective. Is it true that out of the 22,000 reports of unusual transactions that banks made in the Netherlands in 2017, only 29 led to a search request? What does it say about effectiveness? What about the MOT obligation of other and new institutions that make many more notifications? Does the FIU, the Financial Intelligence Unit, have enough capacity to handle all these notifications and also handle and review them effectively? Then the practice at banks. What happens if banks don't want a customer after a customer survey? Is it true that this doesn't need to be reported and that such a customer can go to the next bank and try until there's a bank that's not so difficult? What happens if a bank wants to get rid of a customer later, for example after a review because unusual transactions have been reported? Is it true that such an exit does not need to be reported to the FIU? Why not? Then I come to an idea: shouldn't we also introduce a report of unusual customers? Because then the FIU, and later the D.A., can do targeted research. The missing link between customer investigation and reporting unusual transactions. I think there's a gap in our regulations. Couldn't that be an effective tool to pick out the real criminals? Finally, Europe. The Minister himself and also De Nederlandsche Bank think that we need to work together much more Europeanly. You're right. Criminals don't care about borders. But what exactly is this cooperation supposed to involve? More uniform application of directives and policies by countries? More European and organised supervision by EBA, with powers for EBA? Or even further: share more detection possibilities through the FIU authorities or even the Public Prosecutor's Office? How far should this cooperation and integration go in the cabinet's view? How is the cabinet going to ensure that we move forward in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	To the second!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yeah, I saw it. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The biggest fine in Dutch history. This makes ING's money laundering scandal the biggest commercial abuse ever. How is it possible that ING's work as a gatekeeper of the financial system has been neglected for many years and has not been properly carried out? The indignation of the citizen is justified; one does not understand it. The public must be able to rely on our banks. In doing so, citizens feel that, for example, as a member of the board of a football club, they have to bear responsibility for abuses, but that this does not seem to apply to the board of directors such as ING. That gives the right feeling of indignation, anger and disappointment. The mega fine of 775 million consists of a settlement amount of 675 million and 100 million for the costs that ING has saved by simply paying less attention to the possibility of money laundering. Apparently the quarterly figures were more important than the social role. We know that from the crisis, but we have been hearing for years that this is about to change. It is embarrassing that this has happened, but it is also disappointing for the banks that are doing well and that have fulfilled the gatekeeper function well. By the way, the question is whether we have a strong relationship when a bank performs this gatekeeper function properly. It's a complex matter. What, according to the Minister of Finance, is the correct measure here? Isn't it worth researching to make a good definition for this? When are we gonna get along, especially the banks? ING was actually about the possibility of doing criminal activities. That happened at a time when they knew that banks are under a magnifying glass when it comes to integrity. In a period of six years, there were abuses. It is not that there were no signs that there had to be some improvement. Why haven't DNB's signals been picked up enough? But also the question is why DNB has not intervened before. Can the Minister explain why the abuses could continue for so long? For the CDA, it is very intricate that no one could be prosecuted, because the scandal is huge. Can the Minister for Legal Protection state whether the law currently provides sufficient tools to prosecute natural persons? We know in bankruptcy law, among other things, that on application by the curator or at the request of the Public Prosecutor, the court imposes a prohibition on the administration. Is such a thing conceivable for bank managers in a case such as ING has now revealed the money-laundering business?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	The CDA says here: the quarterly figures at ING were ahead of the social role. That is in line with what the President of De Nederlandsche Bank said. But Mr Knot has said more. He also said: if we want the banks to perform their social role properly and their legal duty, the returns for shareholders should simply be reduced. He also said that shareholders must accept that they will no longer get a return of between 5% and 10% while savers get so little; the returns must be reduced. Do you share that part of De Nederlandsche Bank's argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	Yeah, I share that, but I don't think it's our responsibility. I think it is a responsibility of the shareholders to make that choice. We can only appeal to the banking sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	That's good to hear. So when we ask the Cabinet, together with the CDA, to call on the banks to reduce these returns for shareholders, I also count on the support of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I shall continue my speech, Mr President. According to the D.A., no one can be prosecuted personally is his verdict. We have to stay away from that as politics. But in the eyes of the CDA, after the extent of ING's mistakes became clear, the Board of Commissioners should have allowed someone to bear the responsibility of their own accord. People are being sent away for less. Eventually, this was done under public and political pressure, but apparently the supervisory board did not come to that conclusion independently, as it did not in the case of Hammers' wage increase. The role of DNB. During the hearing, it was made clear that there is nothing to be said about the investigations it is conducting in the financial institutions. There was no opposition to the CDA's suggestion to set a policy line that the company's summit should always be re-examined when a settlement is reached. In fact, we were prepared to weigh that option, knowing that DNB advises the ECB on banks subject to ECB supervision and the ECB then has the power to review it. That's actually quite unsatisfactory. However, DNB says that it can do more through the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive in the area of enforcement and publication of the measures taken. Does the Minister for Finance consider that the powers of DNB are now sufficient in that context? We focus mainly on ING now, but is the ING case on its own? Figures show that ING failed to complete the gatekeeper function from 2010 to 2016. If we look at the current reports, we see that ING is one of the absolute top. Do we not look too much at ING's case only because of our anger at ING? Shouldn't we look wider as politics? First of all, we could argue for a public dashboard where banks, FIU and OM also report numbers and progress. There is also the possibility to see who is doing well for each other and who is really far behind. What do the ministers think about such a report? Are they prepared to discuss, among other things, with the banks, the FIU and the Public Prosecutor on how to improve transparency about the results? This applies not only to the transplantation of the results, but also to the need for cooperation between these bodies. Isn't that better? We heard yesterday that there is about a budget of 6 million to keep the FIU running. If you compare this with the investments made in the banking sector to combat and detect money laundering problems, the ratio is very uneven. Is the FIU powerful enough to handle all those reports? The CDA would like to be proud of our banks. They should and could be the forerunners in terms of solidity, sustainability and corporate social responsibility. Other banks should take an example from our banks. Unfortunately, however, we are still a long way from this situation, with the latest low point being the money laundering scandal. We call on the ministers to go that way with the government's agenda for the financial sector. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say: who would have thought we would have this debate with such an empty public gallery? Mr. Chairman. For many years, criminals have used ING to unlock many euros from sight. Internal alarm bells were silent when they should have blèren and partly that was just conscious policy. How did this happen, especially at the largest bank in the Netherlands and certainly after several warnings from De Nederlandsche Bank? We are still in the dark about the functioning of the key players held responsible for preventing or at least signaling such behaviour. However, we must also look forward today to ensuring that this cannot happen again. Mr. Chairman. ING received the highest settlement ever in the Netherlands; a record that illustrates the seriousness of the situation. The Note states that a transaction as a meaningful settlement will not be easily understood. What a sense of understatement, I'd like to say. The settlement between the Public Prosecutor's Office and ING was never reviewed by the judge. Nothing to the detriment of the Minister for Legal Protection, but the absence of that judicial test does not promote trust in the rule of law, just to stay with that kind of understatement. I am glad that the motion of SP and D66 will give the judge a role in really high transactions, but is a closed council procedure really the best choice for that, so I ask the Minister of Justice and Security, especially in the light of Article 6 of the ECHR, where a criminal charge, as it is, would initially ask for disclosure? According to the Minister for Legal Protection, the settlement, in this case with ING, made it possible to agree on compliance. However, it seemed to me that the proper performance of the gatekeeper function was the least that ING had to do and should do from now on. You don't need a settlement for that, you'd say. So I'd like to hear a little more explanation about that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Public Prosecutor on his commitment to transparency. In the media, too, the D.A. tried to give maximum insight into his efforts, considerations and limitations. I have missed that public openness with others over the past few months. ING was very brief at first and second instance, but I am still waiting for the results of the self-examination of auditor EY, to which EY referred during the hearing in the Chamber. Not good for trust and not good for learning ability. During the same hearing, DNB was very satisfied with his own actions concerning ING. Compared to previous periods, it is progress that sanctions have been applied at all, but how am I supposed to reconcile this satisfaction with the extent and the years of the shortcomings we have been talking about for months? That keeps guessing for me. I'd be happy to put that question to the Minister. Guess it remains to other choices of DNB. Apparently, that review wasn't necessary, but we're not getting an explanation. The recovery plan: it seems to be satisfactory, but we are not getting any insight. A little frustration about lack of information is part of our democratic rule of law, in which everyone plays their part, but this is starting to wring. As the Remkes State Commission also says about this regulatory state, there is a democratic gap here that people say "it will be for us, but it will also be without us." How can we close that hole with more transparency? That's how I ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. DNB said, "The problem is bigger than one bank." The AFM said, "The problem is bigger than banks alone." I would add that the problem is greater than just one country. In Latvia, the problem is so great that there is now an occasional anti-WWWW coalition. In Denmark, the problem is so great that the central bank warns that it threatens the financial stability of the whole country. Mr. Chairman. One of the underlying problems is that criminals can move money too easily and store money too easily. Firstly, within the Netherlands itself. It has already been referred to by Mr Snels. I ask the Minister whether he sees part of the solution as I do in improving the exchange of information between banks, but via the FIU. Secondly, international. Criminals know no borders and so governments must also break the barriers that block effective detection. This can only be achieved through better and more European cooperation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have no objection in principle to international cooperation, especially in the case of cross-border problems, but if we look at what has gone wrong, we can see that a lingerie company in banks has been able to launder 150 million. Then you see that musical bands are paid for building materials and that the supervision that banks themselves hold is not adequate to raise this kind of suspicious transactions in the organization itself. How would a European regulator change this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	In my opinion, the situations you describe are simply something in which the Netherlands has failed. I've said what I need to say. That's gotta be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	In particular, it went wrong in those banks because they were far too busy with shareholders' return requirements and not so much with social duty. Mr Sneller's analysis that cooperation between banks is possible and also within countries could help, I do share, but I wonder which problem would then solve European cooperation. How could we have avoided the problems we have seen at the banks recently through more European cooperation? I don't think that would have worked at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	That's not my point either. My point is that if we want to adequately solve the whole problem of money laundering and do not want to be here again in two years' time as a result of another scandal, it is also important to better reflect cross-border transactions and the easy movement of money. And that is why European cooperation is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. Ordinary, hard-working people in this country fought for ten years after the banking crisis to get the economy back on its feet. That wasn't easy. We are proud in the Netherlands that all of us who have solved problems and allowed the economy to grow again. That's what I've worked hard for. This pride applies to everyone in the Netherlands. Especially at that time, the largest bank in the Netherlands makes a series of major mistakes: large-scale failures in preventing money laundering, yet another million are arranged for the top man. And then when you're called upon to do that, you're going to complain in the media about that meddling politics. I know how much this has hurt all those people who make a fair living in ING's workplace. But the appeal to all those other doers in the Netherlands is disastrous. The picture is that those bankers, those gentlemen of ING, can go ahead undisturbed and get away with it. Mr. Chairman. That's exactly where the VVD, by the way, this whole Chamber, drew a line. The VVD sees as no other how much we need the banks in the Netherlands, for sustainability, for financing innovative entrepreneurs, for custom mortgages and as lubricating oil for the whole economy. For that, you need bankers who are proud of their profession, who have an understanding of their role in society and who do not give rise to fuss. That's what's missing. The VVD wants a banking sector that stands for the people who are there for you, who are serving and who show off criminals. So I would like to see ING back in the news in the years to come, that ING's boss will sit at Jinek or at Twan Huys to tell us about his work, as we have suggested before and, most importantly, that ING will put his own customers back on a pedestal, that everyone will just be served, including that 70-year-old man who needs a mortgage of €20,000, including that shopkeeper who asks for a little customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	The VVD expresses its dissatisfaction that bankers seem to get away with criminal behavior, or at least behavior that violates the law. I have, of course, stressed this in my first term. But isn't it true that the cabinet has approved the settlement and has thereby made a judicial process impossible? So shouldn't we, if we're dissatisfied with this, join the VVD in appealing to the cabinet to approve that settlement? Because it could also have chosen not to approve that settlement and then bring ING to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Alkaya is ahead of the rules that I wish to express next. Shall I just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'd be fine with that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	Let me say something about that transaction, that difficult word for a settlement or, for ordinary Dutch people, just a fine. Given the precarious situation, the VVD finds that settlement actually a justified decision, a justified fine for looking away from criminal behavior. But it's not enough. It is extremely unsatisfactory that no one in the workplace should now be dealt with in criminal law. Someone must have been to those companies. He must have seen that there was no brick at that construction store and that there was no bra at that lingerie store? Someone at the workplace must have decided to stop the number of notifications in the system? After the reconstruction in Het Financieele Dagblad we only had more questions. Fortunately, today we have the luxury of three ministers. That helps us answer all the outstanding questions. That's why I'm putting them on a point-by-point basis. You can see for yourself who she'll have to answer. How come a bank cannot identify which individuals are responsible for specific customers and specific decisions? Have we now ensured that individual bankers can still be prosecuted if incriminating facts are found? Can one of the ministers outline what the procedure would have looked like if there had been no settlement? How long would the case have lasted? What were the chances of a conviction? I always refer myself to the Slavenburg case about 30 years ago. Can the cabinet confirm or deny that the cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and De Nederlandsche Bank was as difficult as the FD suggested? Can the Minister of Finance indicate what he knows about the review of ING's directors? Is it true that DNB wanted to keep the relationship good, and that's why he didn't review it? If so, how does he feel about that? And, finally, what do we know about the situation in other Dutch banks? Can such a thing occur on this scale with other banks? Mr. Chairman. My group chairman, together with GroenLinks, asked what we can learn from this issue and whether we can really tighten up legislation on this issue. What about the implementation of this? And when can the Chamber see anything? I hope that we will be able to discuss in detail the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering policy later this year. Hundreds of people are now gathering the unusual transactions at the banks; that's 360,000 a year. In 2017, this led to only 29 search requests. There's still a lot to win. Nor does the thinking stand still in our minds: we are considering what can be done better. I intend to come up with a plan later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	We look forward to that. I have a question about this case. The VVD says: preferably there were individuals persecuted. Everyone thinks so, I think, including the cabinet, but the DA didn't. But the VVD does say: the settlement is actually a good thing. Do you think that, where appropriate, there should be a re-appointment and that they should not be brought to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	I see a few drawbacks. The advantage that we now have with that settlement is that it's very fast. You'll be clear soon. ING has acknowledged the facts and the Public Prosecutor has been able to impose additional conditions. That helps a lot, because that also gives everyone clarity. Transparency has also been applied to society as a whole. That's one. Secondly, and that is why I referred to the Slavenburg case: this was not possible in the past. And what do you see at Slavenburg? It's been 30 years, of course. But you can see that in the end everyone ran away smiling. We don't want to go through that either. So given the precarious situation and given the uncertainties, I'm just glad we hit this transaction. But the unease remains: the displeasure of people in the workplace who have made wrong decisions, knowingly and knowingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	I really think it would be good for society's sense of justice to bring such matters, which are so immensely large, to justice. There has been an extensive account of facts, but that is not proportionate to what would have become known in a court of law. And in the end, it's also about the consequences. Socially alone, we cannot dissolve the contract with the state's home banker, because there has been no judge's ruling. So there are many more effects. So all in all, I'd say, if it's that big, bring it to justice. But the VVD doesn't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	No, because you run the risk that you'll be years away and that it'll lead to nothing, even though we do have results now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	It's a bit of the VVD's return thinking, only in criminal law. That's really weird. So in order to avoid the risk of a long process of justice, the VVD thinks it is a good idea that a settlement has been reached, and at the same time the VVD is dissatisfied that no one has been brought to justice. That seems to be a bit contradictory. Look, I agree with the VVD that it would be desirable to settle and also prosecute individuals. In fact, our colleagues in the judiciary have had a joint vote on this. But the moment the cabinet approved the settlement, he knew that it was probably not possible to prosecute individuals within the bank. The cabinet also knew that if he agreed to the settlement, a legal process of the bank would be made impossible. And yet the cabinet has agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	And the question to the VVD is: how does one position of the VVD rhyme with another? Because by agreeing to the settlement, the cabinet has made it impossible for a court to proceed. So the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	So the VVD can't want both things at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	Then I've read the story of the facts differently. A settlement has been reached with the legal person ING. The amount paid for that, that 775 million, you probably wouldn't have made it in court. So that's profit. In addition, I do not think it is excluded that individual bankers can be prosecuted. So I still hope this is going to happen. Mr Alkaya and I have no misunderstandings about the criminality of these acts. The SP and the VVD together raised the penalty for money laundering last year. So our intentions are completely parallel here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	Please continue. And are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yeah, I've got a little bit left, so that just fits in those last nine seconds. In anticipation of our ideas which we hope to launch later this year, I do have one more question. More and more people are going to pay with Apple Pay, Google Pay or I know which new provider. And those providers are going to operate via a banking licence somewhere in one of the small Member States, perhaps one of the Baltic Member States where that supervision might not be as well regulated. How, as a country, are we going to ensure that these banks are going to apply the same high standards? Because we are now wallowing that whole task on the Dutch banks while the other banks in the European Union are raving at the gates. I hope the Ministers will have an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Finally, Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. ING did not prevent customers' bank accounts from being used in the laundering of hundreds of millions of euros between 2010 and 2016. ING was seriously failing. Moreover, the few cases investigated by the D.A. turned out to be exemplary for a practice within ING in which criminal money was laundered and the bank did not sufficiently shape its role as gatekeeper. Even after several warnings and formal measures by De Nederlandsche Bank, ING did not take sufficient action. Mr. Chairman. If the few cases investigated by the Public Prosecutor proved exemplary for the bank's working methods, to what extent is ING's working methods exemplary for the Dutch major banks in general, I ask the Minister of Finance. If the practice was so embedded in ING's working methods, is it reasonable to assume that this was not resolved overnight either? In short, the offences have been recorded, the fine has been paid, but has the problem been resolved? If it were an ordinary crook, I'd say keep an anklet on it and keep an eye on it. But what is the proverbial anklet that the minister uses? Are DNB and the D.A. gonna be close enough to intervene again as soon as it's necessary? By close on top, I mean to the workplace, really present. For example, horizontal supervision could also help to improve the situation, I ask the Minister for Finance. Mr. Chairman. According to the D.A., the offences are not individually attributable to persons. I have to trust the prosecution here in his judgment. But how does the Minister of Justice view this from the principles of good administration and personal liability? Can he reflect on that? Mr. Chairman. I have little faith in the professional ethics and self-cleaning assets of the banking world. I also see in the response of the ING directors that there is no idea of the urgency and signaling of what has happened. The fact that there was talk about salary increases and bonuses while they were already negotiating with the state's attorney on established criminal offences: then you were singing away from any normal human reality? It is therefore still very important that there is sufficient monitoring and that this monitoring is sufficiently intensive. According to the Minister of Finance, does DNB have sufficient and all the resources needed to carry out its task? As far as the prosecution is concerned, it would be useful and possible to agree that a second settlement would normally lead to legal proceedings or proceedings. an irrevocable conviction? Mr. Chairman. What bothers me most is that ING pays the fine and that that is the end of the matter. If a criminal, a natural person, has committed a proven crime, it's on his criminal record. Or in professional terms: it is registered in the Judicial Documentation System. What bothers the Christian Union is that the rules for natural and legal persons are different. So bad guys are treated differently than bad guys. The Christian Union proposes that legal persons, as well as natural persons, should be subject to convictions and settlements when information is requested from the Judicial Documentation System. Our plea today is that, when applying for a declaration of conduct, contracting parties should look not only at irrevocable convictions, but also at settlements. In this way, public authorities know better whether they are dealing with honest companies. Is the Minister of Justice prepared to take action on this in cooperation with his colleague in the Economic Affairs Committee? I have a motion in preparation on this point. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister of Finance if he is prepared to draw conclusions from the facts found at ING for the procurement of services in the coming years. I am thinking, for example, of the task of the government's home banker, which is to be re-contracted in 2021. I understand that the Minister cannot intervene in current contracts and probably does not want to anticipate matters, but I still have a question for him. In the next call for tenders, are there any banks that can handle a contract of this magnitude and where no crime has been detected in the last 12 years? Does the Minister of Finance still have the choice in 2021 to bank with an honest bank? This is a serious question. I am pessimistic about the answer, but I am genuinely looking forward to his assessment. Finally, Mr President, I would like to go back to the EUR 775 million fine. It has entered the Minister of Finance and thus entered the state treasury. The Minister checks the ING's annual accounts around March, please. Is it not true that the fine is not charged on profit, so that the taxpayer does not pay with it? Wouldn't it be nice to think that this money, which is earned by unethical action, would be spent on something ethical? Of course, reducing public debt is also very ethical, but it is not very visible. Leaving the budgetary rules aside, then I dream for a moment outside the budgetary rules, and I ask: what if we were to use money obtained by settling crimes in the banking sector or any other sector to combat crimes? I am thinking, for example, of extending the research team at the Tax Office to combat tax evasion or the dumping of drug waste. That's how the bad guys help make our country a little more beautiful. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	I have a supportive comment. If Mr Bruins comes up with the proposal to invest, for example, in the Tax Office..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So can we get that done today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	I told you, I have to dream outside the budget rules. Budgetary rules do not allow you to spend more, even if more revenue comes in. So it's a dream. I have to pass this on to the Minister for Finance, who also manages the budgetary rules, and we have to stick to them a little bit. We find each other in the fact that we know that more is needed there and that combating fraud and wrong constructions by the Tax Administration is very much the attention of the Secretary of State for Finance. That's where this cabinet period goes, too, more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	They're commendable words, but it's just a little dreamy when I hear it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	Let's see what the Minister says about this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	Well, I can guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	... when it comes to budgetary rules. Let us at least see if we can make better agreements on this for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension of about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr President. With all the instructions I get from the hall, I will try to sail between Scylla and Charybdis. May I begin by thanking Members for all the questions on this extremely important and serious subject? First of all, let me briefly state how we will respond. I will talk in two blocks myself, first about the role of ING and DNB and then about the sector as a whole and also about the future. Then Minister Dekker will talk about this transaction and everything that has to do with this particular case. After that, Mr Grapperhaus will talk about the transaction, if I may say so, in general. Mr. Chairman. I start with the role of ING and DNB. I have exchanged several times with the Chamber, also in writing, that facilitating money laundering by banks is extremely serious, that these are criminal offences and that it is a border that banks must of course never cross. Integrity must not only prevent the misuse of services for financial and economic crime, but is also a crucial condition for the proper functioning of an institution. Many Members have also referred to this. That is precisely why this issue also affects the confidence that citizens and all of us must be able to have in institutions and in the sector as a whole. It is all the more painful that Mr Nijboer and others referred to the fact that this is the largest transaction ever made at the largest bank in the country. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the questions. Mr Alkaya asked when I was aware of this matter. I think I have already said a few things about this in Parliamentary letters, but we simply have a strict separation between the portfolios. I am only here that Friday morning before this matter came out very briefly, because at that time there seemed to be the possibility that the matter would come out on that day. I didn't get the whole file out of my head until Tuesday or Wednesday morning when the case came out. That also makes sense, because I have nothing to do with this kind of thing, of course, on the basis of my responsibility in criminal matters. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde asked how the consultation between DNB and the Public Prosecutor was going. In its letter of 24 September, DNB explained the cooperation with the Public Prosecutor. This cooperation is always a tripartite consultation between DNB, the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD. In the opinion of De Nederlandsche Bank, this cooperation went well. In fact, all these documents also show that there has been a lot of consultation between these three institutions during that long period of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	I have a brief question about the way things are going. The minister's getting over it pretty quickly now. What strikes me is that a week later in the Millions Note, the amount of the settlement already stands. Has that been inserted in the last week, so when the Minister was informed? Or was a possible settlement already considered behind the scenes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	No, of course not. I believe that this money was literally transferred to the State of the Netherlands in the 24 or 48 hours after the transaction became known. The Millions note will then be adapted accordingly. Until the last day points and commas are changed and in this case substantial amounts are changed. But there was, unlike of course within the FIOD, in my ministry in no way knowledge of this matter. And that's the way it should be. Those are just strictly separate responsibilities. I have not at any time had any details on this matter until Friday morning, so I was very briefly informed by the FIOD that this might come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	I can't believe it. The minister now says he didn't know anything about this case until Friday before it came out. But he does talk to DNB on a regular basis. DNB has been on this case since 2008 and sees that ING is failing in terms of compliance and you name it. So I suppose the Minister knew that there was something going on at ING, that there was investigation going on, and that the Minister of JenV even gave permission for a settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	Again, these are strictly separate routes. What anyone could have known from press reports was that ING had something going on. But I'm not getting any information, and that's how it's supposed to be, whether or not the D.A. is investigating a bank. That seems perfectly logical to me. And even that weekend after that Friday morning, I didn't get the file. And that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	But didn't the minister know that there was a criminal investigation going on into the ING? The minister just said, "I didn't know, I had to get it out of the paper." While his colleague authorized that 775 million settlement. In other words, I assume there's a call "what do you think, shall we settle it or take it to court?" Isn't there a meeting between directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	No, the opposite is true and must also be true. Precisely that case that Mr Van Dijck describes would be intricate. That case, that one of the rulers would ask me what I actually think of the settlement. That's exactly what you shouldn't want. This is up to the D.A., within the specific arrangements that have been made about it. My colleagues will say something about that. But of course I'm not known at any time, let alone consulted on what I actually think. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	One more question. In my view, the Minister's answer is clear as to how this goes formally in the cabinet, and I think that is going well. But I did have a question, partly because of that reconstruction in the Financial Daily. This is just about the day after the settlements that the ING itself will contact the Minister via the chairman of the Supervisory Board and via text messages. Was that the first time ING contacted the Minister of Finance about this settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	Or did ING himself say "something is going on"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	No. So just a little more precise. That Friday morning I was informed in broad terms, for the simple reason that at that time the possibility seemed to exist in the eyes of the FIOD and, in particular, the responsible Director-General of the Tax Administration, that this would come out. Then, of course, it is logical that I at least have basic science of this case, because otherwise I cannot answer a single question about it either. Then, but colleagues can answer that better, the transaction was formally signed during the weekend and I then signed it, and I think it was correct in that reconstruction that ING's President-in-Office received a request for contact from ING. I then asked Minister Dekker myself: 'Can I, is that prudent, do I not go through a criminal trial, can I have contact?' The answer to that was yes. And then I let ING know, both by text message and in a short telephone conversation, that I found what I had understood about it in the meantime very serious, but that I could not reflect on the exact case as it was not yet known to me. Because on that morning I only received the entire criminal record and then I said to De Nederlandsche Bank as well as to everyone: 'I would like to talk to you about this in the short term'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	That is a clear answer, and I think it is an important one. Just for the sake of clarity and clarity, because just before the summer, the minister of course had a lot of contacts with ING because of that wage riot. At that time, too, did ING not give any signals that this issue was taking place? It really wasn't until later that ING contacted you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	None. By the way, Mr Snels says "before the summer." It was quite frankly, I believe in March of last year that this salary discussion took place. Understandably, the media and then Members of Parliament and myself are going to put these two things next to each other. But there was no information available to me, other than what I just said in the direction of Mr Van Dijck on the basis of what had already appeared in the media at the time, that the public prosecutor was dealing with this matter in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr President, I shall have to amend my promise to you immediately as regards speed, but I shall proceed quickly. I have answered Mr Van der Linde's question about DNB and the prosecution. Mr Van Dijck and Mr Ronnes asked about the human consequences. Mr Van Dijck asked in particular about the CEO. I have always said that it is up to the supervisory board. The responsibilities within the bank have been the subject of conversation. But once again, it is up to the supervisory board to draw conclusions. Mr. Chairman. Then a large group of members asked about the performance of DNB. Why hasn't there been any intervention before? The Dutch Bank has acted several times in the period 2010 to 2016 in order to enforce ING. It is precisely the exchange of information in the tripartite consultation I have just described that has led to the initiation of criminal investigations. So with all the invigorating things we can say about this case, the conclusion is also justified that the work of De Nederlandsche Bank has helped to bring this matter to light and ended as it ended. So it also shows how relevant this cooperation is. Then Mr Snels and Mr Sneler asked about the improvement plan and whether we could learn lessons from it. It is good to point out that DNB sees the recovery and improvement programme and that the assessment there asked Mr.Sneller, in particular, about its confidentiality, but that of course De Nederlandsche Bank uses that information again in the development of the supervision, wider than only in that particular case. If ING did not implement the plan and would impose sanctions on DNB, it would become publicly known. That is, by the way, a relatively new figure, because we did not have it a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	Let me look at the Minister to see if this point has been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	I haven't finished the whole block, because the next question is about ING again: what if they go wrong again? But I believe that I have at least partially answered the point about DNB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yes. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	My first question was: how should I rhyme that this behavior continued between 2010 and 2016, while DNB says he has intervened? The fact that there has been enforcement at all is a point of progress in relation to what has happened in the past. But, of course, it is not just about the process and the effort. It's about what's going to be done with it. How are we supposed to look back on that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm not saying we can look back on it satisfied. I note, however, that, partly because of the tripartite consultations that have taken place and also because of the history, the matter has taken its turn. I think you need to put one more thing next to it. You can also see here that people are learning by doing. By "ones," I mean all the actors involved on the public side. The number of rules and the intensity of the rules are completely different from four to five years ago. And four to five years ago we were further than for example in 2005. The Netherlands Bank has, of course, also started to use these instruments. You have to ask yourself whether, in the situation ten to fifteen years ago, this case had come to light at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	I get that. That is why I call it 'progress'. Only the question is whether we should be satisfied with that now. What struck me during the hearing was that it was clear that DNB was very satisfied with how it all went. I find it difficult to assess whether I should share that satisfaction, but I must now assume that the implementation of the fourth directive will improve everything. It is said that from now on, with the recovery plan, everything will be fine, but I cannot share it. That is why I want to understand why I should share this satisfaction about the past. Then I can have confidence in that for the future, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	This is what happened. It is good that it has come to light and that it has had consequences, but it is difficult to look back on this case satisfied. For that, what happened is far too shocking. It has played over a very long period of time and has a great social impact, apart from the fact that many criminals have been able to enrich themselves in this way. It's hard to be satisfied with that. A relevant fact is that the increase in regulation and the increase in the intensity of DNB's action over a somewhat longer period, combined with the action of the Public Prosecutor, have indeed led to sanctioning. But the truth is, we're not here yet. If we had already been there with the instruments of a year ago, we would not have needed the new European regulations and any additional thoughts that have emerged in this debate. So we're not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	Second interruption, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	In retrospect, therefore, we must also conclude that we cannot really check whether DNB has acted adequately, except on what we hear from DNB, and that the Minister was never informed by DNB in the process before 3 September of what DNB has done and what the results were.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	I believe that there are elements which can also be taken into account by the Court in its assessment of whether and to what extent adequate action has been taken. The fact that DNB has indeed called attention to these issues, that DNB has given instructions here and has also issued fines, are relevant signals to me that the bank was specifically working on them. I would also like to draw attention to the proactive attitude of DNB from the start of the tripartite dialogue. What matters is that much of this kind of information has not been made public in the past, including the fines. That has, of course, changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	I also believe that the transparency that has been achieved since last July, including the imposition and enforcement of fines of this kind, is progressing. However, one could also argue that there has been a failure, precisely because DNB knew something was wrong, precisely because sanctions have been imposed, precisely because a penalty charge has been imposed, while there has not been a check on what happened next, which has now been made public. You might as well say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	I really have another lecture. Of course, I and my predecessors have not been on top of it at all times, precisely because this is to De Nederlandsche Bank. But if you try to reconstruct what has happened at certain times in the past and what a responsible supervisor should have done, and you add that up, the regulations of that moment, the sanctions that have been imposed, the letters that have been exchanged, the indications that have been given, the conversations that have been made, that image seems to me to be adequate. But by doing so one learns. There is now an even more stringent toolbox. It is clear that the problem of money laundering has not been solved by the Dutch banks. We will therefore have to continue on that road, with increasing urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	The satisfaction of De Nederlandsche Bank and actually a bit of the Minister still surprises me. I still can't quite rhyme that in the light of the approach. We see that De Nederlandsche Bank has taken measures. The Minister praises the cooperation between DNB and OM, but it is true that, in my opinion, the prosecution said to De Nederlandsche Bank in 2015, on the basis of a number of concrete cases, that the criminal investigation would take place? From that moment on, we worked together. That's fine, but what if there hadn't been those concrete things? Then DNB had quietly continued to make conversations, perhaps a fine had been paid occasionally, but then nothing had changed in the culture at ING. That's what I'm worried about. If the D.A. hadn't started investigating, what would have happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	Just because it's so important, I'd like to pull two things apart. I would like to keep an eye on the image that I am satisfied with the way it has gone. I'm just saying that the image seems adequate to me. I say that with the information I have, which is limited about the combination of what the legislation was like, the instruments that were on the table and the analysis that I can now make of the conversations that have been made, the fines that have been distributed and the indications that have been given. That is completely different from looking back in satisfaction. Then we are not even talking about the outcome, because of course it is simply disastrous. I think I've been very clear about that. What if? The "if history" is always complicated. What I think has come together is that the Public Prosecutor's Office has come to conclusions on a criminal investigation. Then, at the time, DNB appealed to the pattern recognition they had there. Of course, DNB is not a kind of mini-OM and does not have the powers or the possibilities to anticipate it at an earlier stage. I understand Mr Snels' inconvenience, but that is an important distinction to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	That's exactly why I'm calling it. 'Cause I can tell that difference. How will it prove to another large bank that this culture of tackling money laundering, that gatekeeper function, is being properly fulfilled? How can we find out if there are no concrete cases the D.A. is investigating? Does DNB get that on the table, or does it have to go back to working with the D.A., because the D.A. has more powers? Well, that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	I would like to mention one more public body, and that is the FIOD. And, of course, the FIU, but they all have a role to play on their own responsibility. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the tightening of the rules and, of course, to the fact that this dossier has taken place at all. Everyone sees how big, urgent and important this problem is. Therefore, I really think that everyone will be even more aware than perhaps in the past of the importance of communicating with each other on this issue. The complete or further lifting of the divisions between these organisations is, of course, not desirable either. That is exactly what I think Mr Snels is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	The hearings and the file show that DNB has sent signals to ING at various times. The impact within ING has been followed up, but it has had the wrong effects or was not sufficient to solve the problem. We can say a lot about this, but my concern is still as follows: is this a case that is only at ING's disposal, or has DNB sent signals to other banks? I know it's not your responsibility, Minister, but is it something you can discuss with the banking sector and when you sit at the table with DNB? Is there another risk that this will also be dealt with by other banks and that signals will not be properly picked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	That is a good and very logical question. The first part of the answer is the one I have already given to Mr Van Dijck and Mr Alkaya. Suppose an exact case like this would occur at another Dutch bank, then I have no clue and I am not known in it, until just as soon in advance as in the ING case. So I don't know, and I shouldn't know. That's the first part of the answer. The second part of the answer is that I said of course to DNB, but also to those responsible at the other large Dutch banks after this case: be careful, as far as you think you are not in order on this point, this seems to me to be the time to start immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Bruins asked what would happen if ING went wrong again. DNB shall monitor the recovery and improvement plan. If it does, DNB will simply have to use the supervisory tools. DNB itself has indicated that the instruments currently on the table are sufficient and adequate. Mr Van der Linde asked about the review. Is it true that De Nederlandsche Bank decided not to test it? That question naturally implies that the competent supervisor, here the ECB, has decided not to review it. I don't know that, and I shouldn't know that either. I understand the inconvenience of that answer, but that is one of the inconveniences I carry with me in this whole case. It might be good to mention that since 2014 DNB has carried out 52 reviews, 24 of which have been negative. Mr. Chairman. I will continue, but I saw Mr Van Dijck chasing the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	I see him too, but I'll see if Mr Ronnes has a follow-up question first. No? Okay, Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	About the tests, because there has been a widespread reaction to the fact that there has not been a re-examination. And now I read that DNB could give an opinion to the ECB to do that review. My question is, did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	No, Mr. Chairman, I just said... Mr Van Dijck says: there has been no re-examination. I don't know if there's been a re-examination. I don't know, and I'm not told. That's the spirit. I had just arrived at Mr Van Dijck's question and Mr Ronnes'. We have an independent Dutch Bank in the system as we have organized, and once again, that is a great asset and an ECB where politics is not at its disposal either. The responsibility lies there. In my view, the use of the instrument of review is really careful, precisely because it concerns the assessment of persons by an administrative body. But it's not even a little bit of my responsibility and I'm, again, not known in it either. By the way, the law also prescribes secrecy. It might be good to mention that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr Van Dijck, you will have an opportunity in a moment, but perhaps it would be useful to answer Mr Van Dijck's question and Mr Ronnes' question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	That was the answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	Okay, I'll go see Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	Yes, because once again, it has been stated in all the newspapers that there is no review. So I don't know where those reporters got that. The whole room has responded. "It's a shame DNB doesn't retest!" You reply, the Minister replies that DNB is not about that; that is what the ECB is about. He is hiding behind that, but my question was: did DNB give any advice to the ECB to review? 'Cause this isn't just any case. Here the drivers just dropped big stings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	Again, I read that message in the paper, but I don't have that information. So I can't indicate whether there has been a retest and why, or if there hasn't been a retest and why not. I can't judge that, because I don't have that information, and again, it's also right that I don't have that information. I shouldn't want that information either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	I can see that the Minister is holding it off a little bit. "I don't know anything about that and I don't really want to take the step to find out whether there is a review in this kind of case." The AFM makes it clear on its website that the law expressly states that there must be a reasonable indication to proceed with a review. But the AFM also says that this is not defined by the legislator or otherwise filled in. As soon as we, the legislator, fill this out and say: a settlement or a conviction above a certain limit is always subject to a review, at least you solve the uncertainty and frustration that are now felt in society because it is not clear whether there has been a re-examination. Can we not see whether we can talk to DNB and the ECB about whether they can turn it into a policy line, or whether we can just incorporate it into the law in the most far-reaching case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	I fully understand the feeling that Mr Ronnes describes and the need he expresses. But the supervisor, and in this case really that is the ECB in the first place, is independent. The law prescribes secrecy to the supervisor, in this case the supervisors, you might say. This is supervisory confidential information and it cannot and should not be shared, not even with me. So very precisely: the supervisor would break the law at the moment that information would be shared with me. So whatever the outcome was, that can't be shared. I can't make it any easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	But then the Minister is with me that, at the time the DNB/ECB opts for a policy or if we lay down the law that always takes place re-examination, he doesn't have to explain that? Then you don't have to inform us as a chamber about that either. You don't know the information. If we chose that solution, we would at least have made it clear that this review is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	Let me come back to that in second place. This is going to be quite a complicated case, also because, of course, we are talking about the European Central Bank and we have simply agreed on its independence and its review. But let me come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	Following this. I simply think it is a good idea for Mr Ronnes to say that if such serious criminal offences have been committed, then by definition either the Netherlands Bank or the European Central Bank will re-examine them, depending on which bank they are under. So I would like to wholeheartedly endorse it. Then we do not have this miserable discussion, where DNB must indeed comply with the law and we all know nothing. That doesn't really help anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	Then you made your point; that was more in support of Mr Ronnes. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	I had the same question in my first term. Mr Ronnes and I also asked De Nederlandsche Bank about this at the hearing. We understand the confidentiality, we understand the dilemmas and we understand the secrecy, but Mr Elderson gave us an opening, namely that such automation at a certain limit is conceivable in the case of settlements or fines. That is the only thing Mr Ronnes and I are asking for. The Minister wants to come back to that in the second term, but we are still preparing a motion for a resolution. Is it imaginable...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	But the Minister will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	...to investigate that in such a way you meet the dilemmas of confidentiality and yet know that there has been a re-examination?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	The Minister said he'd come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	And for the sake of precision, we must realise that, precisely because it is a dual responsibility and we are dealing with the ECB, we must also look in particular at what we might want here but also at what we may, given the rules we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Nijboer and Mr Bruins asked about this dossier and procurement procedures. In the meantime, Mr Nijboer and I have had a few exchanges of views in writing. I am currently exploring what additional grounds for withdrawal are appropriate. I will also inform the Chamber about this in the near future. I look at those exclusion grounds for participation in procurement procedures, in addition to the inclusion of criminal convictions, and also at transactions and warnings, so the kind of things that we are dealing with here, of course. I would like to make the following point. Mr Bruins rightly said: I don't mean it as a joke, but what about really; wouldn't you also get in trouble with other banks? There is another issue that follows on from that. In any case, there are no handfuls of banks in the Netherlands that are able to deliver what the State requires from a home banker. So the dilemma is even greater than what Mr Bruins outlined. I will also spell it out in writing, but the number of banks that can carry out the tasks we expect is really very, very limited. Then I have had Mr Bruins' question and I go to the second block: supervision of the sector and supervision as a whole. Some of them have already been dealt with in the interruptions. Mr Ronnes asked about the lessons from the case. How are we gonna get this thing straightened out? Mr Van Dijck and others quite rightly asked about the exchange of information. I understand that question very well. There's a classic dilemma behind that. In my view, that was the case yesterday in a discussion some of the members had with the Dutch Banking Association. What has happened is extremely unsatisfactory. Someone gets ripped out of one couch, walks literally across the street and opens another account there, after which the game starts again from the beginning. I'd like to do something about that. I contacted the two colleagues next to me for the Christmas celebrations to see how we could make that happen. So that's what we're gonna do. I would like to point out to the House that, however bent this is on the one hand, on the other hand, we will have to look for a balance at the point of privacy, a point that we all have a high priority. We're gonna have to focus on that puzzle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	Was this point ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	This is an exact debate, so there is still a question about this. I have already asked whether there is any possibility of discussing the exchange of information between banks, but then there are indeed privacy aspects. My suggestion was "I think that was a bit the missing pin in the policy " a notification unusual customers. If banks could report it to the FIU, it is then up to the FIU or possibly the Public Prosecutor to see if further investigation is needed. Then it might be that you're getting in a little less trouble with privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	That's right. But I'd like to include that customer question in that investigation. Mr Sneller and Mr Snels asked specifically about this point. We will take that with us, as I said, to see whether that is the missing pin or the missing link, or whether it should be other things as well. I have answered Mr Van Dijck and Mr Ronnes' question. Mr Alkaya asked how it was realized that commerce no longer goes beyond integrity. That is a right point, on which De Nederlandsche Bank has indicated that things have gone wrong here because of a combination of cases. We've managed to get a lot of attention on these matters. Furthermore, I am thinking of additional regulation, including from Europe, which I believe we have implemented here in the summer of this year and additional regulation that will come. Please note that the supervisory authorities have already acquired important additional powers since the start of this investigation. Mr Nijboer asked if we could get more of these kinds of things. Of course, you'll never know for sure. I just indicated how I insisted on banks trying to get things in order. In the letter of 24 September, DNB indicated that the management of integrity risks in several banks is not automatically adequate. So this remains work in progress. Mr Alkaya asked if bank directors were responsible for the structure. Of course, the management of a bank is responsible for the bank's policy. One of the members referred to the toppings. That is, of course, a shameful way of doing business. Anyway, we are happy with the regulation and with this particular case a little further. Mr Ronnes asked how it is possible that Dutch banks are involved in the recently announced Russian money laundering, the Magnitski affair. For the record: no report has been filed against Dutch banks, the money flows would have entered the Netherlands between 2007 and 2015 I believe. Since then, several initiatives have been taken to identify these money laundering structures. An example of this is the round table session of DNB in 2017. But then we're actually back to the file I just mentioned. What can you do in the area of information exchange to ensure that you can act more appropriately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	The directors are, of course, responsible for how they organise their organisation. It is clear that this has not been adequate to fulfil the legal obligations. Of this, De Nederlandsche Bank says: they did so because they were so under pressure from the shareholder's return requirements. The return requirements of the shareholders must therefore be reduced, so that directors do not pay out such a large proportion of the profits to shareholders, but invest them, for example, in those control departments. Does the Minister share that view of De Nederlandsche Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	First of all, I believe that De Nederlandsche Bank has said that it cannot be possible to have the framework conditions for doing business in a good way, such as the framework conditions for money laundering, to suffer for the sake of commerce. That is how De Nederlandsche Bank formulated it and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	Another literal statement by Mr Knot was: if we want a banking system in which soundness goes beyond profit, then that is not a literal quote, but that is what I want to make of it, then the return requirements of the shareholders have to be reduced. That last part is a literal quote. Does the Minister share the view that the yield requirements of shareholders in the banking sector should be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	I agree with Mr Knot's statement, which I have just tried to quote or paraphrase. That's exactly what it should be. So there is a need for framework conditions: legal framework conditions and, of course, also what is more appropriate in the social sphere and which citizens and society are allowed to hold to. These conditions must be organized, they must be in order, they must be well-balanced and then commercialism comes. That is the way I would like to formulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	Finally, Mr President. Can we expect this minister to talk to the banks about how they are actually going to shape this? Because so far that has gone wrong. And with what kind of stick behind the door, he goes to the banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	I think I indicated that no one noticed that I had a conversation with ING on this subject and that I also had a conversation with other banks on this issue. The total range of regulation, deployment and capacity for money laundering is the answer to the second part of Mr Alkaya's question. Then Mr Nijboer asked about two issues that he and I had previously had an exchange of views on. He has inspired me, as I would put it, to enter a certain route that is also his. First of all, it was about cash payments. Mr Nijboer knows that the implementation of the AMLD4 will reduce the limit from €15,000 to €10,000. As far as I am concerned, it is obvious to await the effects of this, but this will certainly be a subject that we will take up again. The same goes for the trust offices. Mr Nijboer has often and rightly drawn attention to this. It is also a subject that is frequently on the agenda of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank and myself. It is coming back to the banking agenda which I sent to the Chamber just before Christmas, and I say this sincerely. I seem to recall that I also undertook to inform the Chamber at least once a year about the state of affairs in the trust sector. The next time will be around or just after the summer recess. Mr. Chairman. I have answered Mr Snels' question about customer research. Mr Snels was right to ask what the total European palette looked like. There's a few parts in there. Much has, of course, changed in recent years, partly through European legislation, but also through national legislation. Since the end of July 2018 we have the AMLD4. That amendment became known on 1 July. And there are, partly at the request of the Netherlands, new talks at the moment, for example, about EBA. This is not just being done by officials, but I have also discussed this with a lot of colleagues myself and said: "Listen, unless you think that this is all right with you pico bello, this may be a problem that you should also pay attention to and which we should ask ourselves whether we should not proceed with each other." I think the answer from the others was: yes, we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	I couldn't go any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	You've done your best. Fine. Mr Tony van Dijck, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	The Minister very quickly ignored the NVB's desire to see the Basic Registration Persons, the UBO Registry, and to be able to use crypt numbers, to find more targeted suspicious transactions and suspicious persons. The minister actually stepped over that and said: that has something to do with privacy. Does the Minister think that that should be possible? And should we change the legislation in such a way that privacy does not stand in the way of that and that the banks can jointly fight money laundering?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	It is always interesting to hear what I would have said just now in Mr Van Dijck's summary. In my opinion, I have just said that I find it a little toe-curious that the situation is as in the example of the gentleman or the lady who is marbled in the street at one bank and walks across the street to play the game from the front. The banks and the Dutch Association of Banks have rightly drawn my attention to this issue. That's what I just said. I have therefore reached out to both of my colleagues in the Justice and Security Committee before Christmas to see what we can do to solve these problems. That basket contains exactly the kind of suggestions that Mr Snels has just made. I would like to make the following point. I think it is quite right for banks to say: the legislator must help us in this search. That is why we need to look at the consequences of this in terms of privacy. Then we will come to a further moment of dialogue and consultation. That's what we'll have to do with the Chamber. But as a cabinet, we have to do our homework on that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	Finally, last question, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	I have a very small point. May I ask the Minister to involve the Dutch Data Protection Authority in doing that homework so that we do not have to do it after it has landed in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	Of course. I could have said that in the first instance: there is, of course, one of the potential friction points. Because we want two things all the time. We want this to be resolved and that this crime no longer occurs, but we also want to maintain privacy as high as possible. Sometimes that wrings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's supposed to obey the law. This applies to the people in the country but as well to large companies as ING. It is therefore serious that ING has for many years violated the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and has therefore been guilty of money laundering. So I understand all the public indignation that exists about this. It is good that we are having a debate on this today. I am also pleased that the Public Prosecutor's Office has acted hard against this. Mr Nijboer asked what you can do to ensure that it does not happen again in the future. I don't think those guarantees can ever be given. There is a great deal going on in the area of prevention, which my colleague has just said about, but it will of course help if a very clear standard is set. That's what's happening here. Before going into three themes, it is important to highlight briefly the following. During the whole discussion, it is on the one hand about administrative responsibility, for example, of a board of directors and of the people you can hold responsible for things that have not gone so well in an organisation. But, of course, in the area of justice, it's about criminal offences and the evidence that you need to collect to prove those crimes. This applies, for example, if you impose a fine, enter into a transaction or if you want to prosecute natural persons. I'm focusing on that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to touch briefly on three issues. The first concerns the settlement. Why did I approve this when the D.A. submitted it to me? The second is about the question of individuals. Why have no natural persons been prosecuted? The third issue concerns more the consequences. If you offer a transaction, what does that mean, for example, for the judicial documentation that Mr Bruins asked a question about? Mr President, to begin with the first point. The Public Prosecutor has offered the ING a transaction on the basis of the Note on the basis of high transactions and special transactions. This is an indication from the Public Prosecutor's Office which, moreover, has a long history and has been discussed extensively here in your Chamber on a procedure to be followed in such cases. I think that my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, will deal with the question of whether we should continue to do so in the future. Or would you possibly see another role before the judge in that? He'll go into that later. I had to do it with the clue that's there right now. I also need to be accountable. Mr. Chairman. At the time when the designation was drawn up, it was also foreseen in the discussion here in the Chamber that this type of high transaction is always subject to public debate and public concern. That's what you see in this case. The papers have been full of them. In order to enable an audience and a political debate, there is a role for the directors. The starting point for this type of case is: prosecute, unless. But there can sometimes be good reasons to refrain from prosecution and offer a transaction. In this case, that was the consideration of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Let me take out the most important elements for me too. The Public Prosecutor's Office has also been responsible for this in his presentation to the outside world. Two things were very important here, namely that it was very important in banking traffic too that it was quickly clarified and a standard was quickly set, and two, that the offer of a transaction could impose and enforce additional conditions that could not have been imposed by a court judgment. This was a large-scale package of compliance measures that the ING is required to take and the supervision by DNB. Mr Sneller said: compliance is actually the law, isn't that the least you can expect? Yeah, that's true. But this goes beyond what the law says. This is a more sophisticated programme with measures to be taken by the organisation to comply with compliance, which will then be subject to more stringent supervision by DNB. Mr President, there were of course a number of other issues involved, for example that the ING publicly acknowledged his mistakes, cooperated in the investigation and would also continue to actively allow the Public Prosecutor to investigate possible criminal offences arising from the deficiencies identified here. I say this in the direction of Mr Van Dijck, who asked about all the other issues or abuses identified in the investigation. It was precisely the ING's cooperation to enable the Public Prosecutor to investigate this further that was one of the reasons for entering into a transaction. I can't say too much about ongoing investigations. I don't think that's a good thing for this debate either. But Mr Van Dijck did ask specific questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	Since we do not know about this recovery plan as a Chamber, I try to understand the Minister's motivation. Does that recovery plan contain details, is it a stick behind the door that will enable the gatekeeper function to be fulfilled according to the legal standard? Or is it some kind of super-statutory, higher level of compliance that will be secured by this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, it's about the first one. The point is that it has been found that ING did not comply. It is important that this happens as soon as possible. Only, it takes a lot of effort to get from A to B. It also requires efforts from the organisation itself. Then of course you can say that everyone has to comply with the law. That's true. But the balance was also: if you go to prosecution, there will be a lot of time and energy in a trial in which one party tries to prove that there are offences, namely the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the other party might defend itself. Depending on the situation, it may not be enough to put the compliance right. Here we have chosen to get clarity quickly and to make additional agreements with the ING about how to become compliant as soon as possible and what is needed for this within the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	The other parts of the motivation I understand very well. Just, let's not make it the norm that if there's a lawsuit, there's less time to try to comply with that gatekeeper function. I think it's just a matter of keeping that legal standard high and in order. We expect that even and you aret a bank like ING will meet that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	I couldn't agree more. The public prosecutor's consideration was that with this transaction, combined with that compliance programme, that recovery to comply with the law could also be achieved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	Had it not been possible, or has it been considered, to have the supervisor scale up to ensure that ING complies with compliance? Wasn't there another route possible to do that outside the settlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	Now, perhaps, I am speaking a little for my colleague in Finance: that is the supervision of banks from DNB; that is always there, even without a settlement and even if, for example, a prosecution decision was taken. This is actually a spade on top of it. It's a more sophisticated way of following what ING is going to do to make sure they just comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. I said something about the improvement program. In criminal proceedings, a judge would only have had the opportunity to impose a fine, as has now happened with a transaction, but those measures and their supervision could not have been imposed. Through the disclosure of the facts and the transaction agreement, the Public Prosecutor's Office wanted to give as much transparency as possible as to what were the considerations for the Public Prosecutor's Office to proceed with a transaction. I am glad that Mr Sneller also said that he sees that the Public Prosecutor has also learned from other cases and previous cases where transactions have been offered, where there has been some discussion about the considerations that the Public Prosecutor's Office has taken into account. Much more attention has now been paid to this. I thought that was an important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	You're still on topic number one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	Yeah, but I'm almost done with the heading we approved this transaction. Mr Van der Linde asked if I could give him a look at the speed and speed of the matter. I said how different it would have been if the Public Prosecutor had prosecuted. That is, of course, difficult to say: we never know exactly how such a process goes. It takes a long time, in some cases years. And we are only talking about the first instance. It may well be that after a court ruling an appeal is brought and perhaps even then a cassation. Then you really talk about a long journey. We wanted to be clear about this very quickly. Mr. Chairman. All that was added up was the task of me to see if the Public Prosecutor could reasonably come to his decision to draw the unless-map in this case. I thought that there was a good basis for that and that there were good reasons for it. That is why, as I say in the direction of Mr Alkaya, I have approved it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	I'd like to know how much longer you're gonna need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. I talked first about why the approval was granted. I have two other issues: about natural persons and about the consequences for...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	We have the debate on gas extraction at 2.15 p.m. There are buses coming from Groningen for that. That is also very important. I'd like to know how much more time you'll need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	This was the biggest block of the three. I think I need five more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	Okay. Mr. Tony van Dijck, a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	It's about the settlement. It has unleashed an enormous amount of social outrage. If a citizen does something wrong, he's right in front of the judge and he can go straight to jail, but if a big bank really does something wrong, it's gonna be appropriate again. That's the tendency, the tone, which lives a little bit in society: you see; it's not fair. My question is whether, despite this settlement, individuals can still be prosecuted. The Minister did not reply to that. And is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	Two things. I'm going to say something about natural persons, but that can be done if there's enough evidence to prove it. The Public Prosecutor's Office has put a lot of energy into this case by tapping phones through all layers of organizations and checking e-mail traffic, but has not been able to find any evidence that individuals could be prosecuted. But that does not rule that out; I think that was also an explicit question from Mr Van der Linde. Suppose that in the future new facts would come on the table, then this transaction does not make it impossible for you to start a business on that. I understand that there is some kind of displeasure: how can it be that a bank does something very bad but that it is not apparent to individuals within that bank? Then let's get back to the other point you cut. Look, it is not automatically the case in the Netherlands that individual people are brought to justice and that large companies are always offered a transaction. That is why we should not keep repeating this in this house. Large companies are also being brought to justice; I can mention a number of concrete cases from the past. And there are also cases where individuals are offered a fine or transaction. That's customization all the time. You always have to look at what is most effective in restoring the rule of law. That was here, in this case, in my view a transaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	Finally, Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	I also read that the D.A. has not been able to identify persons who can be held responsible. I don't understand that, because there are people who are responsible for the compliance and the checks-and-balances. If they really can't be found, there's still the final responsibility. That's Ralph Hammers. At the very least, the prosecution could have taken Ralph Hammers to court to say: how is it possible that a bank like ING has been so negligent in all these years despite all the clues and messages from DNB? The D.A. could've brought Ralph Hamer to justice for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	The question of who is responsible for this, I understand very well. That is why I believe that my colleague has also had very intrusive discussions with the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, but there is a difference between being responsible for the failure of an organisation and having debt in criminal terms, being criminal. The Public Prosecutor's Office has really done its best to see if there is more than just a criminal offence at the level of the legal person, so ING as a company can't put you behind bars; you can only fine that; and whether there are also indications within the organisation that individuals have explicitly given the order not to do things. That has been thoroughly investigated; you have been able to read all of this back. I think we may all find it frustrating if you have looked at it so closely and if you can't find it, but in a rule of law you also have to prove that someone has committed a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mr. Alkaya, please be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	Yes, very briefly. The Minister states that speed was one of the reasons for reaching a settlement and for approving it, otherwise time and energy will be in a court of law. ING will then defend itself. That takes a long time and that is difficult, but I ask the Minister whether that is not the core of a rule of law and whether he, looking back on this and taking into account the fuss that Mr Van Dijck referred to, because that is what people feel: that it is unjust that the settlement would not have been approved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think that this was the most effective way of getting things back to normal, to pass a punishment on to ING because things really went wrong, but also to clean things up, to ensure in the future that the chance of repetition is as small as possible and to clarify to the whole banking sector that Justice does not let this sort of thing go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. At the same time, we do not want to confirm the image that the Minister also says is not true, namely that companies and banks get away with a settlement and that citizens should be brought to justice. Can we therefore rule out the possibility, next time a bank has to deal with a similar case, that we should settle again? Will bankers just go to trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	This is really considered on a case-by-case basis. I find it complicated to do so, because then we are going to talk fictitiously about a bank and we do not know at all what crimes are involved or what reasons will be the basis for the prosecutions and decisions of the Public Prosecutor. Even then, looking at the case, the Public Prosecutor will have to weigh it up. Perhaps it will say: in this case we are going to prosecute. That's basically the default option, that's the basis: persecuting, unless. There may also be good reasons for going to the Minister to ask if it is right that there should be a transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr Snels, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to be brief. My question concerns the additional conditions relating to the improvement plan or the recovery plan. Do these additional conditions indeed mean that De Nederlandsche Bank now has more powers to interfere with ING's organisation of compliance policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	It's not about formal powers. When you make a transaction, you make an agreement. I believe that the agreement concluded by the Public Prosecutor with ING has also been sent to you. It also contains a number of contractual terms on how the improvement plan will be worked between ING and DNB. That is something on top of the regular powers of DNB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	Please continue. Oh, no, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	I asked because earlier this morning we had that debate with the Minister of Finance about the satisfaction of De Nederlandsche Bank: less powers for research and only real action in cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I can easily imagine that De Nederlandsche Bank would like to have such powers with other banks, but she does not have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	You must ask my colleague that question. We come here to a bank that really wasn't in order. Of course, you prefer to have a bank that has it all in order. Then you can also have a DNB that just does it keyboardally. Then I think all these powers are fine. We have said here that improvements must be made quickly within the organisation of ING. ING had to draw up a plan for this. The agreement is that this will be monitored, that it will be monitored by DNB; this requires an additional effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	Really rounding up, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	It is fine if the Finance Minister comes back to this in the second term. This seems to me to be a competence with which I think De Nederlandsche Bank would be quite happy with other banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr. Chairman. I think I've already answered a lot of questions about prosecuting natural persons. There was no evidence found here. This also sometimes has to do with the complexity of an organisation where you say: people may be responsible for doing something and things have gone wrong, but it is not clear to one or more individual individuals that, for example, explicit instructions have been given to circumvent the law. Again in the direction of Mr Van der Linde and some others who asked questions about this, this is without prejudice to the fact that this transaction will not prevent prosecution in the future if new facts emerge. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Ronnes. He asked if there were enough legal grabs to prosecute individuals. My idea would be: yes. We have the Code of Criminal Law. If people do things they can't, we can prosecute them. Here, there was just no evidence. As frustrating as it may be, that's just different. This standard is also included in the judicial documentation for transactions above €100. The judicial documentation is the basis on which, for example, vogs are issued and the consideration is made: do you give an explanation of the behaviour? This may also apply to legal persons. In that sense, all this is recorded in the courts. Mr Nijboer asked a slightly different question. He says that procurement does not involve the use of legal persons, but rather of the so-called declaration of conduct. It takes into account that there must be an irrevocable conviction; transactions fall outside and there is some inequality in this. I recognise them, but they do find their basis in European laws and regulations on how to tender. My colleague, the Minister for Finance, has already indicated that house banking is being seriously explored or that additional conditions may be imposed on the GVA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u171	Mr. Chairman. I'll start... I'm gonna have to cough real bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u172	I'm gonna take the mic off until you cough out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr President, I shall start again. Let me start with a crucial point in this debate: how do we deal with such transactions in the future? I suggest that in the future too, if there is a high transaction, the Public Prosecutor's Office will be the one to assess this. It comes to the Minister of Justice and Security only when the Public Prosecutor's Office in an individual case based on the specific circumstances of that case and when everything comes to the conclusion that settlement transaction is most appropriate. This means that we do assess on a case-by-case basis what should happen. By the way, "we" isn't me, it's the D.A.'s office. We must continue to realise this; that is precisely part of our rule of law. Following that, the aim is currently to include a judicial review in this context in the future. Let me say the following first. It is also up to the Public Prosecutor to investigate, for example, criminal offences. Mr Bruins asked a question about this. Would this result in an irrevocable conviction in the case of a second transaction? That too is, in the end, another consideration which, in accordance with our rule of law, must first and foremost be made by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It also looks at the criminal history. I'm not gonna do that as a minister. But I told you, there is a motion by Members Van Nispen and Groothuizen about introducing a judicial test for high transactions. I have left this judgment to the House. In the coming period, efforts will be made to modernise the Code of Criminal Procedure in such a way as to ensure that the judicial review of such high-level transactions is carried out. At the moment, I am also working on legislation in good consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office to see how that might best work. There was Mr Sneller's question: is the closed council procedure proposed in the policy response to the evaluation of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act the best procedure for that? I sent you that evaluation at the end of last year. We're just gonna have to go check that out at my ministry in the next few days. In any case, I have already indicated some initial contours which could be of interest in the design of that judicial test. But I will return to your Chamber at a later stage. There were some questions from Mr Snels and Mr Van Dijck about those reports, with the idea that there were only 29 searches. Well, we have to qualify that number just as well: that's the number of investigations that were picked up by the FIOD alone, so it doesn't look at the total. It is very important to stress that the information of the FIU-Netherlands about suspicious transactions is used in many different ways in the detection: as a source of information, start-up information or evidence. This should be seen, for example, in the situation that sometimes one suspicious transaction is already the cause of an investigation, while in other cases you will have to have a series of coherent suspicious transactions, again combined with other kinds of information. These suspicious transactions are also used as guidance information to see if a more structural criminal investigation can be carried out. In the latter case, it is also not earmarked as leading to an investigation from that FIU information. But the FIU has proved to be an extremely useful institution. I say to Mr Ronnes that I already informed the Chamber of the capacity of the FIU by letter of December 2016: we are going to expand it. The number of FTEs has now increased from 57 to 63. This is, of course, done in conjunction with the FIU. So we are very strongly committed to this. For the sake of time, I will not go into detail here about the dashboard, but you noticed what I just said about the FIU and how the Public Prosecutor and other services deal with the information of the FIU, which is not so much a dashboard. I also think that we would then have to move a little bit here and there, legally, and we should not want to do that. Mr President, I am at the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u174	One short question, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet's response to the motion I mentioned clearly precedes a closed chamber procedure, but from the Minister's reply I understand that it is still being considered whether open or decided would be better. Can I interpret him in such a way that this is still an open matter, which is still being sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u175	It is still a very open issue, not a closed issue, how we are going to shape that judicial review. That is really going to be an important point. I would like to stress to the Chamber once again that, quite soon after I took office, I indicated to the Public Prosecutor that I felt that we should start designing something to review it with an independent body or the judge, so that we can avoid this kind of discussion for the public too. I have not had any interference in this case, but, of course, a very careful consideration is being made by the prosecution as to whether it is just. It's good to say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u176	One short question from Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u177	Mr. Chairman. I have here a motion from Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Oosten asking that a criminal investigation into the actual managers and client always be carried out in the event of a settlement. That motion was adopted unanimously on 22 November last year. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u178	Well, that motion was already carried out before it was filed, let alone executed. That's what I explained to the Chamber. That is why I gave the motion a heartfelt judgment Chamber. The way in which the Public Prosecutor works in these kinds of investigations really belongs to the state of the art. It is, of course, very close to the extent to which not only legal persons but individuals can be prosecuted and/or tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u179	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u180	Very briefly. So you are actually saying that this motion is superfluous, because it is already happening. Then I wonder if the D.A. has looked at who set up these systems to give up to three reports and then let everything through. Someone did. Those aren't the leprechauns. Someone ordered it, and someone made that decision. These are all people who are responsible for the large money laundering at ING. So there was a cap on three reports, which allowed all other reports to proceed freely. Did the D.A. look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u181	On the first question: I do not expressly say that the motion was superfluous. I think it was very good that this has been highlighted in the Chamber and that there is general support for it. It is also one of the core tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I am not going to deal with the specific matter, because in this case it was Mr Dekker. He might still be able to respond to it. However, in general terms, all relevant circumstances are taken into account by the Public Prosecutor's Office, whether they are possible prosecutions for money laundering or any crime, and there is a thorough examination where there is evidence that people have committed or are complicit in individual offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u182	The Minister began by saying that any settlement request is considered on a case-by-case basis and that this is part of a rule of law. I would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister. He means this is the case with the D.A.'s office, right? Because if such a settlement request comes to the cabinet, it is explicitly submitted for approval and not for information. Then it becomes part of the political debate. Then the outcome of the political debate could be, as Mr Nijboer, Mr van Dijck and myself, among others, said, that we do not want to do so anymore. We do not want to look at it on a case-by-case basis; we simply do not want to have a settlement in certain cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u183	If, in certain cases, you no longer want a settlement, it is up to your Chamber to prepare a legislative amendment. I would like to stress that this is a key element of the rule of law that I will always stand for and that the Public Prosecutor's Office, which scores extremely high international scores on all rankings, determines in the Netherlands whether all the circumstances of the case lead to the probability of certain offences and then whether that should lead to prosecution in all the circumstances of that case or not. If you, as a Chamber, were to say that some situations should be excluded, you would have a proper legislative task, but once again, you may, of course, initiate that legislation. As Minister of Justice, I will certainly ensure that this legislation is complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u184	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u185	Yeah, finally. I do not doubt the legal knowledge of this minister, but what he is saying here is really nonsense. Or he's deceiving us here. If such a request for a settlement is submitted to the cabinet, normally to the minister himself in this case it was up to the Minister for Legal Protection, but normally this minister will have to approve it. Isn't that becoming part of the political debate? Then we can make a political request, can't we? Then we can ask the Cabinet not to accept such a settlement request in certain cases. Then it's not anti-legal or anything like that, what the minister is suggesting here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u186	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u187	No. That is why I say that you will really have to come up with legislation. The Minister of Justice can take a marginal test. He can see if the D.A.'s intention to enter into that high transaction can pass the test, but that's very marginal. And if your Chamber were to say 'we now believe that certain cases should no longer be eligible for transaction', I would be open to a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u188	This is a repeat of an earlier answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u189	Well, it wasn't a deception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u190	No. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. I will do my best to read out two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, ING has favoured commerce over risk management, which has meant that internal supervision has been out of order for years and criminal money has been laundered on a large scale through this bank;]] [[noting that the return paid by Dutch banks to shareholders is still very high, and for example tens to hundreds of times higher than the interest they promise to people with a savings account;]] [[considers that the return of banks to shareholders should never be at the expense of carrying out their statutory tasks, including in the fight against money laundering;]] [[considers that the gap between dividend yields and savings rates is too high;]] [[Calls on the government to engage with the banking sector with a view to distributing a smaller share of the profits to shareholders and spending a larger share on better controls on suspicious transactions and raising interest rates on savings;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of a temporary ban on the distribution of profits to banks and to return the results to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that high transactions, such as settlements with the Public Prosecutor's Office, are submitted for prior approval by the Minister of Justice and Security in accordance with the "Designation of High Transactions and Special Transactions";]] [[noting that the Government has approved the settlement between the Office and ING and has thereby prevented legal proceedings;]] [[considers that directors of banks who are structurally failing in the performance of their statutory tasks, including in the fight against money laundering, should be accountable to a judge;]] [[calls on the Government to stop adopting settlements relating to financial institutions and their legal obligations in preventing money laundering, fraud, corruption and terrorist financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-29]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u192	Certainly in view of the change just made between Mr Alkaya and the Minister, I would ask: should I read this motion in such a way that the Cabinet/Minister should fully examine such a request from the Public Prosecutor rather than marginally? Or that, even if it's against the law, it's just like, "Go ahead?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u193	I'm not convinced it's against the law. It will be part of the political debate. There is a strong indication that it will be submitted to the Minister for approval. If we in the Chamber say that we do not want this, and several parties have done so, then I am prepared to look at its wording. But I want a political signal: this kind of thing in the fight against money laundering and that the banks do not take it seriously, then I no longer want it to be appropriate. Then I want those bankers brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u194	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u195	No, I agree with all the political signals, but in my opinion, there is also an indication that the question is for the cabinet: could the prosecutor have reasonably come to it? In other words, that marginal review. And if I understand you correctly, the thrust of this motion is a different one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u196	It is clear that if ING had not been appointed here, a representative of ING would have appeared before a court. It should have explained how this could have happened. And by agreeing to this settlement, the cabinet prevented it. And as far as I'm concerned, what would be the outcome of such a course of justice is secondary. So that is the idea of profitability that I do not support in this case. I want to see justice done so that people's sense of justice is not harmed and bankers are also brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the case must in future be brought before the courts in such major cases or abuses. That is what I put forward in the first period. We'll talk about that later. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his commitment, if appropriate, to see whether this can be used as an exclusion ground for future procurement. We have two executives from Justice and Security. They will come out with the European legal situation, so that must be possible. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. The Minister was already moving a bit in this direction, so maybe we'll come to a comparison together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas cash payments of large amounts carry a high risk of money laundering;]] [[Whereas overnight payments are more likely at large amounts and are more manageable in the fight against money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing;]] [[Whereas the reporting limit of €10,000 is very high and the cash-laundering possibilities are thus not sufficiently removed;]] [[calls on the Government to consider further reduction of the reporting limit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already said it, but I think that Mr Ronnes has made a very good point with regard to the review. That will support the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answers, too, on my behalf. I regret, however, that ING is now getting away with a settlement and no legal proceedings are taking place. The speed and merchantship of these rulers have won over integrity and sense of justice. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been found that large cases of fraud in the financial sector are often subject to fines;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that fraud-making bankers are always prosecuted under criminal law and cannot escape with a settlement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u202	Because, as I said in the case of interruption, someone programmed those systems so that only three money-laundering signals were issued. Someone gave the construction company in Suriname 15 ATMs. Someone allowed the lingerie store in Amsterdam to pin on Curaçao. Those who are responsible for this are not legal persons, but people of flesh and blood. They have to answer for that and pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u203	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. Then I will go to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with the Minister for Finance that we are moving forward. Both the laws and regulations and the actions of De Nederlandsche Bank have improved. Perhaps even the actions of banks themselves in the financial sector have improved. At the same time, there is a great deal of frustration in this debate. I think we'll share that a little bit. That has something to do with the settlements: why aren't people in court? I have not yet received an answer to my question about the implementation of the Klever/Dijkhoff motion (35000, No. 12), which the cabinet is going to look at. It also has something to do with the confidentiality of re-examinations. I will table a motion on this with Mr Ronnes. It also has to do with the fact that it is difficult for us as a Chamber to follow how effective De Nederlandsche Bank can actually be, because confidentiality and confidential supervisory information are also on the agenda. That remains difficult and complicated. I myself would like to table one motion on the exchange of information. I know the Minister is going to investigate that. It looks in particular at the implementation practice of the money laundering policy. I think there is a more fundamental issue here, which may also have to do with European legislation and regulations. In my opinion, there is a gap in the laws and regulations: customers that we do not trust are slipping through the loopholes in the laws and regulations and therefore the implementation practice. I think we should investigate that. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is undesirable for suspicious customers to escape the attention of the supervisor by switching from bank;]] [[noting that banks are currently not obliged to report to the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) that they have refused a customer or said goodbye to a customer;]] [[Whereas the Government is to examine whether the implementation practice of the anti-money laundering policy in the Netherlands can be improved by reporting or exchanging more information;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in the planned investigation, whether an unusual customer reporting obligation laid down by law and regulation, including at European level, is an opportunity to tackle money laundering more effectively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the three directors for the first-term response. I would like to come back to three points in the second term. First of all, that is the answer given by the Minister of Justice, who dealt in particular with the FIU. He indicated that a letter was written in December 2016 announcing that an extension would take place at the FIU. That's great, but something has happened since 2016. When I look at how banks scale up the search for possible money laundering activities, I ask myself: is what was said in 2016 sufficient? My request to the Minister would be to look again closely at developments in the banking sector, what is coming towards the FIU and whether the measures announced and taken at that time are indeed sufficient. Then there is a second point. That is for the Minister for Legal Protection or perhaps the Minister for Finance. It concerns the additional compliance provided for in the agreement with regard to the settlement. With me, the question remains: what can we, as a Chamber, learn from it when making legislation, with which the supervisor can do something at a later stage? For this, we need to know what is in that agreement, but not in the regular regulations. What's the difference between them? After all, that is what the Minister indicated. Could he let the Chamber know the difference between the regular regulations and what is additional in them? Then there is the third point. What I came back to was, of course, that review of directors in the banking sector. I made a motion for it. It speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that financial market supervisors have the task of checking the reliability and suitability of directors of financial institutions;]] [[whereas AFM/DNB and the ECB, at the direction of DNB, may also re-examine directors if there is a "reasonable reason" for this, but "reasonable reason" is not specified;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to legally establish or otherwise ensure that in any case, in the case of a settlement, penalty or conviction (of a minimum size to be determined) a financial institution is subject to a standard review of the responsible policy makers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u206	No motions, Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess that makes sense. I would like to thank the Ministers for their comprehensive reply. I think it is a good thing that we have had this debate today in the end. I think it has been held in a somewhat different atmosphere than if we had had this debate a week after the announcement. That has advantages, and there are disadvantages. I thank the Minister for the commitment on the exchange of information between banks via the FIU. I am curious about the results of this and, as Mr Snels' motion says, about the European pathway. As Mr Ronnes also said, I get the impression from the Minister for Legal Protection and he rightly referred to the Minister of Finance for the follow-up question "DNB could now do more things, that ING could have done differently and that the same DNB says: it plays with more banks. I think we need to get back to that, and I would like to get a move on that from this minister. Then it is a busy playing field of supervisors: ECB, DNB, EBA, also the FIOD, FIU, OM. There is still some unsatisfactory, and some discomfort and frustration. I have already said that this is part of the rule of law, but I would like to quote the Remkes State Commission, which said that there has been an extension of such authorities, leading to what some people have come to call a regulatory state. There is a risk that politicians will be able to say that they are no longer talking about it, whereas the voters would like to appeal to politicians about it. Voters should then be able to be convinced of the need for such institutions. I would like to put this challenge to the Ministers for the second time, but also as a permanent point of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u207	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u208	Mr. Chairman. I thank the ministers for their answers. It is now four months since that settlement was reached, that transaction, I say in good legal jargon. 775 million has been transferred, ING has gone through the dust twice. And, of course, that changes the tone of the debate we have had today, but not the seriousness. We're still stuck with the fried pears or, as the Prime Minister would say, a little vase broke. There is still the feeling in society: these bankers have been able to do this and could run away with it. We cannot change that, nor can the ministers change that. Unfortunately, that is another task for all banks to simply do their homework. I repeat once more: it is so important that banks now put their own customers on a pedestal, that the ordinary Dutch people, even people with once or twice a modal that is not profitable, just get their leninks, are helped and also get a little customization. If banks do that in the coming years, then that confidence in the financial sector will finally return. Because in the end we want banks that are just honest, safe and understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u209	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Finally, Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u210	Mr. Chairman. I thank the three ministers for the answers. One specific point I have talked about is the inclusion of settlements in the contract behavior declaration, because somewhere it is unsatisfactory. Actually, it feels like a bummer. You buy a bummer, the old instrument of the bummer, and then it's like nothing ever happened. We like to be merciful to the sinner, but we are never merciful to sin. And somewhere it must be engraved that something has happened, and that is in that declaration of conduct contracting. There are now only irrevocable convictions and not the settlements. I have heard very well the answer from the Minister for Legal Protection, which must first be determined whether something can be done about this within EU legislation. But if that is possible and if that is allowed, I would very much like to see the next motion put into effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only irrevocable convictions are taken into account when applying for a declaration of conduct under the Judicial Documentation System;]] [[Considers that it should be possible for settlements on committed crimes to take into account when the authorities consult the Judicial Documentation System on possible objections to the procurement of a public contract with a particular company;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that settlements on committed offences involving legal persons are involved in the assessment of the application for a declaration of conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u211	Mr. Chairman. There was one point left from the first term. That was Mr Ronnes' point, but I shall come back to the motions. Mr Sneller has asked a new question in his second term, namely what is actually left on the screen if you look at the entire money laundering domain. Given the seriousness of this problem, I would honestly say to Mr Sneller that, with all the restrictions on confidentiality and also the information I get, I am going to try to see if we can not give the Chamber a sort of overview of what happened last year to matters that have been published, to information that is publicly available to at least do something about monitoring each other on the basis of public information. I would like to say this in his direction, because I think this problem is so serious that we must at least do everything, including in that area, to improve the situation. Then I'll be on the motions. The first, in part No. 29, belongs to Mr Alkaya. I agree with many of his considerations. It is true that the talks are already going on, but in the second part of the operative part in particular there are things that I do not think are sensible. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. The second motion tabled by Mr Alkaya, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I propose to Mr Nijboer that his motion be put to the vote. 31 to be retained. I have already said in the first term that we are going from €15,000 to €10,000. Let's measure the effect of that. I think that Mr Nijboer and I are pulling on the same side of the rope when it comes to trying to get rid of the things that give us too much exposure towards criminal behavior. If the monitor shows after a year that the effect is limited and that it is wise to lower the limit, then I'm going to do that con amore. I therefore ask Mr Nijboer to hold his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u212	We had already started the year constructively yesterday. We went through that together today, so I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u213	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motion (11477, No. 31). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u214	Thank you to Mr Nijboer. Mr Van Dijck's motion on item No. 32. I am therefore in favour of Mr Snels' motion for a resolution. 33. If I look at it quite legally, I have actually already agreed to the request in the motion in the first term. In this sense, the motion seems to be superfluous, but let me begin the new year with Mr Snels and give the motion a Chamber. I do see this as part of the research that the two colleagues and I want to have carried out. I am at the pièce de résistance of Mr Ronnes, the motion in part No. 34 and the investigation. Yes, I admit that research, but I would like to repeat what dilemma will arise quite soon after the start of the research. That is the absolute independence of the ECB and the fact that I am not just dealing with the rules to which the ECB has to conform. Mr Ronnes feels the understatement that lies in that sense. With that remark, I would like to undertake the investigation. I will also inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u215	Mr Bruins obviously has another question on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u216	Has that taken over the motion, or does this "judge chamber" get?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u217	"Judge Chamber," said the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u218	I think that's what I said. Then I come to the Bruins motion in part No. 35. I would like to ask Mr Bruins, precisely given my answer to Mr Nijboer, if he would just take the place and hold the motion. I would just like to find out very carefully what the possibilities and opportunities are for this tender. I'm going to inform the Chamber about that. I would then, of course, like to implement this in the contracts that the State has to conclude in the procurement process, in the future too, at least in the procurement procedures that also run through my plate. The motion is a little broader, so I think it is useful that I should perhaps consult the Minister for Foreign Affairs as well as these two colleagues, because this is about the award of a public contract. I would therefore ask Mr Bruins to hold the motion, although he gave my answer to Mr Nijboer, I think I know what my inspiration is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mr. Bruins, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u220	I hear I'm getting an answer in a letter that's still coming. What's about the timing of that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u221	I think I said in the short term. That's an easy term, but we're talking weeks and not months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u222	Then I'll hold the motion before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u223	At the request of Mr Bruins, I propose his motion (11477, No. 35). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u224	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u225	Mr. Chairman. The Alkaya motion in part No. 30 and the Tony van Dijck motion in part No. 32 I treat mostly the same. I will not advise them both, but I will make the following point very clearly for the sake of explanation. We have a rule of law, in which the Public Prosecutor's Office is the responsible authority for determining whether criminal proceedings should be instituted in a situation or whether a transaction should be dealt with. The fact that the marginal test on that decision must be brought to justice in the event of high transactions is something I have already said in the first term: the Chamber and I agree on. We should not then pursue the prosecution policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office by agreeing when in categories of cases the Public Prosecutor must prosecute or when not. This is completely inconsistent with our rule of law. I just want to say that out loud. I would also like to say that if your Chamber thinks that there are categories of suspects, persons or bodies that should always be prosecuted by law in any case, your Chamber should adopt a legislative amendment to that effect. I think that's a legal systematically impossible task. I would like to put a stop to this, Mr President, because you really wanted to say some other things to each other today: we are on the right track together by saying 'we are going to have a judicial review of the high transactions'. If we go down that road, I am sure that we will only enjoy our rule of law. That is why I am against the two motions which I have recommended, those tabled by Mr Alkaya in respect of item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 30 on the elimination of settlements with financial institutions, and Mr Van Dijck's on the continued prosecution of fraudulent bankers. There was another question from Mr Ronnes. Shall I go into that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u226	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u227	I'm gonna do that real quick, and we're all gonna have one. Mr Ronnes' question was: is capacity expansion sufficient to keep up with developments? Yes. This capacity increase started in 2016 for a period of several years. This capacity can also be used for current developments. One important point is that the banks, as Mr Ronnes rightly points out, are now also very clearly engaged in expanding their own capacities. I also think that is a good thing. I think we all find that here in this house, including us who are guests from the cabinet. The banks are now very much inclined to expand their capacities in this respect. Finally, I had the motion in part No. 35. The honourable Member has already said something about this, but I would like to support his request for this motion to be held. I think this is much better in the context of this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u228	Yeah, that's already done. Thank you. Mr. Snels, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u229	The Minister gives a very basic answer to the question of when or not to be suitable and who is going to do so, but a Klever/Dijkhoff motion has been adopted by the General Reviews, which asks the Cabinet to evaluate how this policy works in the financial sector and whether improvements can be made. I have already asked him twice how the cabinet is going to implement this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u230	Short response, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. Then I must admit through you that I seem to have not been clear enough about this. On the one hand, the cabinet is in the process of changing the legal regulations into criminal proceedings, and on the other hand, the cabinet returns to the evaluation in a letter. In doing so, we look very closely at how this works for the high transactions that have been there. This applies, moreover, to transactions with financial institutions, but I had already announced that I wanted to look at all the high transactions in the broad sense, whether they actually have the right criminal law effect, the right prevention effect for the future, but I also wanted to say that we did not talk too much about this today, and let us be clear about the good side-penalty effect of all the publicity generated by high transactions and which does not give a positive signal to the person concerned. That's another punishment we're taking with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr Ronnes, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u233	Mr. Chairman. The minister says the banks are on the move when it comes to the scaling-up. I am getting signals that banks have already scaled up and are still working on it. My concern is that the FIU will soon be flooded by all unusual transactions. My question to the Minister is whether he does not want to look again at whether that will fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u234	I will come back to that, because I did not say that explicitly in the first period. Of those 22,000 reports, 5,000 have been passed through the FIU, so to speak, for investigations and the like. I think that is a very large percentage of what is being done with it. I think we should continue with that. I can also assure you that I will continue to monitor closely whether the FIU keeps up with the banks, but we did feel that the leg should now be expanded on that side, and that is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u235	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-3.u236	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
