ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Snels, Tony van Dijck, Leijten, Nijboer, Van Raan, Van Rooijen and Azarkan amending the Financial Supervision Act to tighten up the definition of "fixed remuneration" and introduce a right of assent for the Minister of Finance with regard to the determination or increase of the fixed remuneration of a manager of a systemically relevant bank (34906). I would like to welcome all the initiators. They are supported in the defense of their bill in box K by Luc Stultiens, policy officer at the GroenLinks Group. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiators. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. He will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u2	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the proposers, who are with a great company. That probably explains the length of the title of the bill. At the heart of the legislative proposal is the question: should we not, as a society, exercise a little more control over the remuneration of presidents of large system banks? This bill makes a number of proposals for this. A year ago we were here in this Chamber, also because of great social commotion. Then 148 MPs in this house adopted a motion from my GroenLinks colleague Bart Snels, one of the initiators, against the proposed salary increase of as much as 50% for the chairman of the ING Bank. A few weeks later, ING withdrew that salary proposal and admitted to the Supervisory Board that they had underestimated the public response in the Netherlands to this sensitive issue. You might think that ING has taught them their lesson by now, but yesterday we read in the Financial Times that ING's remorse was only valid for a year. The CEO once again advocated easing bonus rules in the Netherlands, partly to lure British financial companies to the Netherlands. How hard learners can you be and how strange are you as a system bank if you again and again cannot find a connection with what is social in the Netherlands? Has the bank still not realised that the average Dutch employee has not been getting more than the inflation correction for many years and that it is inappropriate to come up with this kind of exorbitant salary increases but also with this kind of constant pleas to abandon bonus rules? GroenLinks therefore thinks it is high time to take action and use this bill to limit excessive rewards for system bank administrators. I therefore thank all the initiators once again for their work. I also congratulate them on the elegant and effective solutions they put forward in their legislative proposal. In fact, today's debate is about a number of questions. Is this law the right thing to do? Is it not better to leave this to the sector itself or is it really necessary to intervene so firmly? To answer these questions, I'll take you back in time. On 30 March 2009 this Saturday exactly ten years ago, the banking sector concluded a gentlemen's agreement. In that gentlemen's agreement, agreements were made on sustainable and moderate rewards, because the gentlemen of the banking sector did not want to cause any more public noise because of overly generous rewards. Together they decided to ensure a socially-supported remuneration policy and thus a socially-supported functioning of the financial system. A month later, in April 2009, the Consultative Commission on Future Banks presented its report Towards Restoration of Trust. This report showed, among other things, that the level of top income in the banking sector should be related to generally accepted views in society about equitable remuneration, that this had not been the case in recent years on a broad front and that there was too much focus on shareholders' interests and too little on society's interests. In 2011, the ING summit had to waive their bonuses because of the fuss that had arisen about this. Board Chairman Hommen said that ING had not sufficiently assessed the signal from the reward to Dutch society. That's what he said then, isn't it? The annual report also stated that ING wanted to ensure that ING's remuneration would not again be the subject of public debate. We've seen how that turned out differently. In early 2013, the banker's oath was mandatory. Bankers promise to make a careful balance of interests, including between customers, shareholders, employees and society. Moreover, bankers are considered to contribute to society's trust in the bank. In 2015, there was once again a fuss about the increase in the salary at ING. Topman Hammers improved 28% in 2015 and his fixed salary amounted to 1.63 million euros. After that we saw in 2018 the fuss about the salary increase by no less than 50%; I already referred to that. In short, in recent years we have seen a pattern that is constantly repeated, a accumulation of good intentions, a gentlemen's agreement, an Advisory Committee on Future Banks, annual reports with good intentions and even a banker's oath, but in practice we see something else. The banks give the CEOs and the directors salary increases that are too high and at odds with all those intentions. The conclusion is clear to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: the time of self-regulation and good intentions has not led to structural changes. More robust action is therefore more than justified. That's why I'm so happy with this bill. Because if we don't take action now, we'll be back here next year. Then the bill itself. I believe that the initiators explain why they are focusing on the financial sector. The financial sector is fundamentally different from other sectors in the market because of its function and the regulatory role played by the government. The sector plays a useful role in terms of payments and distribution of credit. These are also system functions, which must underpin the confidence that, even under exceptional circumstances, grail money retains its real value in our entire economy. Undermining that confidence can lead to bank runs and sudden flight of capital, with major economic consequences and also social disruption as a result. Precisely because system banks play an incomparable role in society, the approach proposed by this law is a responsible restriction of property rights, especially because otherwise the risk of losses having to be collectiveised is too great, i.e. we, as taxpayers, are to blame. However, I also have a few substantive questions about the legislative proposal. My first question to the initiators is whether they share my view that the recently published WRR report on the public role of banks, entitled Money and Debt, actually provides additional arguments that further underpin the added value of this law. The initiators argue, and rightly so, that the existing ceiling of variable remuneration is being undermined in practice, because, in fact, there are elements in the fixed remuneration, the fixed salary, which consist of shares in the company or other financial instruments whose increase in value is also dependent on the increase in value of the company as a whole. Have they also looked further ahead at possible ways of circumventing the rules advocated by their law in the future? Or have they designed this law in such a way that the possibilities for doing so are severely restricted? Then I have a few questions for the Minister of Finance. It is very helpful that the proposers stress that at the time when the Minister of Finance's approval is to be given, there is only a proposal for remuneration. It's not a final decision yet. The actual remuneration decision will be final only after the shareholders have approved it. Does the Minister agree with the proposers that the prudential supervision of the ECB on this point only starts when the consent of the shareholders to the remuneration package is established? Does he also share the view that this will also allow the ECB to remain responsible for full supervision in the last and decisive instance? In his letter on the initiative law, the Minister writes that the proposal "confronts fundamental concerns and concerns." Does the Minister consider that the applicants have adequately addressed the issues raised by the Advisory Section of the Council of State in their amended explanatory statement? If not, I'd like to hear why. Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the Minister to explain why he chose the term 'fundamental objections'. What is so fundamental about these objections? Is there not only a possible difference in understanding of what would be more appropriate and proportionate? I look at the measures announced by the Minister himself. If the Minister feels otherwise about this and sees something really fundamental at risk, then I would like to know what that is. The Minister considers that the primary responsibility for remuneration policy lies with the directors, supervisory directors and shareholders of financial companies. Well, everybody actually thinks so, so do I. But I don't understand why a secondary responsibility, so just say the pair of eyes that, as a guardian of the social interest, would not be appropriate. A good balance in checks-and-balances has brought prosperity and well-being to the Netherlands. That good balance can be found here, can't it? There's no fundamental objection to that, is there? We don't know the saying for nothing: force strange eyes? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a number of questions for the Minister on disciplinary law in the banking sector. The former head of supervision of the Dutch Association of Banks, Simon Lelieveldt, has already filed a complaint about ING's summit more than a year ago. For example, we were able to read about this in an article by Follow the Money. His complaint is that drivers failed to pull the brakes when last year's infamous salary increase was at stake. Normally, four weeks go by before a complaint is dealt with and that period can be extended. In this case, it's been over a year. How does the Minister view this? How can this take more than a year? Is there a lack of administrative will, priority or courage to respond adequately to this? Is this disciplinary law adequate as it is currently regulated? Should we also consider whether the procedures should be tighter? How does the Minister assess the ruling of this former DNB employee and head of supervision of the Dutch Association of Banks that banking disciplinary law appears to be doomed? That is a very strong qualification. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. Mr President, I am at the end of my speech. I'm closing up. Once again, many thanks to the initiators and I wish them every success in defending this beautiful law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Because this is a legal procedure, there is a little more room in the speaking time. This was exactly ten minutes. I shall now give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Ronnes, from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal for an initiative by various parties. First of all, of course, congratulations to the initiators, who have taken the trouble to turn their ideas into legislation. That is always an intensive journey, so that's why compliments are in order here. For the CDA, too, it is important that the regulation of the sector is not yet complete. But the crucial question is how? Unfortunately, as far as the content of the initiative proposal is concerned, I am less enthusiastic so far. In any case, the legislative proposal raises some fundamental questions about the role of the government in the private market. I also have questions about the usefulness, necessity and effectiveness of the proposed measures. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA the market is not sacred and in certain cases government intervention is conceivable. The CDA also sees that systemically relevant banks need to be regulated more than other companies because of their position in the economy. This is also reflected in the Minister's plans for three concrete measures which he recently presented, which we are in principle in favour of. Mr. Chairman. With their plans, the initiators put the minister and thus the government very much at the heart of the matter when it comes to private parts in business operations such as remuneration policy. At the moment, of course, we are regulating this, but by doing so we are trying to get the perverse incentives out of the market, from a sector where things went badly wrong not so long ago. Making this a healthy market again is ultimately good for the citizen. As far as I am concerned, it is not yet convincing how this bill will reduce risky action in financial institutions and how citizens will be helped if the minister decides in future what the permanent salaries of the directors are. Can the initiators indicate what they are based on? Mr. Chairman. The bill introduces a destination requirement for systemically relevant banks when it comes to determining or increasing remuneration. The Minister will then have to consider directors' remunerations. The initiators also think of a role for the Lower House and even the Upper House. How do the initiators see this? On what basis should the Minister approve a planned wage increase? I see that it must be rewards that fit in with careful, controlled and sustainable remuneration policies. Of course, that's not really a hold-up for the Minister. Can the initiators make what they are thinking more concrete? Is an increase of 10% allowed? If not, do 5% or 1%? Or should we be talking about concrete amounts? Is that what the Minister is going to negotiate on behalf of the people? Do the initiators also see that arbitrariness is lurking, depending on the minister's vision? Do they consider this desirable? I also ask the initiators what consequences the transfer of a head office to, for example, Frankfurt of De Nederlandsche Bank will have for the legislative proposal. Can the banks avoid the Minister's permission requirement? Mr. Chairman. Those were some specific questions about the precise implementation of the bill, but I would like to go back to the basis of the bill. In fact, the initiators refer to the financial crisis and the system of perverse incentives, which have contributed to the emergence of the crisis, but want to address the firm remuneration of directors. I would like to hear from the initiators on which they base that the fixed remuneration of a driver affects the risks a driver takes. To what extent will this bill contribute to the prevention of a new crisis? This is not apparent from the explanatory statement or from the replies in the written round. So I'd still like to hear this. I would also like to hear from the Minister how he thinks about this. The immediate trigger for this bill was, of course, the announced raise of ING's top man last year. This was eventually reversed because of the social unrest that arose among citizens, customers, as well as ING staff and, of course, with us as politics. This illustrates for us the strength of society. Do the initiators have a weak trust in society? Why should this be regulated in legislation? Should the Minister be given such a role? Don't the initiators see any use in making switching to another bank easier so customers can vote better with their feet? My group regards the large differences in pay between managers and employees of a company as a greater problem for large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u5	I see an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u6	I hear a lot of questions, but maybe it's good to ask the CDA as well. How does it feel about the fact that we already have prudential supervision for which things are also regulated here, but that they are not respected in practice? There, too, there is a lack of supervision. Does the CDA recognize this? By the way, I have a great deal of faith in the power of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u7	This is also a matter of course. We have the Banking Code and we have said that it should be tightened on this point. We have discussed this before in a debate. This is about how the Supervisory Board deals with this. I believe that we need to ensure that this is the place where we are aware of how to deal with this social experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u8	That's not an answer to my question. The remuneration committees are considered, within the framework of the rules to which the ECB supervises, to take account of the general interest in their decision. But we are confronted time and time again, almost year after year, with a reality that differs from that. Then it is only logical that, as a society that elected politicians, you should put on the table a firmer proposal to ensure that what you agreed on a long time ago actually becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u9	I said in my introduction that it is not unthinkable that you tighten up regulations here and there. The Minister has made a number of proposals which I am quite positive about. The question is, how are you going to do that? Are you going to create a position for politics in the minister's person to decide at some point on the level of that reward? Or are you trying to get that private institution to behave in accordance with the standards and values that apply in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u10	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u11	I think that the Minister's proposal, for example, the clawback clause, is more deeply affecting property relations than the legislative proposal that is now before us. I have a question for you, Mr President, and you insist on the role of the Minister all the time. If, for example, that role were to be filled by De Nederlandsche Bank or the ECB, so if that role were to be filled by someone else, would you look at this bill fundamentally differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u12	The clawback is mentioned in the Minister's letter as the fourth part, which is still the subject of the Minister's investigation. So he comes up with a definitive explanation of how he sees it and what effects it has. In this sense, it is not yet clear that that part will also reach the finish line as a possible solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u13	Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u14	Mr. Chairman. The CDA spokesperson, Mr Ronnes, did not answer my second question. If the role were to be filled differently, not by the minister but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u15	Mr Ronnes has heard the question. He'll be able to answer that in a minute. Would you like to add to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u16	I thought I answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u17	Okay. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u18	The CDA also starts with a rather fundamental objection, namely to what extent the public authorities should intervene in the private sector, especially in this way. The other day I asked the Minister of Finance if he could rule out the need for the government to use tax money again in the future in order to maintain banks in a future crisis. If we can't rule that out now, does the CDA agree with me that the banks and the financial sector seem to be "whatever the proposers indicate"? isn't just a sector like supermarkets and the like, and not just a purely commercial sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u19	In my introduction, I have already indicated that there is a nuance about systemically relevant banks, so we find each other there. It's just, it's about the way you find each other for how you want to regulate that. You can do that in different ways, and that's what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u20	If we take on a number of other sectors that are semi-public, such as health insurers, housing corporations and so on, we have indeed chosen other ways of regulating the rewards at the top. What way does the CDA think about if this isn't it? If the CDA has apparently already made that choice, how are we going to ensure that those salaries and bonuses in the banks are finally dealt with? Because when we look back on the past few years and decades, we see that that doesn't happen, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u21	We are more inclined to take away that perverse incentive, for example by making shares held longer by the person who receives them. Other solutions are more in line with what the Minister proposed in the letter he sent to the Chamber. So again, there are other ways you can try to get that sector under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u22	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u23	If the result comes first, and if the CDA here also says that the salaries and bonuses in that sector should be reduced, and if we find that they are not, when will the time come when the CDA wants to intervene in a different way and not just make a moral appeal? So is the CDA actually saying that the proposers are too early? That it's a good proposal, but maybe we should take a look at it if they still don't do it in a year? Does the CDA agree, so is it just about timing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u24	No, you're trying to frame me that we wouldn't want you to be able to control that properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u25	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u26	Through you, then, Mr. Chairman. Once again, Mr Alkaya is trying to indicate that only that would be the way on which that can be done. And that is absolutely not the case. There are just other alternatives, as I said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u27	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u28	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was triggered by the CDA, because Mr Ronnes talked about the great difference between the lowest scales and the highest scales, and indicated that intervention by the government in companies went quite far. But the CDA does not, I believe, see any problem in intervening and letting people pay below the minimum wage if it invents the Buma jobs. So to what extent does he see that the government is allowed to take that space, but not in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u29	Well, I think that's very different numbers first. But with the rule of mine you're quoting, I was actually just getting started. In my opinion, and this will also be evident later in my text, we see a rather large margin in the proportions within and between companies: there are companies where the top man earns ten times the salary of the average income, while in other places that is sometimes a hundred times the average income. That is a point we should perhaps look at with each other: should we not do something about that relationship? And that is also my next paragraph, which I am going to say. I would like to ask questions about this to the initiators, but also to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u30	But before you do, there is still a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u31	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna be very happy. I suggest that together, CDA and 50PLUS, we look at a standard. I know that the unions think of up to twenty times the difference between the lowest and the highest scales, so maybe we can find each other in a nice initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u32	We'll hear about it. Mr. Ronnes, carry on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u33	I did not hear a question, Mr President, so I shall continue with my speech. My group regards the large differences in remuneration between managers and employees of a company as a major problem for large companies. It is, of course, impossible to explain how drivers can earn ten times more than the average employee in one company and sometimes even a hundred times more in another. Do the initiators share that with me? Do they agree with me that there is something to be done about this, and that this is a much better solution for restoring citizens' confidence in the sector than the bill we are discussing here? This question also applies to the Minister. How does he see this? The second part of the legislative proposal is to adapt the scope of the concept of "fixed remuneration" so that shares and the like can no longer be given as fixed remuneration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u34	On the previous point, I see an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u35	This proposal offers the opportunity to do what you are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u36	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u37	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last weekend's De Financieele Dagblad gave an overview of the distance between the average employees and the listed companies. At ING that was a factor of 25 and that would have been 40 if that increase of last year had continued. This law allows system banks to do something about this in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u38	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u39	I do not quite understand why you are putting that question to the initiators, even though they already have an answer and you have not given me an answer yet how you would like to deal with this not only with the system banks but with all listed companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u40	That is very easy, because what I am concerned about is that a company is a supervisory board, which is also controlled by shareholders, which regulates in such a way that reasonable salaries and rewards are taken into account within the company's set of standards. What you're pointing out is that you put the minister in a position to make the decision or make the decision. And that's not the point. It is precisely our intention to allow the sector itself to act in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u41	I think it's a good thing, maybe we can get together in this. We can give employees and shareholders a stronger position when it comes to monitoring and reducing the pay gap within a listed company. But the essential difference with a system bank is that it is "too big to fail." And then we, as taxpayers, end up setting the bar. There is a great social interest at stake and therefore also reason why you as a society extra regulate how that remuneration development occurs within such a system bank. That is precisely what makes this law possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u42	In which the bill says: we put the minister in a position to make the decision. That in our eyes is an impure mixture of everyone's role. We think you could organize that in a different way. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. Can the initiators respond to the idea that by providing shares to directors, commitment is created which gives drivers the right reason to manage their business sustainably? Of course it is important that the shares are held for years but such rules have been announced by the Minister. In that light, can the initiators reflect on these plans in relation to this part of their legislative proposal? Mr President, I will conclude. The comments of the ING top man in the newspapers in recent days show that we haven't been sitting still since the crisis. We now have a strict bonus policy, and that is right. However, this bill seeks to place fixed salaries in the hands of the Minister, and my group is reluctant to do so. In any case, I am very curious about the answers to our questions. Perhaps the effectiveness and necessity of the legislative proposal can be better demonstrated by the reaction of the proposers. Another little bouncer, if that's all right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya has tabled an amendment on behalf of the SP. The SP is also part of the initiators. I am actually curious to see how the co-subscribers view this amendment in relation to the proposal they have tabled. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u44	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate and congratulate my colleagues Mr Snels, Mr Van Dijck, Mr Leijten, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Azarkan on their proposal for their initiative, on an area where more than ten years after the start of the banking crisis there is still a great deal wrong with the world: the remuneration of officials at systemically relevant banks, where the benefits of risks taken are enjoyed privately and the disadvantages could and can be passed on to society too often and too much. The draft law contains, as its long name says, two proposals in short: the definition of fixed remuneration for directors of system banks is tightened and the minister is given a right of assent. It is clear that the Christian Union has killed a brother of perverse reward incentives. My group is therefore pleased that the previous Minister for Finance, Mr Dijsselbloem, together with the Chamber, has ensured that we in the Netherlands have been given the strictest bonus legislation in the world for banks. My group is pleased that we have managed to maintain this strict legislation, even during the cabinet formation, when under pressure from the threatening Brexit all kinds of lobbies were set in motion, especially not to be out of line with the rest of the EU, because that would cause us to lose jobs. That this now fossil lobby is not a thing of the past, we were able to hear about that again yesterday. Nota bene the man whose bill cannot be seen separately, hit this same anvil. I don't want to look for nails on low water, but I still wonder what to do with a hammer piece like that. And that while ING is barely out of money laundering. Of course, financial top executives too have freedom of expression, but apparently sensitivity and timing have not given every bank manager, apart from the fact that my group does not share this view at all. The Christian Union really represents a different reward culture from that in the Anglo-Saxon banking world. Mr. Chairman. We fully endorse the objectives of this legislative proposal. Confidence in banks must be increased, the financial system must become more stable and perverse incentives in the financial sector must be demolished. At the same time, we do have questions about the proposed tools. If the argument under the equity component measure is careful, I ask the proposers. What exactly does adding the Minister of Finance add? In my group's view, the Council of State is right to point the finger at this point. Why should the Minister, who is responsible with us for setting remuneration rules, sit on the seat of Commissioners and shareholders to assess individual salary increases? What does this proposal contribute to the cultural change that we all want to see in the financial sector? There are still a number of questions to ask. Do the authors not think that the tightening-up proposed by the cabinet for remuneration policy is more effective and well thought out? Think of the retention obligation of fixed remuneration shares for five years, of accountability, of limiting the possibility of derogating from the bonus ceiling for non-collective employees, of directing on clawback, i.e. recovering part of the fixed remuneration in the case of State aid. Mr. Chairman. All the regulation of remuneration at banks, of course, calls again for discussion about the mixing of various functions under one roof with banks, the well-known discussion about the utility function and the commercial function, i.e. the tension between public and commercial interests. The WRR, as mentioned earlier, has not long argued for structural adjustments within our money system, including the possibility of one bank dealing only with payments and savings. How does the Minister look at this outlined future from a reward perspective? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to hearing the comments of the proposers and the Minister on these points. A very thorough and convincing response will be needed to get my group across the line, but that does not mean that I appreciate the fact that the authors are calling for the right anvil: that of restoring confidence in banks by tackling perverse rewards in that sector. But whether they use the best hammers when hitting that anvil, we still have a discussion about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u45	Congratulations for the clear statement. Especially in the first half of it, I totally agree. But let me say a few words about the assessment of the bill, precisely because the Christian Union often also looks at issues from a moral perspective. We have such a beautiful saying in the Netherlands: forcing strange eyes. Isn't it interesting about this approach, that there are also eyes on that reward that are a little further away from the company itself, and from the directors, the supervisor and the supervisory board that are much closer to that? Isn't that a very sensible way of dealing with this issue from an ethical point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u46	Weird eyes do force it. But I do think we should keep the roles clean and clear. We make the rules here. The Cabinet and the Chamber are the legislators. They make sure that those frameworks are there. We have DNB for supervision, but we also have that supervisory board to monitor from within. What has to be done, of course, is that the Commissioners are at a sufficient distance. I would like to think with Mr Van der Lee about how we can bend the culture there so that those are really strange eyes. Indeed, that is still far from satisfactory at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u47	I would like to discuss this further, but I would like to return to the role of the Minister. If that role were to be filled in something else, and you mentioned, for example, that it would already be at the ECB, does that make a difference for the Christian Union when it comes to assessing the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u48	It makes it more interesting, but at the same time you still have to keep those roles clean. An ECB as a regulator of a systemically relevant bank could certainly have an opinion on rewards. Still, the initiators would have to pull us over a bump. But that it should not be political, I am convinced of that. Then there is the question of to what extent the ECB still has political influences or indeed is actually independent. You need to think about that, too. And you may also wonder if the ECB is the strange eyes you need. In short, there are still a lot of hooks and eyes on it. I would still like to think carefully about the different roles that the different parties have. I think you'll only end up doing this with a culture change. And such a cultural change must take place from below.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I will inform the Chamber that a debate has been added before dinner break. That is the debate on the news that the Netherlands has little more to do against the extension of WW exports by Brussels. There will also be a vote. All this also before dinner break. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u50	Mr. Chairman. This bill contains two proposals that address the possibilities of tightening up the current law on remuneration. Firstly, it is a question of tightening up the definition of fixed remuneration, and secondly, it is a duty for systemically relevant banks to submit a proposed determination of the fixed remuneration of a new driver or an increase in the fixed remuneration of a incumbent director first to the Minister of Finance for agreement. In practice, this means that a proposal from the Supervisory Board will go to the Minister of Finance before the proposed determination or increase of the fixed remuneration is submitted to the shareholders' meeting. The Minister shall then inform the bank concerned of the consent granted or not. And if there is agreement, the Minister shall also inform the Lower House in writing. 50PLUS is satisfied with this important tightening of remuneration policy. Extremely high and complex reward packages for companies that are too big to fail undermine the social contract in the Netherlands. We heard the difference even though the gap between the lowest pay scale and the highest derailed completely. We have leaned too long and too much and hoped for self-regulation and social responsibility, but if social responsibility is not given, then you must enforce it. And in the absence of the self-cleaning capacity of the sector, we will have to do so. Today, colleagues also mentioned it, it says in De Telegraaf: "We don't miss anything to bonus hunters." How true is this? And once again, Mr. Hamers, the boss of ING, comes into the publicity about the strict Dutch bonus rules. The frustration about his 50% increase is still very high, I believe. This gentleman doesn't feel the spirit of time at all. Systemically relevant banks are implicit semi-government and directors of these banks are not entrepreneurs but employees and therefore actually semi-officials. And whether they like to hear it or not, that's what they made it into. They make a lot of money if they do their job well. Fortunately, they pay a lot of tax on.... but there must also be hard consequences if they do not do their job properly. Reward packages at these special companies must comply with this requirement, point out. We are therefore very happy with this work and we would like to thank all the initiators very warmly for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u52	Mr. Chairman. Last year this Chamber spoke of the full breadth, well, with the exception of the Forum for Democracy group, Mr Van der Lee already referred to it, her disapproval of ING's wage riot. Social tone deafness at the largest bank in the Netherlands, which was forced to hide under the wings of the Dutch taxpayer a few years earlier. Sometimes it stays with fuss, but this time the cabinet took action. It is to the credit of the proposers that they too have tried not only to leave it in words but to actually convert it into additional measures. It is good that we can now discuss the emergency law, which was tabled a week before the elections last year, one week after the elections. I say that a little faint, but I do appreciate it very much, because I know that there has been a lot of work in it from the authors, and I also think that the willingness expressed by the composition in box K to work together on this is a positive development. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes good things come out of a crisis. And so, after the financial crisis, the necessary measures have been taken to remove perverse incentives from remuneration policies and to reduce risks to taxpayers. We have the strictest bonus law in Europe, we have higher buffers and we have European supervision over the largest banks. The aim, and that is also my goal for this sector, is to create transparent and secure banks that support our economy and society, stand at the heart of society and put their customers first. We're not there yet. The evaluation of that sharpest bonus law also shows that there are still some gaps in it. It is also right that the cabinet has announced additional measures on this basis. We'll discuss it later this year. I come to the proposal of the initiators. Certainly from directors of Dutch system banks, we can expect them to focus less on the wages of their colleagues in America and Singapore and more on the exemplary role they have in their own business. For only by standing on the floor, or on the floor, or by standing for some people, can they regain that confidence. The initiators want to ensure that the minister veto the reward of bankers. I think that the idea that pay decisions take into account social support is a very sympathetic one. But I have considerable hesitation about the specific effect of giving the Minister the right of veto. My first question is: what exactly do the proposers intend to do? They describe the role of the minister as, I quote, 'an arbitrator who has to judge whether the game has been played according to the rules of the game'. Do I really understand the initiators that this is a purely procedural test, not the more advanced form of a marginal review, for example, if the question arises whether the bank has been able to reach a reasonable conclusion? So it is not a full review, with the Minister actually reviewing the decision taken a little bit more? If they actually see it as a purely procedural test, my question is how we ensure that it does not become a tick-off list, after which every final increase in salary will be stamped by the Minister, no matter what he actually thinks of it. Because then I fear that the high expectations generated by the initiators will ultimately not be met, while any more substantive assessment will naturally raise the question of criteria and feasibility. Above that, the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to place this responsibility and competence with the minister, a political figure. That is a question of law and principle, because it is a far-reaching power for the Minister to intervene in an individual private enterprise; even more so, with an individual person and his reward. It is also opposed to the movement to regulate banking supervision more Europeanly. It is not for nothing that there is, as the initiators write, no other democratic country that has arranged this. I'm not saying it's decisive, but it could be a counter-indication. Can the initiators justify their choice again in greater detail, and I see Mr Van der Lee coming to the interrupting microphone in the same way that they might also be able to ask why they did not choose to invest it with the ECB? Yesterday we were there with the Finance Committee, and we saw that the supervision of the largest banks is being exercised right there today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u53	I am glad that Mr Sneller is so alert and therefore makes one of my questions of interruption superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u54	It saves us all time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u55	Yes. I would like to come back to the more fundamental point. What is quite special about the Netherlands is that we have a relatively large financial sector. We have had a period in which we have had to save system banks and have intervened very far-reachingly, even as a society, through the government in the remuneration policy. We still have that system to an important extent. They have that system function role. Surely that justifies a more robust supervision, including of remuneration policies, from society through the Minister of Finance? Does Mr Sneller still want to reflect on that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u56	Much has rightly been done to properly supervise the ECB's system banks. There has been work on more bail-in buffers, as it is called, to ensure that shareholders and bondholders will pay if such a bank is indeed in trouble. We also have, as I have just said, the sharpest bonus law in Europe. I think that is why we think it is important to make it safer. This is mainly due to the large financial sector in the Netherlands. But I do have my hesitations, which I have just listed, to place the right of veto with the Minister. Mr Van der Lee calls it social supervision. I think that's more part of the Banking Code and the question of how to anchor it better. That seems to me to be a very promising way, but that is a bit the socialisation of supervision, while we have here a legislative proposal that is precisely political.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u57	Yeah, but I think there's a difference of opinion here. Fortunately, in a democracy, society chooses politics, which seeks to safeguard its general social interest. I didn't mention history for nothing. We have seen that when it comes to self-regulation and making parts of a listed company responsible to take that role, we cannot really let them take that role in practice. Does Mr Sneller recognize that? Does he also recognise that it is logical that the initiators have looked at a different route as a society to ensure that this social interest is really taken into account in the rewards of system banking directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u58	It's going to be a little philosophical, but we can't say that, if you put it down politically, it's going to regulate social supervision. In my view, it is important to continue to break up society and politics. But I'm going to go into more detail about those Banking Codes. We do not have debates on a number of banks, because that is where things are going relatively well. There are also system banks that have chosen to step off those bonuses. We never discuss the salaries of the CEOs there. I do think there is indeed a positive movement, but I also think it is quite right that we are standing here, because things are not going well everywhere. We must indeed see how this self-regulation can be anchored more firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u60	The Council of State rightly warns of the risk of arbitrariness. It seems to me to be a very difficult task to develop the criterion of "social acceptance" in a general measure of governance. I would like to hear more from the initiators. I'd also like to hear the Minister's views on that. Mr. Chairman. The second part of the proposal deals with variable remuneration. It may contain, as the proposers write, positive or negative incentives. The question is, of course, how do we avoid the negative and encourage the positive? The proposers, the initiators, embrace the idea that shares that need to be held for a long time create the right incentives to point the sustainable interest, the longer-term interest, the banker, the bank and society in the same direction. My question to the initiators is therefore: does the Minister's proposal really not fit much better with the objectives that they themselves have set, and which I share with them, than with their own proposal? My question to the Minister is therefore: what about his legislation on this issue? Mr President, concluding. I commend the initiators for their perseverance, because they have passed this law, which began as an emergency law. In doing so, they make an important contribution to this important discussion. I look forward to their answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u61	Thank you. I see Mr Mulder standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u62	D66 now raises the question of whether the Minister's proposal is more in line with the objectives, but that question can of course also be reversed. What would D66 have against the proposal to tighten up the definition of "fixed remuneration"? What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u63	Precisely by the initiators, it is argued that shares that need to be held for a longer period can, on the contrary, make the longer-term perspective more important in the trade-offs. I think that's something we should want. If you're gonna get that out of the retainer, you're gonna give that instrument out of your hands, and that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u64	That's right. That is, in itself, a correct representation. But what would be against giving that out of your hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u65	Then you would make it impossible for a rewarding instrument to bring the goals that we can achieve here in a broad sense. That's undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u66	That's not entirely correct. Sorry, Mr. President, I should have sharpened that in the second part of my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u67	No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u68	In fact, the Minister's proposal also comes because there are now ways of circumventing that law. There's holes in it. That is why the Minister also wants to intervene, and that is why you also say: we need to regulate a number of matters. If you're going to regulate that, it's about reducing the incentives. Then what's the problem with making sure that bonus component is changed a little tighter? This does not depend on the fact that the Minister's proposal can also be attractive. What is against embracing the proposal of this initiative law? What would D66 have against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u69	I do not know whether Mr Mulder and I have read the same initiative law, but I do not think that it says 'a little tighter'. It says 'can' no longer', and that goes too far for me, especially if you can see it correctly as a way to safeguard the long-term interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u70	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks and compliments to the initiators for this initiative law. It is, of course, an important subject. We have often talked about this in this Chamber. It is good that there is now a concrete proposal that we can also talk about more specifically. Mr. Chairman. If commercial banks are threatening to fall, the government is helping to keep them up with taxpayers' money. After all, the financial sector plays a useful role in our modern society, as the authors of this initiative law also point out. So many banks cannot go bankrupt today, and that is why it is logical that we do not treat them as purely commercial institutions. And yet we see that society is finding it difficult to get a grip on this curious sector. A sector where public interests and commercial profit drives like a plate of spaghetti run right through each other. Among other things, the rewards often return to our agenda. If politics is not constantly on guard, you will see that bank salaries and bonuses are rising, that shareholders are demanding enormous returns and that this puts public interest at risk. If politics is not constantly on its guard, bankers will have the pleasure again and we, as a society, can count on us getting the burden back when things go wrong. Mr. Chairman. Because Ralph Hamers is again pleading for more flexible bonus rules, so again the demands are being made now that things are getting better in the sector, but certainly also because the Finance Minister, when I asked him in a debate the other day, still cannot rule out the need for taxpayers to save the banks again with tax money in a subsequent crisis, this initiative law is only logical. A logical step in the right direction. As long as commercial banks cannot go bankrupt, they are a kind of semi-public institution as far as the SP is concerned, some other parties have already indicated this and have to act responsibly as such, including when it comes to rewards. This law is therefore a logical step in the right direction in the current situation. That's why my party's name is underneath. However, I still have a number of questions and comments. First of all. The law introduces a duty for systemically relevant banks to submit the fixed remuneration of new directors or an increase in the fixed remuneration of incumbent directors to the Minister of Finance for agreement. The initiators are therefore limited to the five systemically relevant banks that we know in the Netherlands and that have been appointed by the supervisor. Why, I ask the proposers. Is it not true that all banks operate in a sector that can implicitly count on the help of the taxpayer as soon as it goes wrong? They therefore also benefit from state aid, albeit in an indirect way. Would it not therefore be logical for this law to apply to smaller banks? Lehman Brothers was also a relatively small bank, but their bankruptcy has had quite big consequences. Other small banks in the Netherlands have also received State aid in the form of guarantees, e.g. NIBC, which is not a systemically relevant bank. Secondly, as far as they are concerned, I ask the authors whether this law will be sufficient to get a grip on the reward. If the financial sector is currently very similar to a semi-public sector, should we not consider additional instruments to influence the remuneration of bankers and reduce the SP itself, as in the Top Income Standards Act? This law already applies to other commercial institutions with a public role, such as health insurers. Then why not for the banks, too? Finally, it is becoming increasingly clear that not only the high bonuses of bankers are a problem for banks, but also the high return requirements of shareholders. Of course, it is a problem when a top banker suddenly gets a million extra salary, but that is still in stark contrast to the billions of dividends that banks spend on their shareholders every year. Money they have earned because they can invest virtually free of charge on our savings. So the only real solution seems to be more diversity in the sector and more real competition for these commercial banks, for example in the form of a secure public bank, something that the Christian Union has just cited. A public bank where our savings are really safe and do not prevent bonuses and usury profits. Only such a secure public bank can help to slowly restore people's confidence in this sector. Only such a safe public bank will force commercial bankers to discipline and to behave responsibly. Until that time, control over commercial banks remains essential and this law is therefore, I repeat, a logical step in the right direction. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking and congratulating the initiators once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u72	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I shall then give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u73	The collapse of Lehman Brothers was the beginning of an unprecedented crisis. Not only in America, there were problems worldwide. Europe was in recession and in the Netherlands ABN AMRO, ING, SNS and AEGON had to be saved with billions of euros, all taxpayers' money. Mr President, never again. It is now quite clear that the financial sector is not a normal sector. That alone justifies a controlled remuneration policy without perverse financial incentives. This initiative proposal follows on from the remuneration policy law on financial enterprises. This law already restricts excessive variable remuneration. However, in recent years, there have been still a number of ways of circumventing this law. Some of these gaps in the current law we are going to close with this initiative law today. Mr. Chairman. This initiative law is more than reasonable and, in fact, does nothing but strengthen the spirit of the 2015 proposal. This proposal also sends a clear signal to the sector. That's very necessary, given the messages from the last few days. ING-topman Hammers wants to extend the current bonus rules. This man has really learned nothing from last year's outrage. What a brutality. Without state aid, without taxpayers' money, this man would have been unemployed and he would just be sitting at home in the bank. I could mention 775 million reasons why this guy shouldn't get a bonus, big or small. What does the Minister think of Mr. Hammers' statements for more bonuses, more salary and more Wolf of Wall Street? If he does not do so, I ask you, Mr President, to tell the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The insurers are also happy to participate in the grabbing. Millions of salaries and bonuses are apparently the most normal thing in the world. The salary of the top man of the NN Group increased by 15% to almost 2 million euros and AEGON gives the boss no less than 1 million on top of his fixed salary of 1.3 million. It's too bizarre for words. How is it possible that a sector that has so failed and caused so much misery is doing all this? Are those top guys really worth that money? Will we include the usury policy affair in their assessment, the derivative drama for SMEs or the Libor fraud? Hello, Rabobank. Have they learned anything at all, the PVV wonders. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. Greed was the fundamental cause of the credit crisis and also of the subsequent broad economic crisis. That greed, it's human and it can't be eliminated. However, it is possible to improve supervision and to set better rules. Today, we are making a number of rules that will contribute to a better financial sector, precisely in order to prevent the world, that we, that the citizens, are once again the victims of grabbed bankers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I shall now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u75	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to congratulate the initiators, although I do not think it is such a great proposal so far. But that follows immediately in my speech. The Brexit is daily in the news. I see something in box "K." Isn't that what you were expecting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u76	I also see confusion, but I suggest you move on. Maybe it'll change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u77	I'll make it clear first. Shall we? What you're actually seeing with that Brexit is that there's a complete exodus coming in from London. The banking sector moved to Dublin, Luxembourg, Paris and Frankfurt. Amsterdam is in place five in terms of number of British relocations. Many people are convinced that it could have been even higher if the Netherlands had a less strict bonus policy. But, yeah, should we be grieving when a large part of those bankers avoid our country? Especially if it's about money, money and more money. The other side is that I find it too easy to turn every banker away as a grabber, because it just isn't. The banking sector has a very important role to play in the economy. I prefer to see self-regulation in the sector and, fortunately, there is. We could read that today in De Telegraaf, with statements by Mr Wijffels. On top of that, the Netherlands already has a very strict remuneration policy. Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today has an origin in the case-ING. By way of motion, the SGP opposed the proposed salary increase of more than 50% of the chairman of the board and the SGP still stands for that. I think it is very good that we are having a social debate on remuneration policy, and I really do not understand why others have given it to the chairman of ING who is not recommending the draft bill before us. In my view, such a statement is more counterproductive. The SGP is critical of the exorbitant salaries, but also of the bill before it. We wonder whether this is the right route to counter the excesses in the financial sector. We therefore share the two criticisms made by the Council of State. One. In what way can it be justified for the Minister of Finance to give his consent? Two. Why do parts of the fixed remuneration with a variable value are prohibited? Mandatory authorisation by the Minister of Finance constitutes a serious breach of the banks' property rights. In addition, the SGP is curious how the initiators see the role of the Minister of Finance. That is really very essential for us. What possible influence does the political colour of the minister have on granting permission or not? I imagine a VVD minister would look at that differently than a SP minister. I'd like to hear more about that. The second point is that the fixed rewards sometimes have a variable value in part. Why should there be perverse incentives from stock packages that cannot be sold for a certain period of time? Which studies do the initiators base themselves on? The Council of State points out that such stock packages can provide an incentive to keep the long-term perspective in mind. The SGP is simply very curious about the reaction of the initiators. So far, I have started with that. We do not think that the justification for the proposed intervention is sufficient, but we are happy to be convinced by the initiators as they sit here of the usefulness and necessity of the proposal. So as far as we're concerned, the playing field is still open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u78	Thank you. You can stand still for a while, because you have an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would particularly like to take this opportunity to join Mr Stoffer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u80	That's good for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u81	... at the point where he quotes Herman Wijffels, who rightly and rightly criticized the messages that came into the world yesterday. Mr Wijffels has an impressive record, but he no longer plays any role in the financial sector. In this sense, therefore, it is more of a social criticism than a form of self-regulation. Does Mr Stoffer share that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u82	In itself, but it's someone who comes from that sector and is still intertwined with it. Well, I like the sound of someone like that. That sound fits, I think, at the bank he's from. I share that with you, but I still like the sound coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u83	I'm very happy about that. But the only thing I would like to say to Mr Stoffer is that we also know this phenomenon in politics: former prime ministers who, after their premiership, think differently about a number of issues than when they had that responsibility. That is what we see in the financial sector. Perhaps that can still play a role in the assessment of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u84	Mr. Van der Lee has a point there. But you can also see it sometimes with former US presidents: once they are done, they start to think very differently about the climate, for example. In that respect, I think you should see it a little broad and I also tell Mr. Van der Lee that he might have to think about it a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk from the PvdA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u86	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the authors of this beautiful law. I also wish the Minister of Finance much strength in replying later. We will not do that today, because this is only the first term of office. When reading this initiative law, I had to think of an entrepreneur in the Haarlem area, who I know well. This is an entrepreneur with a small SME company in IT. They supply IT for building machines. But that's not all they do, because they're in the Haarlem area in the middle of society and they have five men of staff. One of them is someone with a disability. They are active in the association life and they also ensure that the profits they make now are distributed to all employees. That's not how this entrepreneur stands on his own. There are thousands of SME entrepreneurs in the Netherlands who are in the middle of society in this way, who do not have the predicate social entrepreneurship, but feel the social responsibility. You do not have to dedicate them, because they feel, because they are connected with the municipalities, society and the problems, knowing very well what is going on. So different it is in the head and act of top executives in the financial sector. We've seen that since 2008. Just because of the lake, more in those heads, because of the greed that Mr Mulder described, we went through this economic crisis with each other. We spent that money together. Then you would think: something should change in the head and act of those top entrepreneurs in the financial institutions. That's what I was hoping for, and that's what you'd expect. But no, I'm afraid that won't happen. Because Mr. Hamers is so different from that SME entrepreneur in Haarlem, who knows exactly what's going on in society. I cannot accept that Mr Hammers, after a year ago's great fuss about the rewards and the money-laundering affair of 800 million, one year later has the story that, because of the extremely strict regulations that we rightly have here, the strictest in Europe, and that is also urgently needed, England's greed cannot be brought to the Netherlands. What's going on in that head? That's really disappointing. We have also seen this at ABN AMRO, where several directors have left through private equity with millions. This is still happening in this very important financial institution, which you would expect to lead the way in social entrepreneurship and social responsibility, and that it knows that it is not just about making money in the Netherlands, but also about contributing to society and participating in all kinds of ways. That starts with the top guys. That is why I am very pleased with this initiative from the Chamber in which a kind of emergency stop is being created. Unfortunately, we cannot change the head and actions of Mr Hammers and his colleagues. However, we must realise that they do have this social function and that we must put that emergency stop in the hands of the Minister, simply as an emergency measure. That is why I hope for the support of the SGP and the coalition. So my compliments on the proposal. It is still very much needed, precisely because of the social responsibility these large system banks have. The summit should start with it; it should carry it out and should feel it. I have two questions for the proposers. Why was the Minister of Finance chosen as the one who holds the emergency stop? Has there been any thought, for example, of some kind of external committee of socialists, who could do the same? That's what I'm curious about. Secondly, we see that in the financial sector, there is a very creative way of dealing with all kinds of types and sizes of remuneration, which means that they are just getting back under legislation. Does this initiative legislation allow for new forms of excessive remuneration, which are not specifically prohibited by legislation? Is this law going to give you the room to sort that out with each other quickly? Finally, two questions to the Minister. What does the Minister think of the statements made yesterday by Mr Hammers? And when can we expect that legislation from the Minister? Because he indicates that he wants to tackle the sector in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u88	Mr. Chairman. The VVD understands like no other that a good banking system is indispensable for our economy. But that only works if banks are of unspoken behavior, and they are not banks. You're not of unspoken behavior when you keep breaking the news with millions of fines for money laundering, when you're in the news with incomprehensible financial products or with crazy salary increases. It is right that Dutch people are angry about that, at least I am. I would have liked to close the chapter after last year and focus on useful things. I am referring to the thousands of people working at bank offices at perfectly normal salaries, to their customers who are shy of a mortgage or an SME loan and to sustainability, for which we need these banks very badly. But unfortunately, ING's top man couldn't resist throwing another stone in the pond this week with comments on the bonus policy. I'd like to give him unsolicited communication advice. If I were him, I wouldn't say anything about it for a while after last year's pay riot. Just get your own house in order first and then meddle in what politics should think of this. Mr. Chairman. I therefore understand the sentiment behind the bill that we are discussing today. I would also like to express my appreciation for the efforts made by the initiators. What is now before us is very concise and above all regulates that the Minister of Finance must agree to the remuneration package of every bank manager in the Netherlands. Such consent must be refused, inter alia, if the reward cannot count on public support. That's where it starts to wring. The VVD doesn't think we're going the right way. The Council of State agrees with the VVD. He is strongly critical of the proposal. It states that the proposal is not a solution to the problem, that there is no justification for the consent requirement and that the powers of shareholders and supervisory directors are crossed, and even those of the central bank within the stability monitoring system. I would ask the authors to respond to these points. Then I have a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u89	I see an interruption by Mr Van der Lee on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u90	However, a question on the last point. Has Mr Van der Linde also read Mr Draghi's letter? Mr Van der Linde makes the point of crossing the role of the ECB, but the ECB does not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u91	Yes, I have read it and I hope that the proposers will let their light shine on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u92	But doesn't that letter convince Mr. Van der Linde? The boss of the ECB writes it, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u93	No. I repeat what the Council of State says, and I ask the authors to respond. That is not my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u94	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u95	But I do have some other questions. There is now a hook for lower regulation to provide some legal certainty. I would like to ask the authors: how does this lower regulation, this general measure of governance, look concrete? Do they have a taste of that and can we get it for treatment? Another point: this bill would make fixed remuneration in the banking sector a very different concept than in other sectors. How are we supposed to explain that? What does that mean in practice? The fixed remuneration is then defined differently from any other sector. Is that convenient? Does that lead to trouble? That is perhaps also a question we should ask the Minister. Then one last question. The initiators referred to the implementation costs as negligible, but could not support them. They had promised to obtain more information on this before the plenary session. I'd like to hear back at that point. With what lies ahead, the VVD does not believe in our minds that we are going to solve the problems. This isn't enough. This proposal does exactly what we do not want. It introduces randomness. The Minister of Finance should then have an opinion on the alleged social acceptance of a remuneration package, which is, of course, subject to scrutiny by the House of Representatives. In the absence of objective standards, that decision is based on the headline of that morning. This applies only to banks, not to insurers and not to the rest of society. That sounds weird to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u96	I see an interruption by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u97	I got a little excited because the VVD says: actually it's not enough; I'd like to do more. I'd love to hear what else the VVD would like to do. 'Cause maybe we can go a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u98	I can do two things now. I can either scramble my text or I can finish my text. Then I'll be done in a minute, and then Mrs Van Brenk will be able to respond again. So how you want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u99	If you'll just answer me, it's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u100	Then I propose that Mr Van der Linde continue his speech and that there can always be an interruption by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u101	Yes. First of all. I would like companies to have their own social antenna on and constantly probe in the outside world or what they do does not lead to hassle. First of all, we have the supervisory board, of course, and before that we have the shareholders' meeting. That's what they're about. But that social antenna shouldn't just be there, it should be in an entire company, including the CEOs, I'll just say for a moment. A bank must have been able to stand up to feelers all the time. If, and here is the answer to Mrs Van Brenk's question, we want to prevent excesses, perhaps that is what the VVD wants most of everyone to do, then there are far better solutions for that. One. Let's finally make it easy for customers to leave a bank, to switch. Now let's get rid of the name of the bank, which is so conveniently encrypted in that IBAN number, and we can switch from bank to bank in a year or so. I would very much like the Minister to respond to that, because then we can table a motion in the second term and then we are going to vote for it in the Chamber for the change. Then we're gonna take care of this. Two. Let's just give the owners of the bank a little more grip on the remuneration policy. A bill that is precisely about that will be dealt with tomorrow. As far as we are concerned, we are going to take another step. Three. Take on abuses and perverse stimuli. Last year, my group chairman, Mr Klaas Dijkhoff, proposed tightening up the clawback. "Clawback" is a hard English word, but it just means "gravel back." If things go wrong, we get the money back and then we bankers who have failed can just address them personally. We still think that is a good idea. It's fair and good to explain. I ask the Minister, who has promised to work this out, to tell us what is going on. Mr. Chairman. Banks have a strong problem: they often do not seem to feel what is alive and what is happening in society. That is regrettable, but there are sensible and less sensible ways to adjust their moral compass. Unfortunately, with what I know now, I do not think this bill is the right way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u102	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Oh, there's another interruption by Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u103	I thought I'd wait until the end. Mr Van der Linde actually raises a problem of the scope of the proposal. He says: this is going to apply to systemically relevant banks, but not to insurers and other sectors; that is crazy. Does Mr Van der Linde think that the high bonuses, the high salaries and the large pay gap, for example, are also problematic for insurers and that they should be dealt with in a certain way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u104	No, what I hate is that we are now going to take all kinds of things from their place for one sector. I do not see the logic of that. I also think that this bill is a state-run thing. That's mostly in the point of randomness. We're used to making laws and rules that give people security. What you could now get is that companies, in all conscience, are putting down a reward proposal, that everyone in the company, including the employees, agrees with it, and that Minister Snels could say in the next period: I do not see the public support. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u105	He missed it for a while, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u106	Yeah, the future minister doesn't realize it's about him right now, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u107	That seems to be a habit in trade-K, so in that sense it is already well integrated. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u108	I ask this question for the following reason. Mr Van der Linde began his speech by saying that he also finds it problematic that ING's CEO is making this kind of statement again, that the bonus rules are too strict and so on. Then the average viewer could conclude: oh, the VVD finds the high salaries and the bonuses also a problem. Mr Van der Linde himself points out that these high salaries and bonuses are a problem in the banking sector. Then we can discuss how to deal with it, but I would specifically ask Mr Van der Linde if he thinks that the same problem is also problematic in the insurance sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u109	My problem isn't so much about a salary. What happened at ING last year was not good for a number of reasons. It was very simple. The Netherlands had to tighten the belt for ten years. When things get better with the Netherlands, a top banker is first in line to add his own package. That was outraged. I didn't think that was right. We have, of course, said something about that. That helped, by the way. Occasionally, it also helps to give your opinion as a political opinion without immediately coming up with laws and rules. I thought that was a relief. That was really good. I think it is too arbitrary to say now 'we are going to do that for banks', while insurers are holding on to such a huge systemic risk. I didn't understand that logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u110	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u111	Finally. In my opinion, ING has never really said that the increase in wages is off the table either. Should it ever come to the table, it is really undesirable and then it can be removed as soon as possible. I think we can conclude that here. Secondly, I note that the pay gap among insurers is therefore also problematic, because insurers have also been kept up with tax money. The other day, I think last weekend, we saw that the pay gap at AEGON is one of the largest. Let us all continue to look for ways to deal with these exorbitant salaries and bonuses with insurers. What the VVD is saying about this, I actually find it encouraging.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u112	Moreover, I still believe, in response to this, that the decency to establish moderate rewards should first come from the company itself. We were perhaps the most angry that this decency was totally absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u113	Mr Van der Linde spoke of arbitrariness in the scope of the bill. Is he prepared to extend the scope of the bill so that it applies not only to the system banks, but also to other banks and insurers, which he is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u114	No, because I just indicated that I think it's constitutionally raving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u115	I have to conclude that this shows that there are constant arguments for not wanting to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u116	If you look at recent years, you will see that we have the strictest bonus legislation in Europe. That's one. Two. We have made sure that taxpayers are spared if we have to save banks again. The dirt is now really with the shareholders and, secondly, with the bondholders. Three. Last year, my group chairman made proposals about what you could do. You cannot blame me for this, because we have been here in the arena, have participated and have come up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u117	Thank you. You have come to the end of your speech. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing Mr Snels' own-initiative proposal and six other Members of Parliament. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors on this bill. The reason for this proposal is the absurd salary increase that ING director Ralph Hamers wanted to give himself in spring 2018. According to him and according to Jeroen van der Veer, EUR 2 million from ING's supervisory board was not enough. No, it had to be and it was going to be 3 million euros. Mr. Hamers played Champions League and was paid out according to the standards of the Jupiter League. So 50% had to be added at a time when the purchasing power of the average Dutchman only increased by about half a percent per year. ING: intensive cross-standard gripping. The top of the ING bank became known as the hard-hitting Dutch. Under great political and social pressure, the salary proposal was later withdrawn. Now the same Mr. Hammers from the same ING bank comes up with the bizarre statement that the bonus policy in the Netherlands is too strict and that therefore certain financial jobs do not come to the Netherlands after the Brexit. This gentleman doesn't have a plate for his head, but half the Biesbosch. The banking sector proves to be very hard learners over and over again. Therefore, supervision of banks needs to be strengthened. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the DENK Group will therefore wholeheartedly support this proposal. Wrong financial incentives lead to wrong actions, wrong policies, wrong financial products, the spread of wrong risks and wrong debt positions. This ultimately undermines the stability and integrity of the entire financial system. Any proposal that restricts these perverse incentives can count on the warm support of the DENK Group. Large capital in the financial sector collapsed the world in 2008 into the worst economic crisis after the Second World War. This bill is necessary because this sector has proven itself to be a hard learner. Banks and the financial sector have been under discussion for years. DENK is critical of the functioning of the banks and the financial sector. Too often things have gone wrong in the past. Mr. Chairman. This has been going on for a long time. In the 1980s and 1990s there were already so-called junk bonds: worthless bonds that were sold with all kinds of sales tricks. Around the turn of the century there were the known accounting frauds at Enron, at Xerox, at WorldCom, at World Online, at Ahold, at Parmalat. Later we had the share lease affair with Legio Lease and Dexia Bank, in which people invested with borrowed money without knowing. Even later, we had the very extensive usury policy affair, in which banks and insurers sold financial products with very high hidden costs. Millions of them have been sold. Then there was the DSB affair, in which people with temporary decoy interest rates were tempted to take a lot of credit and buy-out policies, which eventually caused them to suffer from unaffordable debts. Research after research showed that advice from financial advisors only brought the consumer out of the rain. The advisors, including those of the banks, mainly advised products that paid themselves the most commission, putting the consumer's interest aside. It was "self-interest first" and "the higher the profit, the better." In retrospect, it is inconceivable that these so-called bounty hunts could last until 2013, when the ban on the commissioning of a number of products finally came into force. Mr. Chairman. The 2008 credit crisis has already been referred to a few times today by profit maximization and perverse incentives in banks, wrongly provided mortgages and incorrect financial constructions. The financial sector crisis eventually led to a global economic recession of unprecedented magnitude at macro level. But at micro level, many personal dramas had preceded it, especially in people who were wrongly advised about financial products. Some lost their homes because of a mortgage that should never have been granted. Others lost their money because they had invested without knowing it in structured packages of these toxic mortgages. The crisis in the financial sector eventually shifted to the real sector, which ultimately affected billions of people. The central point between financial instability on the one hand and the general economic crisis on the other hand turned out to be the bankruptcy of the Lehman Brothers bank on 15 September 2008. Within a few weeks of that black Monday, all the economies of the world sank into a deep recession. For the irresponsible behavior of greedy bankers, countless people eventually had to pay the bill. In short, it is not surprising that many people no longer have confidence in the financial sector. The customer interest is still not central, as shown by TV programmes such as Radar and Kassa. Examples are the interest rate derivatives dossier, the lack of credit that SMEs still suffer from, and the fact that banks do not want to help their own customers with lower mortgage rates. The consumer must always ask for this and is systematically opposed. In 2009, a code of conduct was introduced with the core of "the customer central'. That customer had to be at the heart of things at last. But this still doesn't seem to be between the ears of many bankers. The latest version of this Code of Conduct started on 1 January 2015. I would like to hear from the Minister whether and when there will be a third, improved version of the Banking Code. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, this should become a code of conduct which not only lingers in the boardroom, but also penetrates the workplace. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde of the VVD referred to the clawback. Why are banks still resisting this? It is a power of the Minister of Finance to recover part of the fixed remuneration if the State has to save a bank as a result of that bank's mismanagement. The banking lobby doesn't want this. This testifies once again to the hard learning of the sector. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the diversity of the banking landscape. Can the Minister examine the possibilities of transforming the Volksbank and ABN AMRO into sustainable public banks offering basic payment services? The WRR, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, also advised this in January. I'd like a response from the petitioners and the minister. Mr. Chairman. To conclude: as far as the DENK group is concerned, this is a fine bill, which helps to tackle the problems. I wish all six petitioners success with the defense here in the Chamber and hopefully later in the Upper Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-17.u120	The response by the initiators and by the minister, who is here as an advisor, will be organised at a later date, also in consultation with the initiators. I thank the people in trade-k. I would also, of course, like to thank the spokesmen, the staff and the listeners.
