ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u1	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One culture is better than the other, although it is not easy to determine why. Today is a measure that we can use. For the argument can be defended that the quality of a civilization can be measured by the way it takes care of its elders. Care for the elderly is at the heart of being human. Animals also take care of their young, but only man takes care of his parents. This human instinct has become the foundation of the welfare state in the Netherlands, of the government-controlled solidarity between the strong and the weak. In the Netherlands, financial care for older citizens is built on three pillars. I shall address all three of them today, although we are discussing them today, and the government has asked us to do so as a matter of urgency, only a proposal to change the first pillar for the third time in a few years, namely the date on which the Dutch can invoke the first pillar: the General Old Age Law. This AOW, introduced in 1956, was the first compulsory contribution insurance for all Dutch people and thus the first genuine public insurance. And rightly the first, because a human being is at great risk. Characteristic of a civilized society is that we support people who are victims of misfortune through evil opportunities. It may then be damage to property or damage to the body due to accident or illness, or it may no longer be able to take care of yourself. Some people are unlucky in their lives, and as a society, we help those people. Now there are two setbacks that will affect us all, namely old age and death. The latter is beyond our reach, but since the earliest times in world history societies have taken care of their elders. Before the 20th century this happened especially within families, but after 1900 this was not possible anymore. Due to the movements of the 20th century, especially through the Second World War, people could hardly take care of their own elderly parents. There was a task for the government and the government has taken on this task well. The creation of the AOW was a social event of the first order. As the then chairman of the Lower House in 1956 commented on the adoption of the law: "The unfortunate combination of old and poor will disappear." And so it is done. The Group of the Forum for Democracy thinks it can say that the AOW is one of the most beautiful laws ever introduced in the Netherlands. The contribution levy embodies solidarity between rich and poor because higher incomes paid more premium, while the benefit is equal for all. The AOW is a bottom pension for all the elderly. The AOW is thus the cornerstone of our social system, the first stone of a building that has since been pushed out and is overgrown with so many schemes, benefits and subsidies that it is about to collapse. This means that welfare agencies are constantly getting negative news because they are wrongly making payments to Poland, Bulgaria, Romanians, people with real estate in Turkey or Morocco, or to criminals in prison. This wild growth requires intervention, not the AOW. However, since 2012, the government has made the mistake of torturing the foundation of our social system rather than preventing it from growing. The successive Cabinets-Rutte sawed at the roots instead of cutting the foothills. Mr. Chairman. This Chamber, by its very nature, has a more long-term perspective, and from this point of view, the Forum for Democracy Group says to the government: we need to conserve our social heritage, the most important of which is the AOW. We shouldn't touch that. I would like to give some examples to outline this view in bold terms. The government does not have its priorities in order if it spends billions on subsidies for climate policy, which have no impact on the climate, and at the same time says that we need to cut back on the financial basis for providing citizens in their old age, because citizens are getting older, so let them work longer. The technocrat may see two separate files, but they're not. The citizen sees the government's policy as a whole and sees that whoever buys a plug car has to pay an average of €5.600 a year less for his tax income, while at the same time older people have to work longer because the AOW would be priceless. In a country where the government focuses on files instead of reality, every Tesla you see driving on the street comes at least one elderly person. How many older people have to work longer for the construction of one windmill? The citizen also does not understand that immigrants can make a heavy call for assistance while Dutch elderly people have to work longer because, I quote the explanatory statement: 'old people cannot be missed in the labour market'. Today another bill is on the table to adapt the AOW, the third in a short time. The previous Rutte/Asscher cabinet decided in 2012 to let go of 65 years as a retirement age and increase that age in steps to cut back, because the elderly became too expensive. Three years later, in 2015, VVD and PvdA decided in the second Rutte cabinet to accelerate that increase in the AOW age. Why? It was considered that the AOW was still too expensive despite the previous intervention. And today is the proposal of the Rutte III cabinet, which the PvdA does not participate in, to reduce that step-by-step increase again. Mr. Chairman. It is not the way to regain the confidence of the citizen in politics that is constantly interfering with the cornerstone of our social system. An AOW age should be fixed. The Forum for Democracy has therefore tabled a motion in the Lower House to fix the age of AOW at 66 years. However, no majority was found for this. The reason we are talking today about less rapid steps in raising the age of AOW is not that the government has suddenly come to new insights on how expensive an old age provision may be, but that it is the result of discussions between the government and the social partners on the so-called agreement in principle on the pension system. The AOW, the first pillar of old age, the first and most beautiful public insurance, has, if I understand it correctly, been used by the government as change, change to convince social partners to address the shortcomings in compulsory collective pensions managed by social partners, the so-called second pillar. That is why this second pillar cannot be ignored today. This second pillar of collective pensions is based on much less fine legislation than the AOW. The second pillar also obliges the employed citizen to participate, but leaves the implementation of the scheme to employers' and workers' organisations which do not necessarily have the public interest as a guide. These pensions have therefore been cut several times. That's sneaky. First, by reducing the basic wage from final wage to middle wage, a very big step. Next, in addition to the familiar concept of "retirement age," the sector introduced the ugly word "retirement age." Instead of 65 years of age, many people receive only at 68 years' pension. On top of that, pension funds have not compensated for the currency depreciation for the past ten years, and that saves even if it is not immediately apparent that our elderly people already have more than 10% purchasing power and all workers will soon be too. Mr. Chairman. All these discounts were not clearly visible to most people, but soon all these years of malpractice will no longer be obscured. The Netherlands Bank indicates that the largest pension funds are likely to have to reduce their cash payments next year. This will be less large amounts than previous adjustments, but this latter reduction will become generally visible. Everyone will know next year that the social partners will not deliver on their promises. However, we often hear, too often, that the Dutch pension system is the best in the world. And maybe it is, but from another world, not this one. The second pillar of our old age provision, which is based on capital formation, is like a very specialised animal, which can only survive in a very specific habitat. The Dutch pension system can only survive in a world where everyone remains with the same boss for at least 40 years and where capital market interest rates are always above 4%. That's not the world we live in. In our real world, those two conditions are not met. For 40 years the same boss has not worked for a long time, but the social partners closed their eyes for years and maintained the average premium. This makes it possible for young people and people who change jobs to subsidise older people who stay longer with one boss. And a capital market rate of 4% or higher has not existed since 2012, when Mr Draghi of the European Central Bank, because after Greece, other countries also threatened to go down, decided to do everything to save the euro. This meant that interest rates had to be reduced to zero to ensure that countries such as Italy and France could continue to pay their public debt. The European Central Bank is not on earth to help Dutch pension savers, on the contrary, the ECB is there to help pottering governments, which is not a swear word, they are just pottering governments in countries without pension systems. That brings us to the euro. Maintaining the euro destroys the second pillar of the Dutch pension system. We often hear about the benefits of the euro, such as we no longer have to change money when we go on holiday, as if people only pay with cash. We should hear more about the after-parts of the euro, including a lower pension. The euro ensures that the older Dutchman has less money to go on holiday. I therefore agree with former Finance Minister Hans Hoogervorst, who said last month: "It is remarkable how patiently this problem is accepted by Dutch politics." That's right, it's remarkable. The agreement in principle on the second pillar of the pension system does not mention an approach to this root cause: the euro. If we are talking about issues that are wrongly not addressed in the agreement in principle, then there is also the governance of pension funds, the way in which pension funds are managed. I quote from De Nederlandsche Bank's bulletin of 3 June, entitled De De Nederlandsche Bank's deficit with pension funds. It says: "How is it that members of one fund receive a full indexation of their pensions, while members of the other fund have to fear discounts? This is an important part of the choices made by pension funds in their investments and contributions." In other words: Dutch citizen, your pension depends on how good the board of your pension fund is. Whether these people raise enough premium and whether they invest your money safely and wisely. But who's gonna watch if they're really doing that right? The contestant himself has nothing to say. Trade unions and employers determine what happens to pension funds. A citizen is free to choose his own doctor in the Netherlands, but he is not allowed to choose which pension fund he resides with. That's as arranged as the closet system in India. If you work at the bakery, you must join the pension fund for the bakers. If you work as a butcher, you must participate in the Pension Fund for the Butchers Company. That's not from these days. In particular, I find it strange that a minister of D66 would not want to change anything about this, since that party is averse to corporateism. However, the revision of the pension system does address the need to avoid the generation of happiness and unlucky generations. But what a worker has to spend in his old age depends on the quality of the directors of his occupational pension fund. There's no mention of that. But if you are with a pension fund whose management has increased the premiums in good time and covered the risks of interest rate reduction, you will be with a well-managed fund and you will be lucky. If you are with a fund that is poorly managed, the level of coverage is below 100%, and that's bad luck for you. You have to keep paying. Only in cases of extreme failure does the obligation to participate lapse. If I am correct, butchers' pensions have been indexed in recent years, but not those of bakers. To those who call this "the best pension system in the world," I keep saying: not from this world, but from another world. The Group of the Forum for Democracy regards it as a serious omission in the agreement in principle on pensions that the quality of pension fund governance is explicitly disregarded, and calls on the Minister to include pension fund governance in the discussions on an agreement aimed at making the pension system sustainable in the long term. We can't do that without better governance. The question needs to be asked whether the social partners can continue to be responsible for the second pillar of the Dutch old age provision system. We have thus discussed the first two pillars of the old age provision. Then we come to the third pillar. That is an individual pillar. People can also save for their old age. In my youth, when the AOW age was introduced, savings were encouraged as a virtue of government, even in children. With a product like the Silver Fleet Savings Account, the Rijkspostspoorbank already offered the possibility to set aside the allowance for later. The opposite is the current policy: the government has been punishing those who are wise enough to save themselves since the year 2000. Then Minister of Finance Zalm and his Secretary of State supposedly, VVD and PvdA introduced the so-called capital efficiency levy. The same two parties, who would raise the retirement age 12 years later, decided in 2000 that people who saved themselves for their old age had too much money and that they should be dealt with. They had to return 30% of the return they earned on the money they had put aside, after they had already paid the highest rate of income tax on that income. Exactly how much return an investor would achieve was too difficult to verify, so a flat-rate return of 4% was assumed. At the time, the Minister said about the 4% that he intended to be the real return that someone had to be able to achieve risk-free investment in the long term. It was easy to do that in 2000. That's why only a few people are saying about that extra burden. But then the euro came, and it turned out to be a disaster. Yet Mr Draghi wanted to save him. That's why the savers lost interest. However, the second Rutte cabinet did not want to give up the 3 billion proceeds from the tax on savings. Back in 2017, Secretary of State Wiebes took the sting out of the business by taxing small savers lower and taxing large savers higher. The interest rate was lower and he earned the same amount. In his view, these larger savers could easily achieve a return of 5.6% on risk, although pension funds have been unable to do so for a long time. Mr. Chairman. This third pillar approach is symptomatic of the technocratic way in which successive Cabinets deal with the old age provision. People are punished if they want to secure their old age and they are obliged to do so by the social partners, while, I repeat, this is a core value in our civilisation. I return to the AOW, the first pillar, that of solidarity between rich and poor, between young and old. Mr. Chairman. You can't tell people it's your own fault you're getting older, you can fix it, because it's gonna cost us too much. This was not thought in 1956 when the AOW was introduced. At that time the Netherlands was poor, very poor, and could hardly foresee its own existence after the destruction of the Second World War. India had been lost. The government considered that our country could not feed all its inhabitants and therefore strongly promoted emigration. A large part of the population responded to that call and left for faraway countries. But even in that difficult time, the Netherlands made the AOW the first general public insurance, because the old generation had to be taken care of. At that time, there were no arguments about financing. No, first the elderly were taken care of and with the money left, the country was rebuilt. At the time, the right priorities were set. We can learn from history, provided it is taught. That is also the point where the Forum for Democracy identifies shortcomings in policy, but we will address them at another time. For now, just a final comment on the most recent parliamentary history, that of last month. In the Lower House, the Forum for Democracy was one of the two parties that voted against this bill, for reasons of principle; and rightly so. This bill is part of a bad series. First, the retirement age of 65 years has been released. Later the panic struck and the increase in the AOW age accelerated. Four years later, this acceleration is partly reversed. Does the government expect people to say "thank you" for that? I don't think they will, because this isn't sustainable governance. This does not create confidence in the government. Forum voor Democracy has submitted a motion to the debate in the Lower House to maintain the AOW age at 66 years, because the retirement age should be fixed in a civilized society and should not be postponed if the AOW becomes too expensive. However, this motion did not receive sufficient support. In this house, therefore, I have no more than a plea, a call to the government to reflect on the policy of the old age provision as a whole, at the heart of our civilized society. With a view to reflection, I should like to conclude with a few questions to the Minister. As far as the first pillar is concerned, does the Minister agree with me that we should consider the AOW as a social heritage that we should deal with as carefully as we do with cultural heritage? In that context, does the Minister intend to make the AOW a cornerstone of the government's financial policy, not to cut back in bad times and expand in good times, but to treat it just as much as the sovereign debt? The government doesn't say that either: we'll pay off later if we're a little short of cash. No, first, interest and redemption are budgeted on the sovereign debt and then we look at the scope for other policies. Would the government like to treat the oldest public insurance in the same way? First, to see what is needed every year to meet the obligation of our elderly people and then to see how much money is left for such things as subsidies for sustainability, or the cost of a generous immigration policy. On the last point in particular, my party would like to hear the government state that the AOW benefit to Dutch elderly people must take precedence over the cost of immigration. After all, it cannot be the case that the AOW is being cut because immigration is becoming increasingly expensive. Then there is the second pillar. Would the government acknowledge that the Dutch pension system, based on capital cover, does not relate to the ECB's monetary policy? Does the government realize that Mr Draghi's conscious desire for inflation and low interest rates undermines the second pillar of the Dutch old age care system? Would the government put an end to Mr Hoogervorst's incomprehensible political patience towards the ECB? And would the government like to appeal to Mr Draghi about the damage he is doing to Dutch workers and pensioners and make it clear that these costs, linked to the euro, were not part of the agreements on the basis of which we joined the currency union? Let me turn to the second pillar. Is the Minister prepared to include the quality of the board of Dutch pension funds in the consultation on a new pension agreement? Finally, a question on the third pillar. Would the Minister for Social Affairs ask his finance colleague to stop pretending that savers achieve more returns than pension funds? He may refer to the recent Court of Auditors' examination of flat-rate charges. Is the government prepared to end this financial abuse of savers and investors in the most simple way, namely by aligning the fictitious return used in the determination of the capital yield levy with the calculation rate imposed by De Nederlandsche Bank on pension funds? Put it all together, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Forum for Democracy calls on the government to adopt a diametrically different approach to the issue of ageing. That people are getting older, that's not a problem, that's the idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Frentrop on his beautiful maiden speech. At the start of this debate, the Christian Union Group would like to congratulate the cabinet, the minister, the unions and the employers on the pension agreement. It has lasted almost a decade, but the result is there. That might give it historical proportions. It is a powerful signal to society that it has finally succeeded in reaching an agreement on this issue of pensions, which is so important for all Dutch people, for young people and the elderly, for these and future generations. It is also good that the pension agreement can count on broad support from the social partners and their supporters. It is also good that coalition and opposition sought cooperation and found each other. The polder wavered, but didn't fall over. Mr. Chairman. In the context of this particular legislative proposal, there is a great temptation to consider the underlying pension agreement in full with the First Chamber organ on the necessary renewal of the pension system, the affordability of the AOW in the light of the ageing population, the cutting of the average system, the disputed calculation rate, the financial review framework, the long-term lack of indexation of pensions and the modernisation of the pension contract forms. I could go on like this for a long time, because we have issues to discuss, but I won't. The debate is simply not about that today. We are going to speak at another time about the broader pension agreement, especially as regards the legislative proposals derived from it. Now, as I would like to advise, we should confine ourselves to this rather one-dimensional bill which aims to ease the increase in the age of AOW. My group supports the underlying objective of only increasing the age of AOW. Looking back, we also feel that the increase in the age of AOW has gone too fast and too little in dialogue with society. All the arguments that we had in 2012 to legally anchor this increase are the sustainability of public finances due to ageing and the crisis, the rising average life expectancy, the longer healthyness of older workers were allowed to rely on broad scientific support, but social acceptance was not matched. The cool world of statistics and forecasts is a different perspective than the perceptions of citizens. People do not recognize themselves in statistical averages, in cohort descriptions and abstract extrapolations. This certainly applies to workers who are short of retirement. They consider interventions in retirement age to be different because they directly affect their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u3	Those are clear words from Mr Ester. That is important at the beginning of the debate. May I also translate this as an apology to the people who have faced too fast an increase in the AOW age in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u4	I don't think a lot of people are waiting for an apology. I think they're waiting for good policy. That's what today's about. Let's see if we can relax that AOW age. I told you, I think that's a very important signal to that same society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr Ester is right that people are waiting for good policies for the future, but a large group of people have suffered in the past and very recent past from policies that have now been said by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Union) that have gone too fast and that have not been understood by society. That is why I think it is appropriate for politics, when it adopts this bill, to say that in the past it has pursued a policy that has not worked out well for a large group of people. That's where people sit. You know them as well as I do. It doesn't make you any better, but you're gonna feel a little better if you think: I didn't ask too much, but I didn't get enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u6	My question is whether Mr Ester can agree that, in addition to saying that we need to make good policies for the future, it is appropriate that we should also apologize to those who have been the victims of this too fast policy. My question is whether it is weird, even if it doesn't make those people any better, to say that we shouldn't have done it like this. That could be balm on the soul, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u7	I don't know if those people feel that way. I would say that if we have to correct all the policies of the past here, we will be in the process of doing so. I would like to focus on the legislative proposal that is now before us and rather look to the future, by the way, learning from past experience. I'm about to say a few words about that. Mr. Chairman. Research shows that working longer for many older workers is a mental and physical burden. There is nothing wrong with labour motivation in our country, but people do not live on their own. Sometimes enough is enough. This is certainly true of workers in incriminating professions. Other priorities also require attention and maintenance: relaxation, care, volunteering, enjoying a well-deserved old age. The problem was that older workers were faced with a rather sudden increase in their retirement age. They felt overwhelmed; they felt overwhelmed. They had to rearrange their priorities and plans. The age cohorts directly underneath had to redefine their working future. We seem to be failing to bridge the gap between the world of more or less objective demographic trends and the role that citizens see for themselves. That is not unwillingness or reluctance on their part, but the result of conflicting priorities fighting for priority, of dilemmas that are very acute at the intersection of work and retirement. I wonder if the Minister recognizes himself in these critiques. In recent years, we have been overstepping our agenda with the increase in the age of AOW, so I would like to ask him. And, if so, what lessons does he learn from it? Did we really explain the story to the public? Mr. Chairman. The temporalisation of the AOW age in today's legislative proposal is currently focusing on the period 2020-2025. At the heart of the matter is that retirement at the age of 67 is shifted to 2024, which means that between 165 000 and 220,000 employees can retire earlier per year. The proposals for the period after that are certainly so decisive. With effect from 2025, the AOW age will be more moderate, for two thirds linked to the development of the remaining life expectancy at 65 years. My group supports this moderating approach. This last measure, which also benefits future generations, is not included in the present legislative proposal. The Minister has arguments for this. The pension agreement needs to be further worked out on this point too, and my group understands that the downside, however, is that, while there is rest and certainty for the next few years as to the age of AOW, the picture remains far more diffuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I note with Mr Ester all the understanding and support for this measure. I assume he can explain why, after a short break, we will continue to raise the retirement age by eight months each for each year we live longer. Does Mr Ester see any reasoning behind this? Can it be understood that each time we have to consider eight months later AOW for every year we get older?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you for this question. You will not have noticed that this is part of a much broader pension agreement. That is giving and taking, so we have all been able to see from the sidelines. This has come out and we have a ruling to make on it. I'll be happy to do the same this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u10	I note that it is then a deal, not from the pension holder's point of view, but a deal between politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u11	It's a story that was born in the lap of the polder and that's where we need to locate it. I think it would be a good idea to stick to that. Can the Minister explain to the bearer why the legislative cut was made as it was made between the two legislative proposals I just mentioned? Why didn't we just take care of it all at once? Will it bring back the social rest in the pension debate or rather shift it? How do we prevent another unwelcome message from being delivered in a few years' time? Mr. Chairman. Employees ask for longer working hours, even at a more moderate rate, with serious policies on sustainable employability and lifelong learning or, as it is called today, lifelong development. We need to get workers healthy and vital to their AOW age. Of course, they are responsible for that themselves. Sustainable employability and competence development are a guiding factor in this. The cabinet draws the wallet. There will be an integrated investment programme for sustainable employability. This amounts to an unfilled amount of no less than 800 million, spread over four years from 2021. And all this also needs to be further worked out. The Christian Union Group supports the commitment of the chosen policy, but points out that the existing policy on sustainable employability and lifelong development is certainly not a daring success. Too often the policy has been stuck in good intentions that did not pass through the stage of the basic paint. Despite years of discussion, sustainable employability policies are far from commonplace in companies and organisations. How are we going to make it roll over in the next year? Why is this gonna work now and why isn't it back in the day? That is not only a question of money but also of culture, I think. Here I have to tell you, Mr President, that my story is a little stretchy. Does the Minister share the urgency of much more stringent policies on sustainable employability and lifelong development, precisely in the light of this bill? And, if so, what is his agenda and how will it be worked out together with the social partners? Does this include targeted legislation? There is still a world to be won at this point, according to the Christian Union Group. The Council of State also stressed the need for effective policies on sustainable employability. This is, after all, a rather fragile part of the bill. Can the Minister promise my group that he will personally take the direction of scaling up the sustainable deployment policy? Is he going to monitor and evaluate progress? That seems to us to be extremely important. In order to relieve the burden of heavy-duty professions, the pension agreement provides a perspective on the financial facilitation of early retirement, including through a relaxation of the RVU scheme. This important measure should start from 2021. Here, too, the rules of the game must be further developed by the social partners in the forthcoming collective agreement negotiations. Around €19,000 will be exempted from the RVU levy. Can the Minister explain to my group that such an amount will make the difference in order to provide workers with a heavy occupation with relief? I thank the Minister for his answers to our written questions on the cover proposal. That has removed a number of uncertainties. It is a package of around EUR 8 billion, the coverage of which will be spread over 15 years. That's a lot of money, a lot of money, but a good pension agreement should be worth something to us too. This amount does not include the relaxation of the link of the AOW age to life expectancy after 2025. That is why, I assume, there is a separate proposal for cover. I also think it would be a good idea to ask the CPB to calculate the sustainability effects of the whole package. Mr. Chairman. Much of the fuss surrounding the previous increase in the AOW age in 2013 and its acceleration in 2015 was already related to the fact that older workers felt attacked. They had to work beyond the date that seemed to be poured into concrete in their experience. We must now be careful not to turn the side of society: older workers who suddenly have to retire earlier than planned. For everything, we need rest at the retirement front. This means clear public communication towards citizens and employees. My group urges the Minister to take this path convincingly. We are happy to get a commitment on this and we ask for a look at the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u12	Yes, I need half a minute, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for that. We also ask for the attention of the Minister for SMEs. Small businesses are required to manage the relaxation of the AOW age. What are the Minister's intentions here? Mr President, I will conclude. The Christian Union Group supports this bill to temporise the increase in the AOW age. The direction is good and responds to widely shared societal views. It helps older workers, maintains intergenerational solidarity and creates stability. We welcome the pension agreement on which this proposal forms part. We are also pleased that if it is really necessary the social partners are willing, once again, to settle. The polder still works, although it takes more and more time and is going to do it with horns and punches. I look forward to the Minister's answers to my group's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Frentrop on his maiden speech. I note that the PVV is no longer alone in this Chamber on many subjects. I think that is an extremely positive development. Mr. Chairman. On the agenda is the AOW age Act, but this issue cannot be separated from 1. economic developments in recent years, 2. the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission, 3. the pension agreement. I will therefore broaden the subject a little. First of all, I would like to reiterate what I, as spokesman for the PVV, have repeatedly stated here, namely that the disposable income of households in the Netherlands falls dramatically short of that in the neighbouring countries and the EU average. Purchasing power is therefore falling compared to purchasing power in the neighbouring countries and we must work longer than in the neighbouring countries: no less than five years longer. A delay caused by failing policies of tax increases and increases in the burden of the Rutte II and III Cabinets. More than a month ago, despite strong objections from the PVV, this Chamber passed the Climate Act. A large majority in this Chamber thought that was a fine law. Costs? 1,000 billion. Yield? Zero. Whether the support outside the Haagse stolp will be so large is seriously doubtful. Ever since the introduction of the euro, billions of euros have flowed each year towards festive southern Europe. Since 2011, Europe has installed the Italian Draghi in Frankfurt to ensure that Southern European countries can continue to be in debt for unlimited and free, at the expense of Northern Europe. Already at its first appearance for the ECB, on 3 November 2011, Draghi immediately surprised the market by lowering interest rates. And immediately, a three-year loan programme worth almost EUR 500 billion was introduced. It was followed by a few thousand billion more in free money for southern Europe. In addition, our own Rutte government itself spends some 10 billion a year facilitating mass immigration and more than 4 billion in development aid for corrupt regimes in Africa and the Middle East. But when it comes to retirement age, the Rutte government has been screaming murder and fire for years about the fact that we are getting older and that our older people cannot be paid. Here care homes are closed and elderly people are encouraged to continue working until they fall down. It's an absolute disgrace. The direct link of AOW age to life expectancy in 2012 was subsequently hysterical, said the Prime Minister two weeks ago after the Council of Ministers. That must have been in a scarce moment of self-knowledge. Too bad those moments don't happen more often. But no, he says further, we can now fine tune thanks to the new estimates of the Central Planning Bureau on the sustainability of the welfare state. There is a drop in gross domestic product of 0.5%, equivalent to about 4 billion, and the new link which increases the AOW age by eight months for each year that life expectancy increases one year costs 3.2 billion. So it can be paid out of this windfall, the crumbs falling off the table. A direct recognition of the fact that it is now trying to satisfy the Dutch people with the crumbs. Perhaps the Minister can explain if there is another theory behind that eight months increase for each year's life expectancy. I have already asked Mr Ester, but he didn't know what to do with it either. An additional condition of the cabinet was that the social partners should agree to what is called the renewal of the pension system. I'll get back to you on that. Let's take a look at the French employee. It goes on average at 60 years, on average!, Retiring. A Greek goes at 62, at least for what the Greek statistics are worth, because we do not have the best experience. Belgians and Luxembourgers also go earlier, with an average of 61 years. The EU average is 60.5 years for men and 59.5 for women. The Dutchman now retires on average with 64 years and 10 months, almost 65 years. On average, yes. So we will retire no less than five years later than the average in Europe. In France, all pensions increase from 2021; they are fully indexed from that time on. As they do not have a pay-as-you-go system, the lack of funding is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr Van Strien points out in the comparison in Europe Greece and France as regards the retirement age. Of course, you have to see that in a broader context. Which economy would it prefer now? The Dutch as we have them now, or the French or the Greek?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u15	We are not talking about a choice for the economy. I can only say that in recent years we have ensured that the economy has grown enormously, but the population has not noticed any of this. That is an economy that the PVV certainly does not support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u16	I understood that very well, but that was not entirely my question. Ultimately, the AOW and pensions will have to be paid by the people who keep an economy together in the air. My question was not what the PVV thinks of the Dutch economy, but what it would prefer. The French or the Greek where they can probably retire much earlier, or the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u17	I do not go into the question of which economy we prefer. I will deal with the financing of the AOW. In the rest of my story, I will come back to the question of how else to finance it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u18	Finally, I would like to make a comment. Mr Van Strien makes the comparison with other countries, but does not go through the equation to the core, namely whether we can pay it with each other in our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u19	On the issue of affordability, I will come back very clearly. As I said, all pensions in France are fully indexed from 2021 onwards. As they do not have a pay-as-you-go system, the lack of funding is increasing, but as interest rates are zero, it costs nothing at all. Nothing at all! Well, for the French then, because we pay the bill. Here the liabilities of the pension funds are based on the capital system that we, the Dutch economy, have, offset at a discount rate that is de facto dictated by Mr Draghi, about 0%. Otherwise, the French and other South Europeans would only have to pay too much for their loans. This means that for every euro they have to pay in 20 years' time, pension funds must already have €1 in cash, while for the last 20 years, but also for the last 10 years, including the financial crisis, they have on average made some 7% return on real estate shares and what is more. In reality, in order to be able to pay €1 in 20 years' time, they would only have to have a quarter in cash. At 7% return on average, you have a doubling time of ten years. To try to maintain the illusion that pensions are being considered, this government has set up the Dijsselbloem Commission, whose opinion we now know of. I want to take one completely perverse element out of that. This is the opinion on minimum inflation to be taken into account by pension funds in the future. So if, for example, they achieve a 7% return and there is 2.5% inflation, then they have to subtract that 7%, leaving them with 4.5%. By the way, the returns that can be counted are also maximized. But now the really perverse element comes into this story: inflation in this country is largely caused by the Dutch Cabinets-Rutte with their insane energy taxes which they intend to raise even further, their VAT and excise increases and the increases in health care. So, on the one hand, citizens are getting hit with huge price increases imposed by the government itself, and on the other hand, they are thinking that these price increases are an argument for reducing pensions. Perverse is hardly imaginable. This opinion was, of course, taken immediately by the cabinet. It's unnecessary to say that. The Law on Temperation Increase AOW Age should also be seen in the overall pension reform package and advice commission-Dijsselbloem, according to the government itself. A complete package of incomprehensible and unfinished measures. Fortunately, we will come back to these other incomprehensible measures in the course of the year. At the moment, I would like to say the following. Despite the fact that we have the best pension system in the world, despite the fact that we have around 60% of all European pension reserves with 1,500 billion in pension reserves, this government has been preventing our pensioners from being normally indexed for ten years. For ten years, the purchasing power of pensioners has fallen by about 20%. Ten years of confusion over our pension reserves and supposedly inadequate levels of coverage. All this has completely wiped out the Dutch's confidence in his pension in particular and in his old age in general. This confusion is now being used by introducing a new pension system under temporary temporalisation of the AOW age with the abolition of the average problem. In doing so, age groups are set up against each other and, if possible, more confusion is sown. Mr. Chairman. The PVV doesn't participate. The PVV stands for stopping climate hysteria and we do not want to wait ten years before Rutte recognizes that hysteria, stop with the euro, stop mass immigration and the AOW age without problems to 65 years. Then we can index pensions normally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For our part, too, congratulations to Mr Frentrop and to all the others who will be speaking for the first time today. For our part, be welcome, especially in this interesting and relevant debate! Mr. Chairman. In 2013, government and parliament signed off on the right to AOW with 65. My party thought that was a bad thing. In 2015, it was decided that the AOW age would increase faster than was agreed in 2013. My party thought that again was a bad thing. Now there is a bill that freezes the AOW age for 2020 and 2021 at 66 years and four months, and gradually increases between 2022 and 2024 to 67 years. On what will happen afterwards, however, an agreement has been reached by the government with representatives of workers' and employers' associations, but no legislative proposal has yet been submitted. My party is still in favour of AOW at 65, a very normal age in our neighbouring countries, such as Belgium, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Austria, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. There's 65 still 65 right now. In Germany and Spain the border is at 65 years and six months. Why, for example, do I ask the Minister, the government's third urge to keep the Netherlands at the forefront in raising the age of AOW? The argument that it costs money if the AOW age does not rise is one-sided. After all, what leads to an increase in the state is taken away from the citizens. I can't say it any simpler than that. They'll pay the bill. Of course, it's good news that we're getting older on average and in good health. But the bad news is that people with less education and income die on average seven years earlier and are also much less healthy on average. Socio-economic health inequalities are worrying and significant, even in our rich country. We politicians are on the right side of the line in this respect, but that is no reason to have too little regard for hardworking Dutch people who have much more trouble getting their AOW healthy. Mr. Chairman. In addition to what we consider to be a party, we take into account what is politically and socially feasible. That is why this year we went with the trade unions and other left-wing parties under the slogan 'AOW 66'. It was nice that these parties withdrew their over-hasty support for longer and longer work and thus allowed joint action with us and the trade unions again. AOW at 66 years was a compromise for us, but nevertheless worth fighting for it together with the unions and the rest of the left. According to opinion polls, this also found two thirds of the Dutch population and no less than three fourths of the Dutch population fully understand the actions of the trade unions and the left-wing parties to this demand this year. Also among the voters of the coalition, even those of the VVD, was support for freezing the AOW age at 66 years. Many people are disappointed that in the final pension agreement the AOW-age remained at 66 years and four months and did not reach 66 and not a day. That that age is now frozen before 2020 and 2021, most people think it is profitable, so do we. The fact that the increase continues after that, between 2022 and 2024 to 67 years, is bad with many people. Faced with the total package, to be approved or rejected, said, weighing everything, the supporters of the union by three fourths majority "yes." That statement must be respected. You can't always get what you want, said the Rolling Stones this year exactly half a century ago. That's right, but you understand, this agreement is not ours. Let it Bleed, it was called that album, I remember. What's in a name? What will happen next is not yet certain. There is an agreement, but no legislation for the follow-up. It is agreed that from 2025 onwards the AOW age continues to rise. That's a bad thing. However, the speed with which this is going is lower than in the current legislation: eight instead of twelve months a year growth in the remaining life expectancy. That's profit. The way in which the Minister is going to incorporate this into legislation will be evident this autumn. When will we know more about that, I'll ask the Minister. We're not waiting for another steam-and-boiling-water bill. Can he confirm that the one-to-one link between AOW age and life expectancy is definitely off the table, even if it is still in the legislation in force? Trust is good, control is better, they say. The future is already difficult to predict in general and the future of this cabinet is even more difficult. Can the Minister confirm that it is formally free for another government to come up with a different bill than this minister now has in mind, so also a bill to re-freeze the AOW age from 2025 onwards? Is it true, as I ask the Minister, that in our neighbouring Germany it has already been laid down by law that the 67 year limit will not be exceeded there until 2030? Finally, on the future. When are we just gonna let our pensions grow back into prosperity? How long do we allow pension assets to increase, but the amount that people receive is getting lower and lower? I must say that the Minister's reference to economic science in general and Jeroen Dijsselbloem in particular do not convince us. Those scientists were always wrong when it came to the origins of the crisis and Jeroen Dijsselbloem saw no need to make people pay for the consequences of the crisis caused by banks, companies and investors. Mr. Secretary, no one understands the calculus. So explain it again so that the people in the country get it. Bet they'll still say "no, thanks"? After all, what is crooked is not allowed to speak straight. Back to this bill. It is not what we wanted, but at least it is better than the legislation that was adopted earlier, with our vote against. As I said just now in the case of interruption, I hear an implicit "sorry" for this hasty policy. Mr Ester found it a bit difficult to make that "sorry" explicit, but in the rest of his speech I heard that. I would also like to hear it from the Minister. Anyway, in this respect, the legislative proposal is profitable and we congratulate all workers who have recently acted together with their trade unions against the current legislation on the AOW age. In this sense, it has once again been shown that action helps, even though it is often helped by the result that can eventually be achieved, given the circumstances. We have liked to stand shoulder to shoulder with the activists and the trade unions everywhere, and we are happy to do so again in the future, if the possibilities arise, to make the forthcoming legislation better than it seems to be today. Mr. Chairman. What this bill does not do is to make a proper arrangement for people in heavy professions, something that has been put forward for years but has never been delivered by politics. We think that is a very bad thing. According to opinion polls, eight out of ten Dutch people think that people with a physical or psychologically heavy occupation should be able to stop working without being financially disadvantaged. They mainly think of people who work in construction, nurses, ambulance workers, police, military and people who work in mental health care and education. It's a big problem, though working to get your AOW. Almost half of all Dutch people fear that they will not succeed. How long, so I ask the Minister, will it be before the government delivers what by far most people in this country want? The solution now found to allow workers to save up to two years' leave in order to retire earlier is actually a cigar from their own box. I find it painful to see that we politicians always attach great importance to the kind of leave that is to come, rather generous, that we call'recess' with a beautiful word, but that leave is apparently less important to those people who are seen as the hardest workers in our country. Leave, for example, is meant to refuel through the year or to have time for special obligations, isn't it not to abandon it in order to leave it at the end of your career in order to retire earlier? Does the Minister see that problem? Does he think he can find a creative solution for this in the future? Or does he say he doesn't see a solution? As he also says about the people who, however strange it may sound, suffer from the freezing of the AOW age because it means that they have to trade in their income-related social benefits for a generally lower AOW benefit. You know the problem. Several groups have called on the Minister not only to recognise the problem but also to do something about it here and in the House of Representatives. So far, however, the Minister has not seen the light of day on this issue. How's it going now? That's what I'm asking him. My group and I also think other groups want to see some kind of compensation scheme in place. If, according to the Minister, the billions that the pension agreement costs can be taken out of the general budget, then there must be coverage for such a limited compensation scheme. By the way, in 2013 and 2015, if the AOW age were not to rise rapidly, the seizure of the general resources would have been put forward as a firm argument for that increase. It seems that the story is no longer so compelling; several groups have already mentioned it in the written preparation. Doesn't this mean that afterwards it is recognised that in 2013 and 2015 we have been dealing with excessive doom thinking about the consequences for the country's finances if we don't reduce people's right to AOW by 65? Will opposition parties now be allowed to use the general funds as reasonable cover for their plans? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. I can see him smiling. The pension agreement is praised as a victory for the polder. Yes, as long as you live below sea level, you're forced to make agreements with others about keeping the dikes closed and grinding away the water, not going under. But if someone has lived on the Brabant sandy soil for a long time, well above Normal Amsterdams Peil, that "poldering" is always a strange indication. I would like to acknowledge that what is now contained in legislation is better than what is laid down in existing legislation, but that was also very bad, I have to say. I congratulate the trade unions and my former colleague, Turure Elzinga, on the fact that they have managed to make the bad less bad. This is not easy in a country where the right reigns and VNO-NCW usually dominates. But the fact remains that the three main requirements that have been fought for are: freezing the AOW age at 66 years old, indexing per generation and entitlement to a good pension forzzp'ers are not brought in, and that is very painful, especially for those who have stood on the barricades for us all. My group believes that the ultimate objective of political and social struggle should be to protect the polder from undermining on the basis of a dialogue in which employers are always stronger than employees. On balance, this always results in wet feet for those who have the least interest in doing so. The strategic goal should be to increase soil sustainably, so that the country is permanently protected from flooding, on the basis of much fairer parts of what we produce together in this country. You understand, Mr. Chairman, that my party is still called the Socialist Party for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u21	I would like to ask Mr Kox the following. I heard Mr Ester tell the enthusiastic story that there must be some kind of sustainable aid. I have calculated that this is about €163 per person per year. What compensation are you thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u22	I'm glad you're mathing. That can never hurt, but I do not think that you should ask me what compensation should be given in this respect. With my story, I argue that we have made mistakes in the past and that we are now adopting legislation that is better than what was there, but which is worse than what could have been. So my plea remains: AOW at 65. There will be some other arguments about what to do with pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u23	Then maybe I haven't been clear. On the contrary, I wanted to respond enthusiastically to your proposal for compensation. I think that is quite right. I think the compensation that Mr Ester is embracing is too economical. It doesn't really help, even considering the target. Is your vision wider than that other goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u24	To say here that I am more open-minded than Mr Ester would be arrogant, but he is already thinking in the right direction. If you think about it, and if the minister behind you, in particular, listens carefully to it, then we could, in the second term, make a fine motion together in which at least this Minister is asked to seek compensation for that group which has strangely become the victim of legislation that we could generally call 'good'. So if we can do something together in the second term at this point, I'd really like to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned that we are not the Socialist Party for nothing. If, in particular, large companies could be asked for a more reasonable share of their profits in general and if, in particular, those large companies would simply pay the tax instead of avoiding it, avoiding it or largely avoiding it through arrangements with the government, then our general resources would allow a significantly better pension scheme. Then the bill did not always end up with those who have the least and the benefits did not always fall on those who have too much. The Minister understands that our preference is less towards poldering and more towards a truly progressive government policy based on the importance of the many and not on the interest of the few, even in this case. But for the time being, we are doing it with the legislation he is presenting to us here in the Chamber today. It could be better, but it's better than what we've had so far. I look forward to his response to my speech and his answers to my questions. I would like to invite colleagues to be creative in the second term in order to ask the Minister for compensation on certain points which would be reasonable and bearable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u26	This part seems to me to be a bit derailed. Mr Kox is an old rot in the business, as it turns out now. I never used the word "compensation." What matters to me is that we have a sustainable employability policy to ensure that workers are able to go to that AOW age in a healthy way. I understand that $800 million has been spent on this. That seems to me to be an amount that may exist, but that is not about compensation. I'm going back to Mr. Kox, if you don't mind. That acrobatics doesn't seem easy to me. You're for AOW at 65, but you can live with 66. You're up 67, but if it goes down, you're up for it. That seems complicated to me. I would like to ask you a question on the issue of early retirement. The pieces contain a story about the adaptation of the RVU regime. This is also about serious money. Can I ask you if you see anything in that arrangement, or if it can also be "off" on the pile?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u27	I would like to thank Mr Ester for his three questions. I just thought I was being generous today. I also saw the Minister look with peace of mind, like: it is not that bad at all. But, yes, you cannot ask me to abandon my principles. That's not how I met you. If things don't work out the way the Christian Union wants them to, I won't hear you say: I'm going to step away from my starting points. That's what you're holding on to. At the same time, however, I have said in this Chamber and also to you that we are looking at what is politically and socially feasible. We regret that the three demands of the trade union movement, which were supported by the left-wing parties and which seemed feasible, were ultimately not met. I am not looking at anyone right now, but I note that. Mr Ester said a few words about the compensation scheme. You're right about that. I take it you wouldn't be very opposed if the Minister could find anything. So I just want to keep thinking in that direction. You say: it's weird that the SP says this one time and the other time says that. We are not completely stuck in dogmas, but we do know our starting points. We find 65 is 65. That's a nice age. I have indicated that it is the existing age in our neighbouring country. But if we are on the table that we are moving quickly to 67 and 70, and if we can slow it down, then we are also socialists of the act. We'd rather have the better in exchange for the worse. That doesn't make the better, as you know. I don't need to start a religious dispute here with colleague Ester, but you have your starting points and you shouldn't let them go too quickly. That's not good in politics, because it makes people feel bad. But for the rest, I await the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u28	Oh, yeah, the question about early retirement. I haven't said it officially yet, but we're voting in favour of this bill. The Minister already knew that, because that is what we did in the House of Representatives. But a bill that is good on balance contains a number of things that are very sensible, but also a number of things that are not good. That's politics. I have tried to outline that the SP, apart from a socialist party, is also a very practical political party. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Frentrop. I note with the PVV that 50PLUS is also less and less alone about AOW and pension. No maiden speech for me today. The AOW proposal is part of the so-called broad pension agreement. First of all, I should like to comment in detail on this agreement. Mrs Van Brenk, my colleague in the House of Representatives, described the agreement in the House of Representatives last week as follows: an agreement has been reached on the problems, but no agreement has yet been reached on the solutions. It seems, I say, more like a procedure agreement with good intentions and intentions to be worked out by the steering committee and where, according to Busker and Elzinga, in the Financial Daily of 17 June, the goals are at the forefront. I quote: 'a purchasing power and stable pension in which the resources are less relevant as far as we are concerned'. On the occasion of Dijsselbloem they said: "... that we can now turn all the buttons to achieve those goals." To the question of the Financial Daily that the calculation rate button is the market rate, Busker replies: "If we do not achieve those goals, we will go back to the table. As far as we are concerned, it is sacred that we also achieve these goals." That is very harsh and clear language. I'd like a response from the Minister. The cabinet, together with the social partners themselves, also states that, if the steering committee fails to reach agreement, I would say that this may well be the case if negotiations are taken back to the level of negotiators. If they do not come out, there is no agreement, because it is a total package. That is what I am asking the Minister. I have some questions for the Minister. What happens if there is no agreement on pensions at the decentralised level? Does the slower link of the AOW age to life expectancy not continue? When is the composition of the steering committee known and when is the report expected from that steering committee? I read something somewhere in nine months. Is there going to be a task and how does it come about? Will there be control over the composition of the steering committee and the task of that group? How are scientists, De Nederlandsche Bank and pension practitioners involved in the steering committee? Anything or just the double transition as the minister indicated? How is the valuation framework used in the steering committee for the valuation of debt securities to be applied to the collective in which the choice of valuation interest is decisive? Isn't the steering committee powerless as long as the arithmetic rate hangs like a sword of Damocles above the chord? 50PLUS considers that the calculation rate and the abolition of the average premium are the two Achilles heels of the agreement on pensions. I'll start with the calculus rate. It's the calculus rate, dumbass. That's the mantra I've been using for years. The interest rate is now below 1%. Two sizes are measured. In politics, there is a consistent manipulation of the rules on interest rates and yields. 1% discount rate for liabilities and 3% for pension contributions. How can this 1% be defended if the income tax in box 3 is to be counted with a fictitious return of 5.6% for assets above 1 million? Then why count 1% for the ABP with 400 billion assets? You can't explain that, can you? We also believe, with the Forum for Democracy, that the fictitious return should go down hard, preferably to the arithmetic rate. Rutte used the term "hysterical" for the 2012 AOW agreement two weeks ago. I use the same word "hysterical" for the arithmetic rate. I'm adding: The Netherlands is a calculus. One remembers Lubbers' ruling at the WAO and those million disabled people: 'The Netherlands is sick'. We're a calculus patient. I predict that the r-word for arithmetical interest will fall, just like recently the h-word for mortgage interest. The interest rate is going down and will be increased. I predict that if that doesn't happen, there will be no pension agreement. Will the Minister respond to this? The interest rate will destroy our beautiful, current pension system, but the new system will also be destroyed. It drives the coverage further down and below 100%, where we are now, that still means discounts, despite all the fairy tales of the cabinet. The arithmetic interest is cast in concrete and turned into an article of faith in the Netherlands. You either believe in it or you don't. No discussion, please, says the Cabinet, but we will not settle for that. That's gonna turn out to be the case now. The calculation rate is the risk-free interest rate, composed of the interest rate forecast up to 20, immediately 30 years, and the long-term interest rate between those 30 years and 60 years, the so-called Ultimate Forward Rate, UFR. The ten-year interest rate is now at a low point of negative 0.15%, the lowest ever. The discounts are going to be there as well. The calculation rate means that we have to count 60 years on that fictitious return of almost 1% of GDP, maybe it goes to zero, while the returns over the last 30 years were on average 7%. The problem of calculating interest rates has been put on edge again by the Minister and Klaas Knot, who, shortly before the failure of the negotiations in November, put a bomb under a possible agreement. To many surprise, last autumn, the Minister took the view that even in the case of softer claims, remember that word correctly in the new pension contract, risk-free interest should continue to apply. In doing so, he took Knot's advice. In the context of the debate in the Lower House last year, Knot had confirmed that the calculation rate could be adjusted in the case of softer claims. I thought it was inside. The predecessors of Minister Koolmees and also the predecessors of Knot have always stated to De Nederlandsche Bank that the risk-free interest rate "read the Acts" is necessary for the nominal claims, as they exist in the current collateral contract. I asked the Minister for support in written questions, but his response did not convince me at all. I would ask the Minister once again to explain why, in the event of a softer claim, the interest rate cannot be adjusted. I would point out that pension claims are a wage agreement between employer and employee and not a financial product. In my view, this does not fit in with market valuation as if it were a financial product. There is no market for pensions. 50PLUS submitted an initiative proposal at the time to increase the calculation rate to 2% for five years, thereby correcting the interest-bearing effect of the ECB's policy. According to De Nederlandsche Bank, this was almost 1.5% and according to the ECB 1%. The CPB then indicated that my proposal was generation-neutral because of the five-year transitional period. A 1% lower interest rate by the ECB represents a huge fall in the coverage rate, i.e. 15%. Our proposal in the House of Representatives was unfortunately rejected and therefore does not come here. The pension agreement and the advice of Dijsselbloem proved once again the right of 50PLUS on the need to adjust the calculation rate. 50PLUS is for a calculation efficiency of between 2% and 2.5%, perhaps even 3%. That's careful, realistic and honest. I'd like a response from the Minister. The calculation rate has recently reached a low point, partly due to a new announcement by Draghi. Interest rates will not be increased in the coming year, and the ECB will also keep all options open for re-intervention with buy-back programmes. Today, thanks to Draghi, interest rates in Italy have fallen below 2%. That too is a low point, but in a different sense than our low point for calculating interest. The ten-year interest rate is now negative 0.15%, and the calculation rate for the liabilities is now below 1% of those much higher returns. It is bizarre that pension contributions may be calculated on the basis of an expected return of up to 3% and therefore not cost-effective. The cabinet has decided to introduce the cost-covering premium based on the calculation rate rather than on expected return, as 50PLUS has always demanded, as long as the calculation rate applies. But it will lead to a huge increase in premiums and or a much lower build-up. Can the Minister state exactly what the consequences are for the premiums and the build-up of the cost-covering premium, for example for the ABP? According to Van Popta of the metal pension fund, the PMT, it would be 9.2% premium increase for the PMT and the premium, together with the effect of the lower returns of Dijsselbloem from 3,7%, would increase from 22% to 34,9%. Can the Minister confirm this? Thanks to the calculation rate, because now the absurd calculation rate is also used for the premiums. A premium increase of almost 50%! What kind of crazy person makes this up? Can the Minister confirm Van Popta's figures? The funds are wealthy, but they're counted low. Power doubled from 700 billion to 1400 billion after the 2008 crisis. The Netherlands has by far the lowest calculation rate in Europe. We are the rise of Europe. The pension system cannot deliver what it needs to do, namely indexing. The Dutch Bank has predicted that with the current interest rate for 5 to 10 million participants there will be a discount of 5% to 10% for current and future pensioners at the end of this year or at the end of next year. That was the reason for GroenLinks and 50PLUS to recently submit an initiative bill to the House of Representatives to give pension funds more time to avoid these threatening discounts. The proposal is to extend the five-year recovery period by two years. This is all the more important with the pension agreement because the new system will not be in place until 2022 or later. 50PLUS had asked in May in a rejected motion to avoid discounts if the coverage level was above 100%. In the debate on the agreement, the Minister undertook to implement this 50PLUS motion. The Minister is prepared to give the funds extra time and not to cut above 100% for the time being through Article 142 of the Pension Act. How long, so I ask the Minister, is it provisional and under what circumstances is the Minister prepared to make this permanent? Or is it gonna be reversed later and why? The pension agreement must be reduced if the level of cover is below 100%. That was 104, by the way. I would ask the Minister whether he is prepared to avoid discounts over the next two years if the level of coverage remains below 100%, as is currently the case. This may be the case, for example, for the metal pension funds PME and PMT at the end of 2019 and for ABP and Care and Welfare at the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u31	I heard Mr Van Rooijen say somewhere in his fantastic clear speech: which madman invented this? Did you mean that in the cabinet or in support of the civil service there is such a person on the loose? Or is that the EU's influence on Dutch policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you for your question. It starts with the rules we have made in the Netherlands. Prime Minister Rutte tried to tell me in the First Chamber that he is not about pensions, because that would be the social partners and pension funds. Well, they don't have anything to say about that. Rutte is the only one in the Netherlands who is responsible for the rules that we now have, also for accounting interest rates rules and for the arithmetic interest rate disease we have in the Netherlands. Under those rules, Draghi planted a bomb. That was not foreseen at the time, but it happened. We're the only country with Calvinist rules. Draghi's policy has led to a gradual reduction of the rate of calculation from 5% in 2005 to 4%. When Draghi took that measure, the calculus rate was shattered to almost zero. Rutte's Dutch rules in combination with Draghi's malpractice lead to large discounts in the Netherlands. Then who's crazy? That's a lot of them. I have said that the Netherlands is governed by the Ministry of Finance, De Nederlandsche Bank and the Central Planning Bureau, institutions, eh. I used to call that the troika. These three bodies determine what happens in the Netherlands. I've been with you for a while, and I can back that up. A cabinet, but also a First and Second Chamber stand by and look at it. If Finance, De Nederlandsche Bank and the Planning Bureau say: this is how it should be done, then it just happens. Now, for example, look at the Dijsselbloem report. The day after the agreement, the Minister sends a letter to the Chamber, puts a stamp on it and prepares it. He also did so with Knot's view last year that softer claims should be subject to risk-free interest rates. The Minister needed a little more time to think, because Knot agreed with me first and then he didn't. How do you explain that? Two weeks later, there was a letter. Knot and Koolmees agreed again. Even in the case of softer claims, the calculation rate remains the risk-free interest rate. I'm trying to tell you how the system works. It is Rutte's rules, Draghi's policy and three bodies in the Netherlands that set this up with each other. They don't want to think about it or talk about it. They want to keep this article of faith molded in concrete and not have a discussion about it. When I came to the House of Representatives with my own initiative proposal, the coalition felt that I should keep my mouth shut, because the calculation rate was poured into concrete. We can't talk about that. Only the SP, the PVV, we and Forum have said that we are going to do so. That's what I'm gonna keep doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u33	I'm gonna finish this one. Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u34	I didn't want to continue at the calculus rate. I am sure that Mr Van Rooijen has more knowledge of the calculation rate in his pinky than I do in my entire body. I don't want to have that discussion. I would very much like to ask what the purpose of his speech is with regard to the law we are discussing today, namely the temporalisation of the increase in the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u35	Yes, of course, I will come back to that at the end of my speech. If you'll just wait for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u36	Yes, Mr President, but I am speaking on my own time. Critical levels of coverage are increasing by an average of 6.5% to 96.5% as a result of the agreement. This means that there should be a definitive reduction in the critical coverage below 96.5%. That was 90%. If the coverage rate is below 100% for five years, there should be unconditional reduction. Those discounts just stay on the table. Coverage is below 100%. Under 100% will be cut if you're under it for five years. If the critical coverage rate is below 96.5%, it will also be reduced. That's what we're on right now. During the pension agreement, raging texts were spoken by Rutte and the Minister that indexing would be possible again. But then the coverage levels must be above 100% and it does not look that way because of the low interest rates. Hope is then a poor consolation, even for the unions. Will the Minister acknowledge that if the coverage rate remains below 100% by the end of 2019, it will still have to be reduced? At the end of May, the coverage rates for these two metal funds had fallen to 93.5% and also for ABP and Care and Welfare. According to today's calculations in Pension Pro, the coverage rate remained the same in June, despite the great equity returns, as the calculation rate has fallen further. It's fighting the beers. And can the Minister confirm that if this calculation rate remains so low, the coverage rate can remain below 100% and thus nothing of the indexation ambition ends up? Shorten it and not index it. I now come to the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Committee, which has been mentioned here earlier. The committee's advice came the day after the pension agreement was concluded and struck like a bomb. The long-term interest rate, the UFR, is reduced against the forecast with the result that the coverage rate will fall by 2,5% additional from 2021. That opinion is formally applicable under the current contract, but the committee has indicated that this UFR will not be different under the new system. And that is a new lock on the door of the promised indexation. Can the Minister explain again whether the opinion of the Dijsselbloem Commission is also valid under the new contract? That remained unclear in the Lower House last week. The Minister spoke about a different impact of the Dijsselbloem advice. Reference has always been made to achieving the goals and outstanding resources. I couldn't quite follow. Is it true that the Minister seems to be offering an opening? Can risk-free interest rates be reconsidered in this context? What does the Minister think of the plea of 50PLUS in the Lower House for a new opinion of the parameter committee for the new contract? And is the Minister prepared to set up an independent accounting committee to examine whether softer claims require risk-free interest? Dijsselbloem has also set new and lower parameters for return expectations, which will apply from 2020. Can the Minister indicate the consequences for the ABP, for example? There's something strange going on in our country with this long-term interest rate. It is different for insurers and pension funds. That is strange because, of course, there is only one long-term interest rate. By definition, it can only be the same for everyone, for the funds and for insurers. At that time, the UFR was introduced. It was, of course, the same for insurers and pension funds at the time and was fixed at 4.2%. A UFR committee on the other side, set up at the request of D66, adopted a different UFR for the funds shortly thereafter, variable and falling to risk-free interest rates in ten years. The UFR is going to be zero and will no longer exist in a few years' time. Dijsselbloem has nothing more to do. According to the rules of the European Supervisory Authority EIOPA, each country may determine the level of the UFR itself for pension funds, but here we go again: we choose the lowest UFR across Europe. Last year, the European supervisor EIOPA indicated that the Dutch UFR was not stable. Insurers are still subject to Solvency II and long-term interest rates are always set at a fixed rate, first at fixed 4.2% and now slightly reduced to fixed 3.6%. Mr President, the ESC opinion. I quote: "The ESC recommends that pension claims be valued in all pension contracts on the basis of risk-free market interest rates. The cabinet attaches great importance to this objective and generation-neutral valuation measure." The Minister gives a gramophone record answer to last week's written questions from the CDA, in which my group agreed, on risk-free interest rates. I've heard it dozens of times now in four years and that gramophone record is always the same: the arithmetic rate is always the way it is, no matter what happens and changes. That's why I'm putting that back on the table. Mr. Chairman. A difficult problem was, and continues to be, the so-called collective entry into force: the conversion of existing claims and rights into a new contract. The Cabinet is prepared to facilitate collective entry and to lay down the rules for this by law if necessary. To this end, a valuation framework for the conversion to the new contract will be developed. The decision to convert existing claims is up to the social partners. But the rules determine politics. I would like to draw attention to the individual right of objection to this transposition under Article 83 of the current Pension Act. I have the following questions. Can the Minister explain how he intends to solve the problem of boarding? Is Article 83 being abolished, as was the case with the real contract? Can the Minister explain how this valuation framework is being developed? Here, too, the calculation rate at which the conversion takes place is at stake. It will be clear that the choice of valuation interest has a major impact on the value at which rights are converted. Is the risk-free interest rate used or higher interest rate used? This is very important for pensioners. I fear a great battle over the distribution of that 1,400 billion pot between the workers and no longer employed. I also fear that this valuation rate can be manipulated and will lead to a new generational conflict. Can the Minister take away this fear? Mr President, for the time being, I will skip the average premium and move on to the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. The two-year freeze of the AOW age is a relief for the citizens. As a rule, both chambers are in principle positive about this. But the budget is about substantial amounts: occasionally for the AOW 5.3 billion and additional nearly 3 billion, a total of 8 billion. Over the next 15 years, expenditure needs to be cut and charges increased to a total of 8 billion. As long as the budget is occasional, it seems that you can make big budgetary leaps, make expensive decisions and put the bill in four subsequent cabinets in the future. Governing is looking backwards. Mr President, I can be brief on the proposal. It is nothing more than a cigar from Rutte II's own box and also from its own PvdA box. After all, this proposal only shifts the acceleration of the increase to 67 years. It is pitiful that Asscher in the Lower House has apologized for this wrong decision which he has always defended as a minister. Compared to the basic decision of 2012, we are back to Rutte I's hysterical decision, which was co-created through the friendly opposition of D66, GroenLinks and the Christian Union. That was defended as a crisis measure. Well, that crisis is over. The height of the AOW age is a purely political decision. Finally, Mr President. For 50PLUS this freeze is a step in the right direction. That is what we support, as well as the five-year temporary arrangement to end earlier. But we want a permanent settlement. I'd like a response from the Minister. The softer link to life expectancy is also a step in the right direction. Mr Kox already referred to the situation in Germany. Merkel decided in the campaign that the retirement age would remain at 67. After 2025, we're moving hard towards 70 years. I would like to give the Minister the advice again to think about this German example. Mr. Chairman. 66 is good, but 65 is even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Frentrop. He had a solid argument. It would have been worth a sweet thing if it hadn't been his maiden speech. At least I could have stood there to interrupt. Mr President, also as a kind of disclaimer today: I am a member of the board of the pension fund for social services. And people in social employment also benefit greatly from the subject we have on the agenda today. Mr. Chairman. In just six years we are now treating the AOW age for the third time. Mr Frentrop has also said this. Where in 2013 the principle that 65 years would no longer automatically give entitlement to retirement pension was accepted by law, in 2015 it was decided to accelerate the step-by-step increase in the AOW age. There was then pressure on the financing of the AOW through ageing and hazing. The increasing life expectancy, with a small group of workers happy for an ever larger group of people, I would add that long-term, healthy elderly people had to take care of the future of the pay-as-you-go policy. Where we are talking today about a temporalisation of the 2015 plans, one might wonder whether 2013 and 2015 have produced anything. That is what has been done in this debate. I would not apologize, but I would like to answer that question positively, because we see that more people are working until retirement age. We remember working for an average of up to 59 years in 2000. Now we're working for nearly 65 years. But I am right in saying that it also has a shadowy side to it. Not everyone can get their pension in a healthy way, as follows from research. In addition to the agreements on the reform of the second pillar pension, the cabinet and the social partners have now made agreements aimed at improving the ability of workers to reach the finishing line of the AOW age. Mr. Chairman. I am already saying it in the first term: the members of the CDA Group support the cabinet's proposals. But we do have a number of questions and comments. Mr. Chairman. With this law we introduce a reduction in the previously agreed AOW age, although it is only a few months. No matter what you do, whether you have a benefit or work, the date on which you receive AOW is fixed until 2024. Also in the written debate, the members of the CDA Group asked the question what we would do with people who like to work until at least the old AOW age. The Minister's answer is very clear, but not satisfactory. He says there's no right to continue working. The further answer to our question: the AOW age is a natural moment and if you remove that natural moment, it could have an adverse effect on employers' willingness to employ older workers. Mr. Chairman. The Minister then further announces that he intends to bring forward a summary of the employability of older workers with extra money in a further proposal. Mr Ester has also spoken about it. I would ask the Minister, also in view of this employability and the large amount of money he is going to put into it, to look again at whether this compulsory dismissal can be done at the age of 65. Mr. Chairman. The members of the CDA Group are aware of this and the Minister has also indicated this in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal for a law that the advance of the AOW age in the financial sense is not a progress for everyone. Is it possible for the Minister to go into this again, as requested by several spokesmen? By the way, I also see that generic compensation is almost impossible because not everyone is affected in the same way. However, when I look at the annex to the explanatory memorandum, I also note that the SVB recommends that the legal analysis be adapted in the explanatory memorandum on the transitional right. That's what happened. Reference was made to the first ECHR protocol. I wonder if that justification is considered sufficient to prevent us from getting into trouble. Mr. Chairman. I have another point that I would like to draw attention to and which we are concerned about. There is a large group of participants who have already applied for early retirement, but who have not yet taken up that pension. For those participants, an AOW compensation goes on for too long, as the AOW date is reached earlier. As a result, it may be possible to receive a few months' pension which does not remain within the fiscal framework. Is the Minister prepared to see if there is a solution to this problem with his finance minister? All execution recommendations that have been asked very early for SVB, UWV and Tax Administration talk about 1 July as their final date. And you're not gonna make it, because today's the 2nd of July. So placement in the State Gazette on July 1 will not be possible. Are you expecting any trouble? Mr. Chairman. It has been agreed that questions may also be asked about the pension agreement when examining this proposal for a law. And colleagues are more or less involved in this. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister, the chairman of the ESC and certainly the social partners. There's a proposition. The Minister has in the Lower House of Parliament I'm going to talk about the procedure and I'm going to agree to come up with a road map. Of course, we are very keen to see them here too. Mr. Chairman. The steering committee needs to get to work now. This steering group consists of social partners and the cabinet. They have nine months to grow to a beautiful birth of a pension system. At least they can work out the contracts. With very special interest in the debate of the spokesmen in the House of Representatives, we have seen that 'objective over means' is also laid down in a motion for a resolution by Mr Klever and Mr Asscher. When moving to a new system, and I say that this steering committee must therefore have room to achieve the objective to be achieved, also in a different way. In replying to our questions, I see that the Minister has shown greater restraint in this response than he did on the other side. I therefore ask you once again: does the Minister also share our view that the result to be achieved in the formation of pension contracts is more important than the precise means? Mr. Chairman. With extreme caution, we in the CDA Group have once again asked about the calculation rate, not least that the CDA-First Chamber Group, as well as scientists and supervisors, is asking whether only risk-free market interest is the only method of calculating buffers for a collective contract. Then the Minister comes in the answer, because we have also put that question in writing with a whole range of arguments. What strikes me then is that the Minister assumes that the knowledge of the members of this Chamber is so low that he even dares to claim that your young people are failing to index. I do not need to explain here that where older people are indexed, this also applies, of course, to those who are still part of the fund. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to answering the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Frentrop on his first appearance in this Chamber. Secondly, I would personally like to thank Minister Koolmees for the speed with which he has acted in submitting the present legislative proposal under the summary name Temporisation of the AOW age. And why? Not only because it is necessary because of the requirement of public awareness; not only because my group agrees with the proposal, but personally, Minister, because it allows me to speak in this Chamber as the first of my group of seven newcomers. Mr. Chairman. In certain jurisdictions, the use that a first action is short, not controversial and, above all, should not concern the subject on the agenda. Fortunately, we do not know this tradition, because it might have tempted me to draw your attention to the dawn and wisdom of Minerva. I'm not gonna do that until you're all relieved. In addition, unfortunately my Leiden student days have been behind me for a long time. So much so that I received tutoring from Joop van den Berg, my former professor, and that was very much needed. He was the one who excited me at the time to pay attention to politics and parliamentary history during my studies. Now emeritus professor and former chairman of the Labour Party in this house. However, the use here is on land that during such a first performance the nervous debutante should not be contradicted or interrupted. Now, that's a tradition that needs to be honored, because it's an unprecedented luxury. Luckily, one time too, otherwise the debate will be smothered and the plenary debate will only consist of a boring succession of read-out statements. That is what happens in many Council meetings in Brussels, Mr President. And I can assure you, that's death in the pot. No one will be surprised that it never occurred to me that my first performance would be devoted to the present bill. I originally intended, in view of my background and experience, to show my vision of Europe and developments in the European Union during my first action. But I still owe you one of those exhibits. Although... Let's say we're a little wider than just the AOW. I'm gonna do it this morning, because it's still morning, really don't talk about issues like calculus, heavy professions and average premium. All this will come later; I just wanted to talk about the AOW and the temporization. If we go a little wider, then I have found a European hook. I cannot resist saying something about it, namely a second pillar hook. For a long time I have dealt with European laws and regulations in the field of financial services, in Brussels and in Amsterdam, including the pension sector. That was an interesting time, to which I have also had good friends; one which I can now refer to as colleague in this position. The main task was to protect the Dutch system from unnecessary and obstructive European regulations. Was that necessary? The answer to that is a full "yes." Why? Because the Dutch system is unique. There are only three countries that have something similar. Unfortunately, one of these Member States has expressed its wish to leave the European Union this year. It's always sad to lose friends. We'll only have two left. But the other Member States have a much less robust second pillar system than we know. If they wanted to develop that, they lack knowledge and hardly have enough money for it. As a result, the European Commission and the decision-making bodies in the Union, the Council and Parliament are not always keen on what is needed to modernise a system and to ensure that it meets the requirements of time. The Dutch system is judged as, and is, one of the best in the world, Mr. Frentrop. The Netherlands is envyed in this respect. But let's be alert that it's just envy. We must be vigilant, always of course, but certainly also when regulation comes from the European cuisine. Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal appears to be a necessary element in order to bring about the modernisation of the pension system. It is a first step on a fairly long road towards full implementation of the overall package of measures. The proposal of law can count on broad social and political support, which has also been shown during the examination in the Lower House. Or should I say, during treatment across the street? That is why our only reservations fit. In line with the government's request, everything is intended to align the proposal by today at the latest. The VVD Group wants to participate in this. As a group, we have little or no additional questions on this particular one, including the first pillar of the legislative proposal. But that doesn't say anything about the follow-up, Mr. Secretary, that we still have to go together. On paper, it is a reasonably balanced package of planned measures. However, it is clearly a matter of giving and taking. This is part of government: having the courage to compromise and defend it. That is not always nice from a party political point of view, and that is also not nice because it does not always fit politics. But you can't afford to keep putting important decisions on the line all the time. When this compromise was reached, we did not go ice cream over one night, as we can see. I am not going to list in detail where my party has had to do water with wine, and the Minister knows this all too well. However, I would like to make three comments on the substance. I am pleased to note that the aim is to maintain the link to increasing life expectancy, albeit somewhat delayed. This is necessary in order to maintain a reasonably affordable system in the future. With the introduction of the AOW, the average age and life expectancy was lower when reaching the age of 65, significantly lower. So such a delay is also only logical. Second. That does not alter the fact that the proposal before us is an expensive joke. I have been told that the four-month delay costs about EUR 3 to 4 billion, apart from the loss of tax revenue and premium charges. In my opinion, the coverage would have been more robust, all the more so because, as far as I can tell, it is partly incidental. When I read passages that the average age of exit, as Mrs Oomen has already pointed out, was 59 years in 2000 and now 65 years and that these active elderly people pay contributions and pay taxes longer, I can actually tell that some of the coverage is sought here. But I must be mistaken, because I cannot imagine that a former member of the Ministry of Finance, even in the Budget Department, would be able to agree to this. I can tell you that, as a former deputy inspector, I never dared to go any further than Deputy Inspector................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A third and final point. Wouldn't it be nice, Mr. Chairman, to get rid of being forced to stop working? In any case, this can also compensate for a possible fall in income. Functional age discharge is no longer of this time. The Minister said elsewhere that it was possible to continue working, but it was not entirely convincing to me, because at the same time he promised to come up with a programme to promote sustainable employability in the autumn. The VVD Group looks forward to this programme with particular interest. Because as long as you have the energy and motivation to stay active, whether or not in the same job, that can be facilitated. I also find it extremely unfair to set up or maintain blockades. Because why would you give politicians something like that and not others? The President of this Chamber in the previous parliamentary term has given a professional, competent, charming and humorous direction to the work of this Chamber and has recently been motivated and enthusiastically engaged in her new job; chapeau! But according to a rigid system that some Dutch people have to deal with, she should have stopped working years ago. That really has to change. Mr. Chairman. Let me conclude by saying that I am pleased to be able to contribute to the useful work in this Chamber over the next four years, a contribution whose added value can only be increased by close and cooperative cooperation with all of you. In Brabant, where I finally came from, they would say, Mrs. Nanninga, "the head is off."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm following Mrs. Oomen by starting with a disclaimer. I am working as a member of the board of directors of RMU, a small trade union for both employees and entrepreneurs, but not part of the social partners. I am therefore simply speaking on behalf of the SGP. I would, of course, like to congratulate Mr Frentrop and Mr Van Ballekom on their maiden speech. I look forward to a good cooperation in the coming years. And, of course, congratulations to the Minister for the pension agreement that lies ahead and which we have eagerly looked forward to. Today, I will focus mainly on the legislative proposal before us, namely the temporalisation of the AOW age increase. Mr. Chairman. Solidarity is a great asset in our society. It is not for nothing that there are excellent social services for people of all ages. Today we talk mainly about the older citizens of the Netherlands, but also young people are involved; in fact already when you are 16 years old. After all, your build-up period starts in order to be able to claim 100% AOW. Besides, as soon as you get to work, you can already pay to the neighbor's AOW. Nothing wrong with that, anyway, because the average 18-year-old probably wouldn't think of giving a weekly amount of money to the same neighbor. If that young person would do that, then that is wonderful, but then we have another word for it: then it is charity. What is the difference between charity and solidarity? That's not so easy to tell. After all, charity is not easy to express in money. Beside love is of a higher order, a biblical mission, to have an eye for the neighbor and to seek the good for that neighbor in all stages of life. That includes the elderly. The Bible even speaks of standing up for the gray earth. Solidarity, on the other hand, is used in a variety of contexts. According to the praiseless Van Dale, it means, in the law of state, in the political context, "a consciousness of solidarity and willingness to bear its consequences." This form of solidarity is reflected in our AOW, a wonderful provision for the elderly. Through the AOW we are therefore aware of the solidarity and are prepared to bear the consequences. In fact, it is a forced solidarity, but it is still true: there is nothing wrong with that. I would like to go one step further: charity is, in fact, unlimited, but political solidarity is limited by the wallet, in other words, by the economic feasibility. In other words, it has to be affordable and stay. In this light, it is logical that there have been changes to the AOW in recent decades. First of all, the ever-increasing life expectancy, in addition to the harsh financial times we experienced during the economic crisis from 2008. You know, that period that almost none of us financially noticed, which we didn't eat less, and where we came out in 2016 with the observation that we were just as far away as in 2006. In other words, we had and have it well in this country! But not everyone's been so lucky. There are also a lot of people who have become dependent on the food bank, families who have really felt the cramped, young people who could not find a permanent job, and older people who had to feel that the work was going to be more difficult for them. The Minister's explanatory statement refers to a study which makes it painfully clear: 40% of the elderly are seriously concerned about physical stress and 33% about mental stress. I assume that these percentages overlap somewhat, otherwise only a quarter of the population would not be concerned, but the health care or the AOW-right age is becoming more and more viable. By the way, there is also an opposite movement: a lot of people are happy that the straightjacket of the AOW no longer means that you don't work through it. However, that is a smaller group. For most people, temporisation of the increase in the AOW age is a relief. But it is not realistic, of course, to assume that the temporization solves the problems for people with heavy professions. Firstly, it is only a delay, because there is no reversal. Secondly, that heavy occupation doesn't start to press when someone turns 65. It starts a long time ago. In other words, the moment of entering the AOW is not the jumping problem, but the individual route to that AOW age depends on whether it is feasible or not. In that light, however much I give it to the individual man, the call of a number of parties to go back to the 65-year-old AOW is not a realistic perspective. Mr. Chairman. In fact, we see two lines in this bill. The first line is the short term in the timeline to 2024. This is neatly worked out in this bill. The second line has been announced, but not further developed. This is about linking the AOW age to the remaining life expectancy. The rigid link of one year extra life expectancy to one year later AOW is released. The pension agreement assumes eight months later AOW against one year longer life, if that is given to us. On this aspect, my group has a few questions. At what time, what legislative proposal can we expect this further development to take place? Has it been poured into concrete for eight months, or can it be improved, for example, in the direction of six months, or even lower? And what happens if, unexpectedly, life expectancy goes down? So what are we gonna do? Particular attention should be paid to those groups which appear to be disadvantaged by the legislative proposal, particularly in the financial field. Think of those who have lived abroad, which has shortened their build-up period. And think of the people who depend on income benefits such as WW or WIA, whose current benefit is higher than the expected AOW. The proportionality of this problem has been identified, but not developed. I thank the Minister for the answers to the written questions. This shows that 165,000 to 220,000 people will receive AOW earlier. According to the written replies, about 8% of those entitled to benefits are affected by wage-related benefits which could in principle be higher than the AOW. Based on those numbers that have been mentioned, I'm assuming 8% of about 200,000 people, so 16,000 people. Is that the number, and is there an estimate for how many of these 16,000 people now that their pay-related benefit is indeed higher than the AOW? How does the government assess the transitional period and, where appropriate, the associated arrangements? Are there any additional solutions that can be taken into account in the forthcoming legislation? Does the government still see possibilities for customization in the event of unforeseen distressing cases? Mr. Chairman. My group would like to answer the questions that have yet to be asked. But I would like to express my appreciation for the government and the social partners who are going to resolve a long-term issue. The efforts of this minister have proved indispensable, of which act! My group would also like to see the follow-up. Can the Minister outline the outline in his reply? I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the government on how, with broad support, they have managed to reach an agreement in principle on the renewal of the pension system. Since the government has adopted the draft opinion of the Economic and Social Council on the future of the pension system, the compliments also go to the Economic and Social Council. The agreement in principle makes the pension system more personal and robust, while maintaining forms of solidarity and maintaining commitments to a fund. A system which makes it feasible for everyone to obtain a healthy pension. It is good to mention from the legal history that at the 2012 Spring Agreement, in which the AOW age was increased by steps, there was a space majority in the First Chamber in favour. This was also the case with the acceleration of the AOW age in 2015, which agreed to reach an AOW age of 67 in 2021 instead of 2023. In both cases, increasing life expectancy and its budgetary aspects played a crucial role. Since 2006, D66 has considered that the legislator should restore the original relationship between the number of expected pension years in view of increasing life expectancy. So much for history. As a former chairman of the Pension Fund for Health and Well-being, I was involved in the efforts of pension funds to work together on a new system, while maintaining the good elements of the existing system, because they are there. It has become clear to me personally during that period that it is often very difficult for 66-plussers to achieve that AOW age in good health. For this reason, it is important that this legislative proposal also makes it possible to achieve a healthy finish line. We know it takes more than that. The cabinet, together with the social partners, is right, in my opinion, to focus on this sustainable employability, so that much earlier colleagues have already spoken here today about how the work could be carried out in good time, for example in other activities. Or think about things like long-term learning, constantly investing in your people. This is a major task, a major social task, for employers and for employees to implement it. I am concentrating on this bill, which is now before me today, in the course of my speech. So I'm not going to go over everything about the agreement in principle, but I'm going to focus on today's bill, because that's important enough. It is good to know and note that there is broad support in the House of Representatives for this bill Temporisation increase AOW-age. Mr. Chairman. There are two issues that I would like to highlight and which I have also asked the Minister about. That is the subject of longer work and the feasibility of the legislative proposal. I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues for their prompt response to the questions I have put. First of all, work longer. In previous debates on the subject, the D66 Group has also referred to those who want to work longer. In practice, it is conceivable that those who wish to continue to work longer under the law proposed today will be faced with more age dismissal. Now the Minister has indicated that longer working is a personal choice of the employee. When I look around here, I also see several older colleagues who are doing their work very vitally and with great pleasure. I thought you'd let others do the same. It is therefore important for employers and employees to agree on how to continue working together in the future, even after the age of AOW. Now there's another thing. It is well known that in the coming years we will face major labour market shortages in various sectors. Think, for example, of the health and education sector. Think of the people in technology, too. They're all very much needed, even for your own old age. Longer working can help meet future demand. Fortunately, in practice, we are already seeing a spectacular increase in the employment rate of people over 60 years of age. You all understand that it is not a favourable development for both those concerned and from the point of view of the labour market if those who already have a regular contract of employment and wish to continue working are sent home because they are at their retirement age. In reply to my question on this matter, the Minister states that, when evaluating the Working Law after the AOW age, he will examine whether the measures of this law have led to the intended goal, the aim of making it more attractive to work after the AOW age on the basis of a regular employment contract. I do have a supplementary question on this, both from the point of view of the person concerned, of the person concerned, and from the perspective of the scarcity in many sectors of the labour market. My question to the Minister is: what possibilities does the Minister have if it turns out that older workers who wish to continue working are still faced with age dismissal? Secondly, the feasibility. We cannot pay enough attention to the implementation. It is known that people's income may change as a result of the temporalisation of the AOW. It is important that people have time to prepare for income change. This is perhaps all the more true in the case of income losses in a specific situation; some colleagues have already spoken about this. This may occur in persons with a wage-related benefit such as an invalidity pension. In the answer to my question on this matter, the Minister points out that timely announcements are important. People can then prepare for income change. The Minister states that persons reaching the AOW age between 2020 and 2024 will be contacted individually by the Social Insurance Bank in the coming months. The Minister admits that this letter sets out the consequences of the legislative proposal in the individual situation. But it is important to know how this information is going to be provided, because we all know that letters are often sent that are not read or understood at all by those involved. I come up with a personal anecdote about this. I come from an agricultural company in Limburg. I remember when I came home in college, my parents used to ask me if I wanted to go through the letters they had received with them, because they found them very difficult to understand. These were letters from the Land Planning Commission, letters from the waterboard, letters from the Rabobank and the like. When I became a dike dike, it was already some time ago at the watership Brabant Delta had not changed much to my surprise. There were written letters which were not easily understood by those concerned. But in the meantime, as chairman and director, I was in a position where I could steer it myself, and I have, Minister. As a dike dike, I have only signed letters which were easy to read, which contain understandable language, and in which it was clear to the recipient what was meant. After all, we all know that too often in the Netherlands there is too much difference between the clear legislation on paper and the execution and the letter that people eventually receive. There's a second observation to it. I'm allowed to volunteer in my own municipality of Breda. In doing so, I accompany households who often have to deal with very low incomes and where such letters from official bodies also fall on the doormat. I help these people to understand the letters that the governments and institutions provide. That's why I have a follow-up question to the Minister. It's like this. Is the way in which social insurance is communicated by the Social Insurance Bank............................................................................................................................................................ How is this assessed in advance, so that we do not get surprises in practice? Mr. Chairman. Finally, one more question about the role of the Tax Administration. There are several bodies that will play an important role in implementation. They were also rightly asked to take a test on the execution. I've been asking questions about this. The answer on the Tax Administration indicates that the change is technically feasible for the Tax Administration, but that they can only give a final judgment when there is insight into the portfolio of 2024 and subsequent years. That raises a question for me, Minister. Given how important this good execution is for citizens and those involved, I wonder what the Tax Administration actually means when he writes this down. I like clear questions. I would like to ask the Minister whether or not the Tax Administration will be able to implement this bill in an orderly manner? This was my first-term input. To sum up, as you have seen, my questions are mainly about implementation. I've explained to you why I think that's so important. I look forward with interest to the Minister's reply.
