ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin, as usual, with oral Question Time. Today we have three questions. The first question is from Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I warmly welcome. The question is about maintaining the rule of law during actions by farmers and climate protesters. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The Party for Animals is a great and warm supporter of the right of demonstration in the Netherlands. On 27 September, 35,000 people were here in The Hague to draw attention to the need to take further action on climate change. They had to walk a decimated circle from the mayor, because the public shopping should not be hindered by the action. On October 1st there was a big farmer protest in The Hague, where we saw that countless tractors came across the highway. And then the Party for the Animals thinks: that is not really allowed, with a tractor on the highway, but fine, give people their right to demonstrate. However, on 7 October, Extinction Rebellion's actions in Amsterdam started with climate activists who had also set up a blockade. There we suddenly saw that where the farmers were allowed to ride with tractors on the highway and that they came with more tractors than the mayor had agreed, the activists in Amsterdam were carried away, so people wondered: hey, is there a difference between the right of demonstration of one and the right of the other? Then it got worse, because on October 11th there were again climate protesters on the leg in Leeuwarden. They had properly requested their protest, just a proper demonstration. They had to turn around, because farmers came in unsolicited with tractors to occupy the province house. Not only did the climate protesters have to turn around, but the farmers also got their way, which makes people wonder: do we live in a tractor state? And it got worse after that. My question to the Minister of Justice is: what does it do with the feeling of justice in the Netherlands? Is there any arbitrariness when it comes to maintaining the rule of law? I know it is a power vested in mayors, but I have heard this minister say that he attaches great importance to the sense of justice in the Netherlands. Looks like I'm getting that back from people, too... that there's a difference in which group is claiming his right to demonstrate and which one isn't. Then it got worse. We have seen this in Groningen, where there has been real violence. I assume that will be investigated and the police, together with the D.A.'s office, will prosecute the person who committed crimes there. But then it remains to be seen that under pressure of threat several provincial leaders have withdrawn the plans they had previously agreed on within a short time, which makes people wonder: if I want to get what I want, do I have to drive a tractor to the board?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Demonstrating law is a great asset in the Netherlands, and it must be able to be exercised as effectively as possible by those who wish to demonstrate in the Netherlands. An important tool for the application of the powers of the mayors when it comes to demonstrations can be found in the publication entitled Demonstrate "Almost Holy." The title says so. By the way, it is a publication that the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations sent to all mayors in 2018, but it dates back to 2013 on the occasion of the inauguration of the King. The publication was prepared in a collaboration between the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the municipality of Amsterdam. The mayor makes an assessment of a possible demonstration or manifestation. In doing so, he involves the possibilities and impossibilities in a municipality, and, if necessary, gives regulations and restrictions. This is to protect health, in the interests of traffic and also to combat or prevent disorder and insecurity. In practice, therefore, the mayor makes arrangements with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the so-called "supervisory triangle." It therefore depends on how the situation develops and how the local authority uses the powers. There were a number of substantial differences between the demonstrations in The Hague and those in Amsterdam. The demonstration of the farmers two weeks ago in the municipality of The Hague was notified in advance to the municipality. There was also permission for a demonstration on the Malieveld. The road safety of the other participants was also really taken into account. In Amsterdam, however, the climate protesters at the municipality had announced that they would permanently block the Stadhouderskade at the Rijksmuseum for an indefinite period of time for cycling and car traffic and to occupy part of the public space for an indefinite period of time. The local triangle in Amsterdam stated in advance that this location was not allowed because of the inconvenience and impact of blocking that location, because it is a disaster route. On the proposal of the triangle to move the blockade demonstration to the rear of the Rijksmuseum, on the Museumplein, the demonstrators refused to respond. You can see that there are all kinds of elements here that can make situations different and not very comparable. So there is no question of legal inequality. Finally. The mayor shall be accountable to the city council for the exercise of powers by the mayor. I shouldn't go there as a minister. This also means that I have reservations about these specific situations in Amsterdam and The Hague respectively. It's a local matter. I would also like to say briefly that if criminal offences are committed, there is, of course, investigation by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, whether they are carried out in the context of an authorised demonstration or in the context of a demonstration that was not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	I thank the Minister for his statement. I am concerned that the Minister is actually staying away from the most painful points. It is true that the mayor, if he wishes to exercise his right of demonstration, must consider whether it fits into the legal system and whether it does not create any dangers. It is true that it is up to the mayor to decide to prohibit or intervene in an action. But now the Minister is only talking about Amsterdam. And I think in The Hague, the mayor said, "You may come with your tractors, but it may be 75." There were a few more. This makes people wonder: Hey, in Amsterdam it was forbidden and the activists are actually carried away, according to the ban, but in The Hague it was forbidden, and nothing happens there. We've seen footage of police officers here in The Hague saying, "Don't put those bottles away," because we're trying to hide the fact that you're actually drinking here, and you can't. Nor does the Minister go into the situation that subsequently arose, where farmers in Leeuwarden, for example, have blocked the province house with their tractors. I wonder if that was allowed. I don't think so. They occupied the province house and said: we are not leaving until we have got what we want. That's what happened. In no time, the deputy there said: I withdraw those nitrogen rules. He signed it a few days earlier. So people are wondering: do I have to come with tractors to get what I want? I would like the Minister to take that up for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	Let me start by saying that I have just outlined the situation as it was before and during the protest in Amsterdam, in relation to the protest in The Hague. I explained that the mayor in Amsterdam really had to do with very different circumstances than the mayor in The Hague. On the question of whether the local triangle intervenes in a permitted demonstration, and if so, how, for example, if it has been said that there would be only so many tractors and it turns out that there are many more, I have explained that that is a decision of local authority. Firstly, that is a discussion between the local triangle, i.e. the district attorney, the police and, in particular, the mayor, and then the city council. Then I come to the second point. I have also indicated that if there are criminal offences during a demonstration, they are always investigated. You yourself were able to read this morning that the Public Prosecutor's Office is certainly doing this in the context of the fact that, as far as we could see on the footage, a door was forced by force in Groningen. Finally. Your question was whether you should now come up with a specific means of reaching your point. No. Of course not. We live in the rule of law here. This is a rule of law which is also very transparent and where we properly justify what we do with each other. Both government and interest groups do that. So it is not true in our country that if, as in this case, you have a large device, you are right about that. That image certainly didn't come into being with me either. I can also assure you that, as far as I am concerned, this would run counter to the principles of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	I still have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	No. You have nothing left, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	Then I'm about to ask the interrupt microphone one last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	Yeah, I know. You're gonna stand there again. That's how I know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	Last weekend 130 climate activists were arrested at the Blauwbrug in Amsterdam, yesterday in Groningen 3 farmers. I actually have two very simple questions for our Minister of Justice and Security. Does he agree with GroenLinks that the right to demonstrate in the Netherlands applies equally to everyone, whether you are a climate activist or a farmer? That's my first question. My second question is whether the Minister agrees with me that criminal law also applies equally to everyone, whether you are a climate activist or a farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u12	Yes, and on the second question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u13	I am pleased that this can be done so briefly, but Mr Van den Berge is a little confused, I see. He didn't expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u14	I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u15	Okay. That's it. Second question, eh, because then GroenLinks is no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u16	I'm just happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u17	That's a bit of a glow to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u18	D66 understands very well, of course, that the farmers in this country want to demonstrate. Fortunately, that is a right in this country, but, of course, threats and violence are unacceptable. It simply cannot be the case in a rule of law that farmers run down fences with tractors, so that people are in danger. Nor can it be that doors of provincial houses are being flattened or that a hay cannon is being used against cops. I have to say, I thought the cabinet was a little quiet. I therefore ask the Minister why it took so long for this violence to be condemned. Why this hesitant attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u19	I don't know if I can be accused of a hesitant attitude. I was in your Chamber yesterday afternoon as part of a legislative consultation. But apart from that, I would like to say out loud that violence is out of the question, even in the case of demonstrations. I also said it six months ago, in connection with the objectionable occupation of stables in Brabant: we do not accept self-direction, and violence is unacceptable, whether in the context of an official demonstration or an unofficial demonstration. What is going to happen in a specific, individual case in this case is a criminal case, as you have read this morning, and we must leave it to the Public Prosecutor and the police. That's how our rule of law works. This is what we need to realize. If a few, or a few, behave badly in a demonstration, we in principle appeal to those individuals for their individual misconduct. The many people who, in my view, have so far simply behaved normally at a demonstration cannot be charged with the misconduct of a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u20	Second question, Mrs Van den... Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u21	Den Boer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard the minister talk about the rule of law. If criminal offences are committed, arrests must also be made. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether there have been arrests and, if so, how many. Were there any fines? Can he describe the arrests and fines for the offences committed? What crimes have been committed? I would ask him to give us an update prior to the nitrogen debate that will take place next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u22	I can only say that there have been some arrests. There may be more arrests. They then result from the fact that there is a serious suspicion that people have behaved criminally inadmissible, as part of a demonstration. That is all I am going to say, because, as you know, it is precisely in our rule of law with the separation of powers from the Public Prosecutor's Office that we continue to do so. But at least some arrests have been made. I keep emphasising it: if there are some who behave badly at a demonstration, the Public Prosecutor will naturally oppose it. The Public Prosecutor's Office assesses that on its merits and considers whether there is evidence of criminally relevant facts there. But we should not then charge that to the whole of the demonstration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mrs. Ouwehand, there you are again!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u24	I'm back. I had a few more questions. I've noticed it, too. Look, the Party for Animals doesn't have to let the Cabinet rally over rogue demonstrations, but I notice that the Minister is now very lenient. We would also like to see such an attitude when it comes to people who stand up for the general interest of, for example, a healthy climate or animal welfare. What also struck me is that the Minister did not ignore the arbitrary nature of the situation. I understand that he refers to the mayors, but can the Minister at least acknowledge that The Hague was much more flexible to farmers than Amsterdam to climate activists? Does he not recognise that there is an impairment of the sense of justice in the Netherlands, of which he himself says that it is very important to watch over that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr President, you will forgive me if I repeat what I said earlier, but I promise I will do it staccato. There were substantial differences between the situation in Amsterdam and that in The Hague. In The Hague, prior permission was given for a demonstration at the Malieveld. That location is also suitable for that purpose. In Amsterdam there was the warning in advance: "You should not do this. This is also a disaster route in Amsterdam, but you can still demonstrate at another location nearby." These are fundamental differences. Next, it is up to local authority to deal with these fundamental differences properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u26	Second question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u27	In The Hague, the mayor had also explicitly said: 75 tractors and no more. So the essential difference the Minister is talking about is that one group had tractors and the other group didn't. If the Minister refers to Groningen, I find it too easy. I fully assume that all the crimes committed there will be properly prosecuted, but Groningen was the province that kept its back. Nor does the Minister have the courage to express his opinion about the deterioration of the legal feeling that has arisen, in the sense that the administration in Drenthe, Overijssel, Gelderland and Friesland has indeed caved in because of the threat of these tractors. I really think it's a little weak when the Minister lets that go...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u28	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u29	...and doesn't respond to the sense of justice that has been compromised here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u30	That's an insinuation about the county board. We have in the Netherlands well-functioning elected provinces. I do not think it is right for the provincial authorities to suggest here now that I have heard the Member say 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' say 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' say 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' say 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' say 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' say 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand' say 'Ouwehand' or 'Ouwehand'. That is the final point. And then the first point: I think there is a substantial difference between the situation in which you were given prior permission by the mayor for a demonstration and then that demonstration appears to be bigger because more people applied, and the situation in which it was said in advance: "Listen, you should not go there to demonstrate. You will not be allowed to do so, but we have another place." That is the essential difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u31	It is good that Mr Ouwehand calls for attention to derailments in the demonstrations by farmers. There's no denying them. What strikes me is that the farmers' communities themselves are talking about this in a disapproving sense, however much I must say that many farms, farmers' families, the water is also on the lips. It is good that the Minister states: demonstration is demonstration; it is treated equally. But I still think there are some differences. I would like to know from the Minister how he evaluates these demonstrations when he compares them, for example, with burglary or burglary serving animal welfare in a farm, where the animals are in the middle of the night...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u32	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u33	...are frightened and hunted and a complete terror is being waged. Is that the same in the Minister's eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u34	I think that's a whole different book from the Criminal Code. We are indeed talking about intruders, possible intimidation and more of that sort of thing. That is a completely different chapter; let that be clear. Again, the starting point is: there is freedom of demonstration. Mr Bishop has rightly pointed that out. This freedom is sometimes sacred, as was clearly stated by the government a few years ago. Then, in practice, we will see that there may be situations of public order that need to be assessed differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u35	First of all, I have a very warm heart for the farmers. I understand the concerns they currently have about the future of their business and the uncertainty associated with it. I live in Groningen myself. Also with me were tractors at the door, literally. Yesterday, too, borders were crossed. Think of violence against drivers and intimidation towards policemen and relief services. I don't approve of that violence. Luckily, I see that disapproval is happening among the farmers themselves. I can only hope that the farmers, the provinces and the government will find each other again in the conversation. I come to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u37	When it comes to permission for demonstrations, the competent authority is local.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u38	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u39	My question is as follows. It was known that demonstrations were to take place throughout the country yesterday. Has there been any form of national coordination or coordination? Were the local authorities well aware of what was in store for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u40	There are always well-coordinated consultations in such and similar situations. The fact that there are still some criminally relevant offences or violations of criminal law is, of course, sad, but that is what the Public Prosecutor's Office is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you.
