ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the debate on the climate package. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State. I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD. We haven't agreed on the number of interruptions, but I would ask you to be a little more cautious. Once again, it is about the quality of the interruptions and not so much about the quantity. Mrs Zegerius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been a long process, but today we are finally talking about the climate package. It was a process that I would have preferred to have seen shorter and simpler, if only because it has created a lot of uncertainty for people at home. At the same time, it has not been easy to put together a package of measures that actually bring our goal closer, namely to try to contribute wisely and responsibly to the Dutch climate goals and to leave our country as far as possible for generations after us. With this package, we're gonna do it. We're preparing the Netherlands for the next 30 years. The VVD is happy that we are going to do this in a manageable and affordable way; that's what the VVD was about. We want to keep our agreements, but in such a way that we don't have to throw away our way of life. And it doesn't have to be; that proves the package we're talking about today. The government doesn't have to decide how often you eat meat, when you trade in your car, or how high your heating is. Mr. Chairman. Within these frameworks, the VVD has participated in the package of measures. For us, it was very important that people are positively stimulated at times when they have a choice, for example when it comes to making their home more sustainable or buying a new car. We want people to be supported where the government can and we are monitoring that people are not being rushed into unnecessary costs. That is the bar through which we have laid down the measures. It is especially important for the people at home whether they can continue to drive their cars and what needs to be done with their homes. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the car.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u3	I'd just finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u4	That was a sentence and I started a new block. So it's up to you, Mr. Chairman, but I'd like to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u5	Would you like to ask me something, Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u6	I wanted to ask about the cars, but I think the next sentence was about the cars. So I'm just gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u7	Okay, Mr. Chairman, so I'll bring up the car. People at home want to be able to travel safely, quickly and easily from door to door. As far as the VVD is concerned, we're not going to interfere with this freedom. Nor do people at home want to be forced to trade their petrol cars for an electric. We are confident that the electric car will dominate our roads more and more in the coming years. More and more people find an electric car interesting and it's nice if these cars become available to them as well. For this reason, we support the promotion of electric cars, but we are not going to bully people into a Tesla. So we do not want to increase charges for people who are still filling and not loading. With the original proposals made at the end of last year, the driver would have been pretty screwed. We were lucky enough to prevent that. There will be no increase in the mrb, no increase in the bpm and no increase in the excise duty on petrol. The same applies to the innovation surcharges. They're off the table. At the same time, the VVD finds it so fair that people who drive electric, also pay for the infrastructure we all use. So it is good that we are going to investigate how we can arrange this with each other in the future. As far as the VVD is concerned, that will not be with a rush tax, because not everyone has the choice to leave home until 9.30 p.m. As far as the VVD is concerned, the tankers are not going to pay for the loaders. I would like to invite Mr Klaver to his interruption, because I am going to the house owner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u8	Let's do the block of cars first. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u9	What kindness, Mr. Chairman. I hear the VVD say that we shouldn't impose anything on people. We don't have to bully people out of their cars and so on. What struck me was that the Car Letter II was being broken open. For people who started leasing an electric car last year with the idea of 4% addition, this also means that it will be doubled. In substance, there are good reasons why this should be done, but I do not think it is a testament to a reliable government to open it up to existing cases. I expected that from about everyone here, but not from the VVD. Can you explain why you chose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u10	That is indeed an annoying measure for the people who had counted on a few tens. It's gonna be a little more than a couple of tens now. We think that can be explained well if you look at the advantages that people who drive an electric car still have compared to people who drive a petrol or diesel car. As a petrol driver, you often lose a few hundred euros a month for a small car when you add the fuel. The difference remains so great that we do encourage electric transport in this way. But Mr Klaver is absolutely right that it is not a very pleasant measure. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u11	Okay, that's not a very pleasant measure. So let's see what else we can do about this measure. In the end, this is about a reliable government as far as I'm concerned. We were together not so long ago in the Lower House and then in the Upper House to defend the Climate Act. The whole idea was that as a country, as a government, we should not have a yo-yo policy. It'll happen now. If you made a commitment last year, sometimes for five years, your burden suddenly becomes twice as high. I find that really irresponsible, to be perfectly honest. I really hope that the VVD will consider solutions to change this after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u12	It is true that, in the context of a sensible climate policy, we sometimes take measures that are difficult to explain, even when it comes to the reliability of the government. We had a debate here in the Chamber last week, for example, on the prohibition of coal. There are coal power stations that have only been open for a few years and yet we have said together: no, we are going to phase that out anyway. Fortunately, I have seen support for this from GroenLinks, for example. That too is a difficult story and there you will see how you can limit those negative effects as much as possible with the best possible story to explain why we do so. And so is this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u13	I quote: "The mileage tax does not work. We were, are and remain against mileage tax. It's not fair." A week ago this was on the website of the VVD. Meanwhile, it's been sneak away and the VVD says: billing is definitely an option and we're going to investigate that. Knowing the VVD, it's just gonna come of it. What kind of deception is that, a scam, a voter deception?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u14	Nothing sneaky. Mr Klaas Dijkhoff has explained in various media what is on the table today. Three variants will be calculated for the next cabinet formation to see how we can ensure that in the long term, in the future, people who drive an electric car and pay almost nothing for it will also contribute to the costs we have for the infrastructure. We in the VVD have made this point quite clear: as far as we are concerned, the costs for people who drive a petrol car or diesel car do not go up. That's it. We're gonna see what comes out of that investigation now. There's nothing mysterious about that. It's rather a very good story ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u15	Knowing the VVD is going to be that it's all just coming from it, charging. Mrs Yeşilgöz said earlier in her speech: yes, this package will make climate policy manageable and affordable. Could she perhaps explain that, because we see 240 pages of climate action? I'd say it's easy to eat! And how is it affordable? 'Cause there's no billing at all. During the presentation of the Climate Agreement, Minister Wiebes said that this transfer will only be made at the end of this year. How can you say that it will be affordable? If it depends on driving a bill, it becomes anything but affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u16	Mr Kops just started his interruption with "knowing the VVD will be so." In the cabinet's plans it is very clear that forms of payment according to use are being worked out for the next cabinet formation. So that is up to the parties who will be sitting at that table. That's what the voter's about. That's not what the VVD's about. The VVD and Klaas Dijkhoff have made it clear that they will also have to look into this in the home, in our own constituency, in our own group and in the party. It will then be in the election programme. We will enter into this discussion with the party. The cabinet then conducts research and in the new cabinet formation that will come along. I am so glad that Mr Kops is asking for that affordable and manageable. On Twitter today and yesterday I got some sneering in the vein of "the VVD will start again about affordable and manageable." Sure we're gonna do that. What the cabinet is doing today is giving meaning to the content of affordable and manageable. What's on the table right now is clearly pleasable. We have 31 years to make sure that we prepare our country step by step for the future, to ensure that the generations after us also have a nice and beautiful country. That's what's easy. No one has to get rid of the natural gas from today to tomorrow. No one has to be forced to remodel his house with thousands of euros that he has to get out of his own back pocket. And I also welcome the demand for affordability. That's what I'm about to come up with with the owner of the houses. The cabinet said clearly on 13 March 2019: thank you for the draft plans of the tables, but we see that people's accounts can be lowered at home and business and industry can take a higher bill. That's designed here. I will come to that later, but you can see that, for example, because the tax on the energy bill is reduced by an average of €100. I'm happy about that. That is a great deal and that gives meaning to the words affordable and manageable. I hope that these terms will be used very often here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u17	That's bullshit, of course. Next year, on average, the energy bill will go down by €100. Yes, after this cabinet raised the energy bill by an average of €334. That's nothing but a very limp cigar out of your own box! That's tricking people at home. That can't be true! What do you mean, affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u18	I think Mr Kops is confusing a number of things here. We are dealing here with taxes, while the energy bill is also shaped by the market price. What we are doing here is reducing the tax for next year by an average of €100. That's a big drop. I'm happy about that. We also ensure that it will not rise the following year. That sounds like a good story to me. That's where I can start my next block, about the property owner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u19	It was just about the billing. It was stated that the VVD will look into it at the next election. Then that party will act like what's in place is non-committal. But the whole idea of the Climate Agreement was that we were going to record for ten years what we were going to do, so that the Netherlands has certainty. This is actually said: after the next elections, we have to see if there is really going to be any road charging. When you say that about the billing, you say the same about the other measures. I always thought it was about trying to capture something for the long term, and that is why we sought broad support in society and in parliament, so that we can give certainty to the Netherlands. Now everything's being called into question. I understand that it can all change after the next election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u20	With the Climate Act, which we submitted here together with eight parties, we have established a dot on the horizon. That's the long term, that's what you want to go to. Then here we are working on the plans until 2030 and 2050, for how we are going to shape things. Mr Klaver will agree with me that we are dealing here with innovations and developments that we cannot fully design today for the next 31 years. What we want here and what the cabinet fortunately is going to do is to calculate these three variants and see what they mean and whether they are feasible, feasible and wise. Then we know what wisdom is for the Netherlands. I think Mr Klaver very much supports that. That is what we have done with Mr Klaver's CO-taxation plans. It's a good thing we know that it would cause road leaks, cause job losses. We're not gonna do that. Here you just want to know which variant is best for the Netherlands. We know that from investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u21	Something else is being said: we still have to make a political choice as to whether or not this is possible. If you say: we're going to charge, but we want to see what the best variant is, that's something other than saying: it may just be that it doesn't come at all. This is a very serious point. It is a symbol of why climate policy has not worked in the last 30 years. Set a course and hold it! If the VVD doesn't want that bill riding, it can, but let the VVD be as honest as the PVV and just say that. If you write down now: there will be a taxi ride and you will hear in a number of years in any form, then that should really be done. Then you shouldn't leave it hanging over the market that the VVD may not choose it after the next Lower House elections. That is not what the climate agreement was for. If you do that with road pricing, there will be all kinds of other parties who will say: well, if that happens with road pricing, it will happen with all kinds of other measures. And then you don't have a deal anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u22	Mr Klaver does not have to look for what is not in it. The VVD is very clear about what it wants. We welcome the fact that we are considering which variant would work. I said very clearly that the VVD does not want a rush tax, for example. There's not a word of Spanish in there, because we don't want that. We have also said: it is up to us to look at this with the VVD and with everyone who feels connected to our party. That should be in an election programme. It is for the benefit of the next cabinet formation what that will look like. Whether the VVD is there or not... I am very honoured that colleagues here think that we are sitting at the table anyway, but that is really up to the voter. Then we're gonna see each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u24	I'd like to go to the owner's house. The property owner is also well off with the package that is now there. And one important point for the VVD really comes: the heat fund. That's a fund that's gonna help property owners make their homes more sustainable. We have proposed this for a reason, because in our opinion it is not acceptable and affordable to impose all kinds of obligations on homeowners without any help. The cabinet makes available 50 million to 80 million per year for this heat fund until 2030. Complementary to private resources, this could grow to a funding portfolio of more than one billion to 4.5 billion euros. So people can finance any improvements to their homes without costing them extra money. I would ask the Cabinet to take into account that the fund can also be used for companies that want to offer heat as a service, so that people do not have to take out a loan. Then there's the taxes on the energy bill. I have just said that next year it will be reduced by an average of €100 for a household. The increase in the following year is not going to happen. I think it is quite right that the cabinet should pay extra money for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u25	In the package that lies here, I have the most concerns about the ordinary people at home. Of course, the heat fund isn't gonna help if you rent a house and your landlord doesn't isolate the house. Then the gas price and the energy bill go up. Does the VVD agree with me that if you want to do it in a fair way, more is needed to protect the tenants, who can't do anything about this themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u26	I fully understand Mr Asscher's concerns. The housing corporations must, of course, do a lot of work. The heat fund is open to everyone, but I understand the concern about this. This is one of the reasons why the cabinet wants to reduce the tax on the energy bill by €100. If nothing happens to your house, I'd be very sorry. That is not what is in the package. There are also strong agreements towards the corporations. Even if nothing happens to your house, we'll make sure your energy bill doesn't rise. But I share Mr Asscher's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u27	A little sharper, though. I'm talking about the situation where you, as a tenant, live in a poorly insulated house and your landlord doesn't put a heat pump in it. That landlord could be a corporation, but that could be a private one. In the agreement or in the package, I don't see anything that would help the tenant. If it is a poorly insulated house to which you smoke a lot of gas, the energy bill goes up by hundreds of euros. That's not fair, is it? That's not fair, is it? If you understand that concern, we must now instruct the Cabinet to take measures to better protect this group. You have taken good care of the expensive owners, but this concerns thousands of people in the Netherlands who see the gas bill rise and who can't even do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u28	The private landlord can also claim the heat fund. That's clearly in the papers. In the plans and in the package as a whole, you can see that the low and middle incomes actually benefit from this. This has really been taken into account by ensuring that the reduction of €100 on the tax on the energy bill ends up where it should end up. On average, this means that people will notice that reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u29	What is happening here, I think, is completely inadequate. I've seen the purchasing power picture and the big story. I've seen part of the tax increase reversed. I am now asking a specific question that lives with a lot of people at home. Those aren't just tenants, by the way. Also buyers of a often poorly isolated corporation house who can barely afford to pay for that property have this care. The example is that your landlord doesn't isolate. What are you supposed to do with the idea that your landlord could have gone to the heat fund? There's no incentive in that. The tenant's screwed. These are hundreds of euros. My question to the VVD is: if the principle that people at home do not have to bear the risks is serious, then together we must instruct this cabinet to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u30	In these plans and in the package, attention is given to both low incomes and middle incomes. This is evident from the transfer of funds, including the provisional plans for the end of December. It has improved considerably on parts. On 13 March, the cabinet said that people should have a lighter bill at home and that industry could pick up a heavier bill. That's designed here. The moment you buy a house that has been owned by a housing corporation and that is very poorly isolated, you can claim such a heat fund. This will help and support you in making your home more sustainable, for example with insulation. It happens in such a way that you don't notice it at your expense. It's "living expenses neutral." That is an official word that will soon become very important for many Dutch people. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u31	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u32	Finally. Immediately very sharp, and also politically: perhaps the coalition thinks that the opposition has been hired to applaud. That's not true. The support of the opposition parties and the Labour Party depends on the fact that it is not only attention, macro images and the fantastic concept of housing costs neutral, but that there will be solutions for the people at home for whom you, the VVD, are going to increase the gas bill. If those solutions do not come, you can whistle to the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u33	I would never think that Mr Asscher is standing here just to applaud. I started my first reaction to his first interruption with the fact that I recognize and share his concerns. I'll be right back to a block about the industry. I know that the PvdA and Mr Asscher have also been very concerned to ensure that those thousands of jobs remain here. Those are the same people we were just talking about. We're not talking about all different people. We are trying to make sure that the package we lay down not only achieves the goals, but also that every Dutchman can participate. That's what's in front of us. I therefore hope that the opposition will look at it that way. That's what I'm defending here. I say defend because I really think it's a balanced package. With this you will achieve both the goals, and you will ensure that all Dutch people we have been concerned about have been able to participate in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u35	I'm going through with it, Mr. Chairman. People like to make a contribution to leaving our country well, but not on their own. There must be a balance between what they do and what the industry, the largest polluter, contributes. In the package that we now have, companies are also going to pay for their fair share. In fact, because of the way in which it has now been designed, a CO tax on the more emissions that companies can avoid, we are actually reducing CO emissions and, I say this in the direction of Mr Asscher, for example, we are keeping the companies and therefore the jobs here in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Finally. In the opinion of the VVD, nuclear energy is a clean and reliable option for the future energy mix. It is very good that this option is not put aside in advance by the cabinet. I look forward to discussing this further in the debate on the role. Mr. Chairman. With this package, we will work to prepare our country step by step for cleaner life and work, but in a way that we will seize the opportunities that this transition offers, for our economy and for our prosperity. So we can move forward in the coming decades with the support we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u36	Could you perhaps explain how industry is going to make its fair contribution and what it looks like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u37	On top of what they pay for European taxation, the ETS we have there, industry will also pay in the Netherlands for the part of the emissions that they could have avoided but not avoided. Let me also say, for the sake of completeness, that I have not yet mentioned what is in the cabinet's plans which they announced on 13 March. The ODE, storage of renewable energy, previously paid for 50% by Dutch people at home and 50% by industry, now has a different distribution, giving the industry a heavier share. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u38	That whole choice that was made for a CO levy has a zero return. This means that these companies are not going to pay any CO tax at all. The PBL says that it is so effective that it has no tax revenue at all. So these companies aren't gonna pay anymore. As far as the ODE is concerned, these companies are going to receive massive subsidies from the government. It adds up to 1 billion in 2030, says the Planning Office for the Environment. They're going to contribute 550 million to that fundpot themselves. Doesn't that mean that they're still net recipients, that society is still going to pay for those big companies, for that big industry? What's fair and balanced about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u39	Mr Klaver says that the CO levy could have a zero return. I hope so. That's the idea. This means that companies have become more sustainable. This means that companies have achieved their CO reduction. I think that's what we're doing here. We are working on a climate package with only one goal: CO reduction in the Netherlands. If companies don't realize that, they'll have to pay that money, that tax, that fine. Anyone can call him whatever he wants. That's right. But I sincerely hope, when we follow this up with each other and monitor it here, that that money doesn't come in at all. This package is not aimed at the government ripping in money. It is aimed at achieving the CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u40	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u41	In March, a letter was written by the cabinet. It said that citizens and SMEs should not pay for subsidies from large industry. If I now read the government plans and the payments of the Plan Bureau, I see that the SDE+ and the SDE++ are up to one billion in 2030 and that these big companies, the big industry, are only going to contribute 500 million. This means that we are still giving net subsidies to these companies and that they do not pay for them themselves. Of course, everything is to do to reduce CO, but we also had a problem with each other to make sure that these big companies pay their fair share. I don't see that in the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u42	That's just not true. Last year, industry alone paid half a billion dollars to ETS, European tax. Then, in line with the government's commitment on 13 March, the whole of the ODE, the storage of renewable energy, which was first raised fifty-fifty, has been completely changed by people at home and by industry, making the industry take on a much heavier bill. On top of that, it's said that if you don't last and you don't keep your end of the deal, you're gonna pay too. I know what Mr Klaver is proposing here, but his plans have been calculated. From the passing on of his plans by independent agencies I didn't count on it, so we can all rest assured that those pass-throughs would be correct...................................................................................................................................................... I............... I............................... I.......................................... That's just not how we're in it. I want to keep the jobs here, I want to keep the money here for sustainability and I want us to achieve the CO2 reduction. With this balanced package, we do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u43	You may respond to this, Mr. Klaver, and I shall go to Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u44	I did not ask the question for nothing, because Mrs Yeşilgöz herself brought this up. She said: it's fair, it's balanced and it's fair. She mentioned the storage of renewable energy. Those big companies, those biggest polluters, all have exemptions. They are not at all in that highest rate of the ODE; they hardly pay taxes there. This means that ultimately hospitals, schools and SMEs are still contributing to the subsidy we give to these large companies. Is that where they can reduce CO? Yes. It's beautiful. But I thought we also had an agreement, that we agreed that this big industry should contribute. That is not the case and we must be honest about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u45	The big industry contributes, and the people at home are cared for and cared for. I can imagine that Mr Klaver finds that a bit annoying, because his proposal is broken. But with what's going on here, the planning agencies show that this way you can make it happen in the Netherlands in a way that keeps the jobs here. That's what I really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u46	I would like to congratulate Mrs Yeşilgöz. For in this chord we have looked beyond sun and wind. I think it is very nice that other forms are being looked at to ensure that our energy supply is reliable and that nuclear energy, for example, is also mentioned. That is step one, because I understand that that has been quite a difficult point at that table; not everyone is happy with that. But calling it step one. My question is: how are we going to get to step two, that we are going to see whether this can really contribute to this energy mix in the near future? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u47	Thank you for the compliment, because I am very happy that nuclear energy is indeed in it. There are several steps we can take together now. We are also going to have a wide-ranging debate on nuclear energy, and I hope that we can agree on that, with Mr Stoffer of the SGP and the VVD. But you can see what it would mean to keep Borssele open longer, for example. I think it's gonna have to close after 2033. We can see what kind of research is needed to see if it can stay open for longer. We can see how we can work more together in Europe so that the Netherlands can add more nuclear energy to the energy mix. And, of course, I hope that if, within the framework of a reliable government, we can radiate that we are open to this option, there are providers who say: I would like to set up such a new nuclear power station in the Netherlands. So the point is that you also radiate in the base that you don't shut the doors, but that you want to look with common sense at all the options that can be used for the Netherlands in the context of a clean and reliable energy mix. In the case of the VVD, nuclear energy is an integral part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u48	That sounds promising, so I look forward to the debate we are about to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u49	Me too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u50	I would also like to congratulate Mrs Yeşilgöz, but that is in no way possible. Because it's obvious that big companies are being spared. We'll get back to that later. But I would like to mention one example, and these are the fermenters. The PBL has calculated that the avoided costs per tonne of CO325 are €325. In the government's plan, the upper amount in 2030 is €165. So in the plan of the VVD, €325 per avoided tonne of CO goes to manure digesters. So that's twice as much as in the plan they're proposing. That is irresponsible, and you cannot agree to it. Or can't you count?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u51	In fact, I would have expected the greatest compliment from Mr Van Raan, perhaps even greater than from the SGP, because the agricultural table is basically the one that achieves even more CO reduction than any other table; that is almost double. So instead of Mr Van Raan standing here saying, "Wow, how great that is, one of our most innovative sectors is not only going to deliver, but also takes responsibility for almost double-doing," he finds one point where he does something with a calculation. Come on, that's too bad. Actually, I'd like that compliment. Well, of course, I can pass that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u52	Well, you, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u53	Nothing's easier than talking about a whole other point. That's what Mrs Yeşilgöz does. She says that the agricultural sector wants to do more. Yeah, it makes sense. But they also say they want to catch an extra billion. What Mrs Yeşilgöz says is really nonsense. I want to get back to the point: manure digesters and those €325 per tonne avoided CO. That is far beyond the budget your party itself considers responsible. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u54	I said very faintly that I wanted to receive the compliment, but I should have passed it on to the Minister and the agricultural table. After all, the agricultural table itself said that we can do more. I think that's really cool. I also think it is very good that this has been responded and that it has been said: okay, let's see what else you can do. I just think that's a really good story. I understand that Mr Van Raan says: I do think that agriculture needs to be reduced, but it has to be done in my own way, in the way of the Party for Animals. But that's not gonna be him here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u55	Mrs Yeşilgöz just doesn't get it or doesn't want to get it. She says agriculture's gonna do more. But agriculture wants extra money for that. A billion dollars. We've established that. "I'd like to do a little more, but I want more money. Point." You can agree with that or you can't. We disagree. You do. That wasn't the point. The point is: there is a measure on €325 per avoided tonne of CO. That goes way beyond the budget you recommend. You can't agree with that, can you? Perhaps you'd like to return to it in second term? You can't keep saying it's about something else entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u56	There is a balanced package for this, both on every table and in its entirety, which I agree with in its entirety. I've been trying to explain here for almost six minutes that I think it's a good story and that I think there's a balance. Innovation, cost-efficiency, how we achieve the goals, how we ensure that all Dutch participate. So I can explain. I like the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u57	When it comes to taxing industry, it's about getting the profits and maintaining jobs. We agree on that. Now I heard Mrs Yeşilgöz critically about the transfer of GroenLinks and Mr Klaver. My question is: does she have a pass-through of the cabinet package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u58	Different forms of CO taxation have been calculated by the planning agencies and in this case by PwC, to look at road leakage and international competitiveness. The plan of the cabinet was also included. That clearly came out as balanced. You ensure that the industry lasts, but you also ensure that the jobs are not chased away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u59	I didn't ask about that PwC study, which is also very interesting. The question was: do you know a transfer of this package from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u60	Mr Asscher asks about the package as a whole, if I understand correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u61	It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u62	The whole climate package, as Mr Asscher knows, is also in the documents, and I assume that he has read them well. This autumn will be reflected in the climate and energy exploration, as we agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u63	Well, then it's a little weird when you're so high on horseback about how your proposal is so much better? The least you could do is force the cabinet to stick exactly to the variants that have been passed on. You can see that in the final package there are just different choices than in the calculated variants. I find it very strange to be so silly about parties making proposals when you have no passing on your own proposals. So I'd like to make the next appointment, in case that bill comes in October. If he's working, I'm thrilled, especially if he can keep a job. But let us now agree, if it does not work, that we will fall back on a flat-rate system, because we will not be able to meet again for another year. Would that be a fair deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u64	I was indeed critical of Mr Klaver and his plans, but I can also refer to Mr Asscher and his plans, because they were also taken into account. That wasn't too good either. I think it is a very special fascination to propose a flat-rate charge, when it must be about how to make sure that you achieve the reduction here and keep the investment and the jobs here as well. This morning we met 17 works councils right outside the door. I think Mr Asscher's colleague was Mr Moorlag there too. These works councils represent more than 50,000 people who say: this is about my job; I am not a CEO who is picked up by a driver; I want to be able to transfer my rent or mortgage every month; my job is on the way; stop talking nonsense about a flat tax, as if that does not affect us. What we want is for companies to pick up the bill, but also for them to stay here. I think that's what's ahead of us now. The transfer will be from the PBL this autumn. But we know that, if you really want to look at the international competitiveness and the road leak, you should also have external parties watching. I am very pleased that the cabinet has agreed on this. So we will undoubtedly be talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u65	Mr. Asscher, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u66	This is a difficult debate. I started by saying that if the levy works like it does now, then I'm glad, because then we'll meet the targets and you'll keep your jobs. That was ignored by Mrs Yeşilgöz in her reply, because something had to be said about the Labour Party. I'm okay with all that, but I'm afraid there's a bit of wishful thinking, maybe it won't come. So what are we gonna do? If you want to keep your commitments and make sure that the big companies participate and pay, can we agree that you will continue with a limited charge? Or does it start from the beginning? That is a specific question to which I would appreciate a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u67	I've been saying here for two years, since we've been talking about this subject, that the VVD thinks you should do what works. Whatever works, it works. We have never said "it absolutely must not be so" or "it absolutely must be so." In this case, it is a sensible CO levy. If it turns out that it doesn't work out as we see it in front of us, here we will talk about sustainability, reduction here and jobs here. I think it is a little too soon to say now: then we fall back on a model that the planning agencies say is not going to work. That flat-rate tax has risks in it. If Mr Asscher and I can agree that, at the moment when a sensible tax is not so sensible, we are going to look together to see what is wise... I want to keep the jobs here, too. That's not gonna happen. I am sure that is what Mr Asscher wants. It could just be that we're gonna come out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u68	I'm going to see Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u69	In December, the group chairman of Mrs Yeşilgöz was very strong. He said: if the alternative is to drop either the cabinet or the citizen, then I will never drop the citizen. My simple question is: do you think that is being met now? A number of examples have just been mentioned. You will only be in a poorly isolated rental house or property and also drive a diesel. Then you're gonna go backwards real hard. Are you dropping that citizen now, or are these people simply not citizens to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u70	I think that the words of Mr Dijkhoff in January said: 'I am not just signing by the cross, I am going to see what this means for the people of the country'. That is absolutely true. With the package that is now before us, the car owner, unlike the package at the end of December, is not going to die, the tax on the energy bill is going to be reduced by €100, there is a heat fund with a potential of billions to relieve and relieve people at home in order not to let them pay all kinds of things out of their own pocket. Absolutely, absolutely, the Dutchman is at the heart of this. Both low incomes and middle incomes are served. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u71	There will be no extra money to make the social rent more sustainable. I put forward a proposal for it this afternoon. The excise duties on diesel cars are rising. There are a lot of proposals that make people worse. This is also apparent from the current transfers. People with low incomes are going to pay the most. You're announcing new credit transfers. If it shows that you are dropping the citizen, which you would never do, are you prepared to adapt? We just don't see them, and they don't show up from any wire transfer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u72	I do find it strange, though, that the SP does not see that the BPM increase has been deleted, that the Marb increase has been deleted, that the excise duty on petrol has been removed, that the innovation surcharge is off the table, that the energy tax is reduced by €100 and that there is a fund of billions so that people do not have to pay it out of their own pockets. If the SP doesn't see that, then I don't know what else I could say here to... It's just on paper, isn't it? You don't have to take it from me, you can just read it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u73	I'll come back to it again. Suppose you're in that rental house with label F or label G. What good is that gonna do you? Your gas bill and your energy bill are going up. Then you can tell people that next year it will be €100 down, but that is not true at all if you are in such a draft rental house. And even so, that bill is way higher than it was a few years ago. Suppose you also have that diesel car, then driving becomes more expensive for you now and not after the next cabinet formation. Now! Those people are no use to that package you're talking about right now. I simply ask you: do you still support your words that you are dropping the cabinet before the citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u74	Not only do I support those words, but we have also fulfilled what those words mean. We have shown here together with the cabinet what it means to remove all these ridiculous increases. Mrs Beckerman talked about increasing the tax on gas, but everything that comes out of it goes completely towards reducing the tax on electricity and reducing the tax on energy. These are the facts! I would very much like to look at the facts with the SP, but to bring in all kinds of things that don't add up is a bit of a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u75	Mrs Yeşilgöz and I had just had a little interrupting debate about an unreal price per avoided tonne of COvan €325, far beyond the limits that the VVD itself considers acceptable. I got a wild answer that was all about something else. Now a question about the larger lines. The PBL has calculated, from my point of view, page 97 of the Climate Agreement that the CO levy represents about 75% of the chance that we will achieve the targets. Now, in the words of Prime Minister Rutte, there is no alternative to this climate agreement, because we must act now. How can Mrs Yeşilgöz reconcile that with a measure with a 75% chance that it will be achieved? That is the equivalent of buying a car with a 75% chance that it does and neither does Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u76	I am going to repeat that I am proud of our agricultural sector, among other things, because it is going to deliver more. Planning agencies always use a margin of uncertainty in their calculations, but they do say: this is the margin and within this margin you can make it or not. There was already a very good chance under the previous calculations that we would make it. Now there are tables that even achieve a little more reduction and I am confident that we will achieve the reduction that we had in mind. But we do it in a way that all Dutch people can experience it and that is for the VVD... I wanted to say "at least as important," but maybe it's even more important. I want everyone to be able to experience this, and with this package, we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u77	What a shocking answer this is actually. A shocking response, because the most important thing to do is to tackle the climate crisis. The VVD is satisfied with a measure that may, with a 75% chance, achieve this for a sub-area. It's clear where the VVD is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u78	The VVD is talking about a sensible CO levy. Well, there's no such thing! Either the costs are simply passed on to the consumer by the companies or the companies are moving away with consequences for employment. In both cases, people at home are just screwed. Mrs Yeşilgöz spoke about the preservation of jobs, because that is what she is for. I'm sure I got that right. You're in favour of maintaining jobs, because you're nodding yes. Okay. But the VVD is in favour of closing five coal plants in the Netherlands. We debated this last week. As a result, at least 2,800 jobs are lost immediately. How can the VVD argue for the preservation of jobs? Soon it'll just be 2,800 people on the street. They no longer have a job and no income because of the VVD, because the VVD believes in some creatureless climate ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u79	Mr Kops says that a CO levy cannot by definition be sensible, because everything is passed on to the people at home, but I am confident that companies will not pay it at all. I am confident that companies will also achieve sustainability. So there will be no levy at all. The price is then determined not only on the basis of the costs incurred, but also on the basis of what consumers want and what the mark looks like. So I think that Mr Kops' math was a little too fast. Then there's the jobs. Mr Kops is quite right; we expressed our concerns about the closure of coal power stations in the debate last week. As part of the CO reduction, it is very wise to close them, but you have to do that step-by-step, carefully, with enough guarantees for all the people who work there, so that you can make sure that they can get back to work elsewhere and not go home without a job. Those are exactly things that I have not only talked about, but have also tabled and supported motions for resolutions. I hope that Mr Kops will support us in this, in order to ensure that all of these people find a good job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u80	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u81	Finally, Mr President. Of course, that's just bullshit. First put 2,800 people out on the street and then tell them to get a new job. How the hell are you gonna do that? The cabinet makes some coal fund available. In my opinion, this amounts to EUR 20 million, some €8,000 per person, for further training and so on. That's bullshit, isn't it? If you're 50 or 60 years old, you're only gonna work at one of those coal power stations. What do you mean, "retraining"? Have a look at yourself in that job someday to school or get a new job. You just put these people out on the street and send them straight to the UWV. Just admit it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u82	I would like to invite Mr Kops to look at the plans and not just 'put that transition in the trash' in all the debates. The works councils we spoke to this morning are all made up of people who work in the refining sectors, chemicals, steel industry. They all said to us all: listen, I want to be part of this transition; I want to be part of the innovation. That's what the Cabinet is doing. So if next time Mr Kops comes up with good ideas to make that even better, rather than just motions that say, "Do everything in the trash, it doesn't have to," we'll make sure that our country is ready for the future and that all these new jobs go to the people we're worried about together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u83	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u84	The Netherlands has a sad history of climate policy. Responsibility was laid not with polluting companies, but with the people. People paid themselves blue in green taxes. 80% of the money came to the richest, while large multinationals were kept out of the wind. Climate policy has failed in recent years. But instead of breaking up with that, the cabinet just keeps going. With this proposal, it goes again for climate capitalism, the casino capitalism of Rutte, but with some green LED lights. Albert Einstein said we can't solve a problem with the way of thinking it's caused. And yet that's what the cabinet does: business as usual. The same Rutte story in a green jacket, where many people know that they probably have to pay and we may not even reach the climate targets yet. Not sustainable, but expensive. Why does the Netherlands need a climate agreement? As far as the SP is concerned, we believe that the future can be better than it is today. This requires a climate agreement that provides security and is fair, which will make society better now and in the future. The SP would like to do so by, for example, really tackling major pollution and allowing the polluting multinationals to pay their fair share. The SP wants to invest heavily in good and cheap public transport throughout the country, so that people have an alternative. The SP wants to offer people with low and average income free insulation and sustainability of their homes, so that we achieve climate goals, create jobs and ensure that people have a better home and a really lower energy bill. The SP wants to collectively fill as many suitable roofs as possible with solar panels, so that we and not the whole country have to fill up with solar and wind farms, and ensure that we generate affordable and sustainable energy that people themselves control. This is not or is not reflected in this climate proposal. This climate proposal is slightly better than the previous proposal, but less unjust is not yet fair. The weakest point of this cabinet is that it really dares to appeal to polluting multinationals. If the climate was a bank, it would have been a long time ago. A very painful example of this is the Urgendavonnis. The cabinet does not guarantee that they comply with a court ruling. Yes. Instead, they ask people to stick foil behind their radiator and pump the tires up again. Radiator film instead of action against polluters. It's like putting out a fire with a water pistol. Is this the way to the climate agreement? The Dutch strongly support the idea of allowing polluting multinationals to pay fairly, including 59% of VVD voters. After enormous pressure, the cabinet wants to introduce a moderate CO fine, but there are more subsidies than costs. They do have to pay for households and SMEs, while on 21 December, when the draft climate agreement was presented, the firm promise was that households and SMEs would not pay for the costs. That promise is broken with this proposal. I'd like a response. At the same time, people from the cabinet are told a vega sausage. The power bill would go down, but that's not true. Next year €100 less is still €200 more than last year and for people with a poorly isolated home even more because the gas price rises. Why not opt for real reduction? The energy bill can go much further down if we ensure that people with a poorly insulated house and low or average income are offered free sustainability and solar panels. In recent years, 80% of the climate money went to the richest people. Why wouldn't we turn that around for a few years? Here too, the proposal is inadequate. It's full of semi-soft promises. The word "probably" occurs 25 times, but it is particularly likely that people themselves will have to pay heavily for the sustainability of their homes. On top of that, the cabinet does not create more, but less control. Now 70% of the tenants have to give permission for renovation, not anymore. Pay more, less control, that can't be true, can it? The SP also considers that the climate proposal is inadequate in terms of mobility. One in three Dutch people has no alternative for the car to go to work. That's where you drive your diesel. You get a fine in the form of a road ticket, a fine in the form of higher excise duties. You're not allowed in some cities. And then when you get to town, there's a cruise ship that pollutes as much as 1 million cars, but doesn't have to pay anything. Again not sustainable, but expensive. 83% of people believe that this proposal is still unclear as to what is really going to happen. The government parties are only making that worse. The VVD is right on the chest that there will be no charging this period. D66 beats on the chest that there will be a charge. But what is it? We ask for the firm guarantee that one in three Dutch who cannot go to work with them will not go backwards. Do you want sustainability or do you want to do something good for the treasury? If it is the first, where is the plan for good and affordable for the whole country? Finally, Mr President. The SP is still giving this proposal an insufficient amount. We are not in favour of climate capitalism, for a few green LED lights to lift up the Rutteliedje in which people pay and multinationals are spared. That's not sustainable, it's expensive. We do not agree with measures that undermine the basis of support. It is not with the climate cheese bowl that more questions from households are being asked, but they are making progress. That's the only way. It is time for a green and a social revolution that does not cost the population, but provides better homes, good and affordable public transport, affordable and sustainable energy, clean air and meeting climate goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u85	I think Mrs Beckerman is right to warn against the fact that the industry really has to cough up the subsidy that it can claim to green: the industry that keeps up its own pants. But I did not actually hear Mrs Beckerman say explicitly that she supports the CO levy as proposed by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u86	That is indeed a major problem, as Mr Jetten rightly says. We must ensure that households and SMEs do not bear the costs, and that is what is happening in this agreement. So it is very good that Mr Jetten is walking forward and acknowledges that. So apparently D66 doesn't support that choice either. We believe that a moderate flat tax would have been a better solution, but we also lack the ultimate justification. The current cash flow shows that the low and middle incomes are still going to pay a lot more. That is a very painful observation, and that is why we will not support this agreement either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u87	This is a climate agreement that the cabinet has concluded with hundreds of parties. There are a lot of agreements that we, as politicians, do not discuss in The Hague, because they work together. There are a number of laws that need to be passed by this Chamber and that will be crucial in meeting those climate targets. One of the laws on which we will have to judge is the CO levy for industry. There are works councils of large companies that have been calling the bell here today in The Hague and have said to us: fine that you are going to tax polluting companies, as Mrs Beckerman also wants, but do so in such a way that the jobs are not being chased out of the Netherlands. So my question is really very simple: does Mrs Beckerman also see that the CO levy for industry, as proposed today, is achieving the climate targets without driving employment out of our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u88	Now I think we're at a very important point. I think that is a very sincere point, an ideologically important one. You are, of course, ruling with one of the biggest fan clubs of capitalism, but we have to acknowledge that it is precisely that unbridled production and that it is only aimed at short-term profits that has brought us into this problem. And now that that's perhaps the most painful thing you want to do about it, you want to appeal to companies on their responsibility, and they say, "Well, I'm leaving." So little morale. That means, I think, I think it is right that you acknowledge that now, and that it seems that giving all that power to companies has failed. As a result, more is needed than simply giving more money to those companies, because that is the discourse of the past few years. I have another proposal and I hope you will listen to it. Should we not ensure that we restrict these companies much more, for example, as proposed by my colleague Maher Alkaya, with a golden share, so that employees have control and companies if we ask them to do something that makes perfect sense, namely to pay their pollution fairly, not to say 'good, then we are going to run', but to say that the workers can say 'we think this company is important and that is why we are vetoing it, because it has to stay'? That is just one proposal and I would like you to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u89	I have asked a very simple question and I get beautiful one-liners back from Mrs Beckerman. The simple question is whether she recognises, together with the trade unions and all the works councils of the big companies, which Mrs Beckerman is always defending, that there is now a proposal for a sensible CO-tax to achieve the climate targets without driving away employment. We may disagree on many elements of the package, but my simple question is: do you support the CO levy for the industry as it stands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u90	I think I do need to explain it even more clearly. I think that as long as companies have so much power that they can simply say "we will leave, if you ask us to pay our righteous share" is not enough. So, yeah, I'm in favour of a tax. And yes, it may be heavier in terms of SP. But I don't think that's all that's necessary. I believe that we should also make much more demands on companies, and I have not yet heard any response from employees by giving them much more control. Whatever I think that should be done, I would like to go a step further there, because once you acknowledge that we have come this far because we have given companies so much power, perhaps we will get somewhere that we will get some of the companies back in public hands. For example, the generation of energy, which is so important to everyone. We don't have a say in that right now. Profits disappear in deep pockets and people can't pay their energy bills anymore. So yes, I am in favour of a substantial CO levy, but I am also in favour of giving employees more control and making energy generation public again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u91	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mrs Beckerman's long answers finally recognise that this CO levy will also be supported by the SP, and I would like to think with her about how more measures can really force and tempt the business community to green up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u92	Mr Segers, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u93	I don't know if that was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u94	Well, Mr. Jetten has drawn some kind of conclusion, but you may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u95	Well, I really hope so. I quoted Einstein: we can't solve the problem with the thinking that it caused. I think you really should look at the causes of this problem. That is so much focus on short-term profits and not on the interests of society. If you acknowledge that while you rule with the biggest fan club of capital, of free companies, then we're a long way off. Then I'd like to continue talking about how we can ensure that employees are given control and that we make energy public again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u96	There has been quite a lot of work on this climate agreement by a lot of people. That was just wiped off the table in one go: we are against this climate agreement. Now we already have a bit more nuance around the CO levy: that might work out well. But there are more elements in it. If you are against the Climate Agreement, are you opposed to the ODE tax, the storage on your energy bill, to a third citizen, two thirds of companies instead of 50% citizens, 50% companies? Or does that go off the table with the same speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u97	For the people at home: I have to laugh a little. Two years in a row, you voted away this proposal from the SP. We went a lot further. Each time you said, "No, that's not necessary. That energy bill isn't rising so fast. No, don't worry." You lasted until this year, when the high energy bill literally exploded on people's front door mats. You have voted away that SP proposal time and time again. So yes, I am in favour of that proposal. I've been fighting for that for years, but we're looking at this package now. We have always said that we will not support a total package that reduces the level of support. We do not want an agreement in spite of the people, but with and above all for the people. That is not yet the agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u98	I'm just trying to keep going, because I understand you've been wronged a lot. That is very unfortunate, but in the end it comes down to measures and it just comes down to voting: are you for something or are you against it? I'm not sure exactly whether those hands in the SP box are going up or not for the ODE shift in favour of citizens. We'll see. But then the coal fund. There will be a coal fund to stimulate the employment of people who may lose their jobs as a result of that CO levy. Is the SP going to vote against that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u99	I have not been wronged. People have been wronged, for example by greatly increasing the energy bill. And now you're keeping them that vega sausage for the next year to go down $100. First of all, that's still $200 more than they paid last year. If you're in a drafty rental house, the gas price goes up. Then you don't have an energy bill that is €100 lower than this year's, but then your energy bill just goes up. That is the injustice that lies in this climate agreement. And the pot for the sustainability of your cabinet's social housing is empty, not only for 2020, also for 2021. You won't open it again until 2022. We're not gonna see any of that. So this proposal as a whole still gets an inadequate one, although we have also said that there are a number of proposals in it that make it less unjust, but not yet fair. Each passing-through shows that the lowest incomes are still going to pay the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u100	I am genuinely trying to understand what the SP is going to vote for and against. So because the energy bill went up by €200, the SP is going to vote against a tax reduction of €100 for citizens. Is that the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u101	You should almost turn the question around: why does Mr Segers stand here proud of an agreement that every passing-through shows that the people with the lowest incomes are the hardest hit? Why do you react so strongly to me instead of saying, "Hey, there's a point. I should have listened earlier, because those people are paying way too much. They don't have any certainty right now." That's what polls show. People are going backwards and we can come up with an agreement that will help them. I've just made a lot of suggestions for that. I hope you will take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u102	However, I have not yet received an answer to my question. You can blame me for anything, and you can do it. But if, after that introduction, you answer my question, we will get on with it. What are you doing with the coal fund? What are you doing with that shift from the ODE? What are you doing with the energy tax cut? What are you gonna do with that? Are you going to vote for it or are you going to vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u103	So we're in for a done deal? That's actually my question. Two years we've been working on this. And every time we came up with proposals, coalition parties said: you're early, just wait for the Climate Agreement. And now you're actually saying: it's hobby or calf, you have to vote for or against, it's done. That is actually very painful, because we have made a lot of proposals, and I hope you will want to discuss them. This agreement is not enough, as far as we are concerned. I have made a lot of proposals, and I can rename them, which must be included, so that we can reach a genuinely just agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u104	I'm not getting much further. As far as I'm concerned, it's two and one. Mrs Beckerman may say: well, there are elements in it that are quite good, but there are things I would like to have better; the good elements we support, the less good elements we do not support. Or does everything go off the table with the same wipe? But then the coal fund disappears, then the energy tax disappears, then everything good, like the ODE shift, disappears. All good elements from SP perspective then disappear from the table. The question is, then, what are you going to do when that agreement is drawn up? You can say all the time: it's a lousy deal. But it's gonna work out, there's gonna be legislative proposals, there's gonna be votes here, and then that hand has to go up or down. What are you going to do with all the proposals I have put forward to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u105	In my opinion, Mr Segers knows that we have always supported any good proposal, which makes people better off, here in the Chamber. In fact, we are about champions of proposals to ensure that low-income people benefit from climate change. We will always do the same. But what we are not going to do is now accept a complete agreement whereby people go backwards on it. We are always in favour of individual proposals. I hope that you will finally be able to find out what proposals we are making. Fortunately, you will now come back to proposals that we have made for years. We've done a lot more. I hope, for example, that you will support today's proposal that this year your cabinet will be able to make money available over EUR 78 million in order to make social housing more sustainable. Because that's where people literally live in energy poverty, who literally can't do the stove anymore because they simply can't afford it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u106	Then all the way to the end. But now we're getting somewhere. Mrs Beckerman now says: I am going to talk about the content, I am going to look at proposal, element by element. We're gonna see if we can make it better. You're here to propose. Then we're talking. Then it is not with one big sweep 'we are against this agreement'. You're gonna try to make it a better deal. That is what is going to happen, and that is what we are going to debate. So I would say: join in, join in instead of sweeping away that whole chord with one move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u107	I don't think you can do much with that. I can imagine that Mr Segers actually understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u109	We didn't just throw an agreement off the table. But we do not think that this agreement is enough. I think I've made it clear where the pain is. Mr Segers, in particular, has a supporter who also feels that pain. Tenants go backwards, people with low incomes go backwards, people with average incomes go backwards. I hope that you will still find this agreement unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u110	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u111	Mr. Chairman. If you follow the news about the climate, it's like we're dancing on a volcano. The polar ice melts faster than expected, hot dry summers have become the new normal, and there are such reports about the Dutch clouds, which are threatening to disappear. It would make you sad, because that actually affects our way of life. Can the planet feed humanity? Is there healthy air for the kids who go to school? Are we safe in the Netherlands, our country, which is largely below sea level? However, I am not gloomy but optimistic, because we are here now and the Netherlands must be able to do something about it. We must contribute and do sensible things to ensure that people are sure of a safe existence so that we can pass on the planet. That can happen at the moment when we take measures that are green, that are honest, and we no longer postpone. That is why I am pleased that we are discussing this package today. I would like to compliment the over-tired gentleman who is sitting there in box K and who had to make this out of a cockpit full of clinging toddlers, at least from the outside. But, Mr. President, I also have very serious concerns. The package, all 250 pages, also radiates a kind of wishful thinking. There's no wire transfer. It's due in October. Some of the intentions seem softer, whether it is about the mobility paragraph or the CO levy, which seems more softer than the calculated variant. I want to try to make a few things concrete. So I'd like to make the agreement that if that variant doesn't work, we're in favour of a CO tax that combines the best possible employment and climate goals. We're not gonna linger for another year and we're gonna leave that cockpit empty, but we're gonna introduce a tax that works. There's the cash-throughs, too. The second thing I would like to say, and I have greater concerns about that, is that the cabinet is talking about house-to-house neutral measures where the people at home are concerned. That's where the real worries are. As far as I'm concerned, if you come up with purchasing power tags and cost-neutral incantation formulas, you haven't answered the question as to what it means to a tenant whose landlord doesn't isolate the house. You've got an old apartment on the road. You need a lot of gas. Your bill goes up hundreds of euros. That's not fair. What does it mean for people who have bought a corporation house with extreme means, so to speak? Those were often the least energy-efficient homes. They sold the corporations first in the years 2014 to 2016. Then you can say "there's a heat fund; you can borrow it," but it's not that easy to borrow another €20,000 or €25,000 with an investment horizon of up to ten years. There is also a group of people who already receive renewable energy via the heat grid, where the price is linked to the gas price. The cabinet is going to raise that price, and that's not fair either. So I want clear assurances from the cabinet.I just asked the VVD, but then it didn't work out yet that the ordinary people at home who say "it can all be, but you're throwing up the gas price" will be compensated for, that solutions will come. This must be made concrete, and it must be made concrete quickly. Let me get this straight. I read here and there that the Labour Party will vote for it. A political remark: do not assume that. We want concrete solutions for people's concerns. You can't live in bullshit. You can't pay the gas bill with house-to-house tax-neutral bullshit. The third point concerns employment, labour. The Labour Party considers it essential that, as we move to a greener economy, this means that people have to work in a different way and sometimes even do other work, we take responsibility for that. It has been hit in the coal fund; in this respect, I would like to congratulate the FNV, which has fought hard for this. 22 million for those who found the smiling colleague Rob Jetten on the side of the road. This one's closing. Fortunately, there is now money to help people. But we gotta be honest, it's gonna hit a lot more people in their jobs. I believe that the cabinet should take measures to this end. I believe that the cabinet should come up with a plan for sustainable work this autumn, at the same time as the billing. Finally, Mr President. Eventually, in politics, you always have to look at the longer term. How can you move a society forward? How can you make sure it's just? How can you ensure that Dutch people are sure of their existence at a time of great changes? But how can you also take responsibility to protect the future, to safeguard the future, to ensure that we are sure of a bright future? As one of the two initiators of the Climate Act, we have a very clear position on this. We need to take action, and we need to do it now. The planet won't tolerate any further delay. The only way it's really gonna work is a fair way. If it's green and fair. That means putting people above multinationals at all times. The cabinet has a lot to prove there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u113	Mr President, thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating all the 150 organisations that have worked continuously for a climate agreement over the last two years. I would also like to congratulate and thank Mr Nijpels, who is here in the Chamber, for the fact that he has continued. Because that's not self-evident. I find the way in which these tables have been set up by this cabinet and the way in which the coalition has subsequently dealt with them not always bear witness to a beauty prize. Take the previous group chairman of the CDA, who in the summer was full on the organ about the climate tables, or the group chairman of the VVD, who did so around Christmas. But they've moved on. They continued to work, resulting in an agreement that was in place this spring. Thank you. The cabinet then picked that up and started talking on its own. That's what we're talking about right now. Now there's a cabinet response. A few references are made to an agreement, but there is still no agreement that can count on broad support, not social and not here in the States-General. That agreement has yet to be concluded. But I'm optimistic, because I see there's a lot in it. It should be possible. Also, compliments for what happened at the electricity table in 2030 are 70% of the electricity that we use sustainably generated tungsten and for the steps that are being taken in the area of living. I'm positive about that. I have concerns. I share Mr Asscher's concerns. We must ensure that the transition remains affordable for everyone. But in essence, the right steps are being taken there. But I'm worried. I already had an interruption debate with the VVD. What we're putting here is for the next ten years. That's not noncommittal. We cannot, as political parties, say: well, maybe it will change after the next election. We concluded an agreement with eight parties on a climate law. We said: we are going to make plans for ten years with this Climate Act; every five years we will adapt those plans and every two years we will also be able to adjust them. We did that because those fluctuations are really devastating. That is why I am so surprised at what happens in the case of mobility. That addition may well be up in the future, but why do you do it now for people who took that into account? As wrong as you think it is, you've made that decision. Jojo policy is the last thing we need. Then the fair distribution. Maybe that's my biggest concern. I believe that with what is now in place, there is no fair distribution between citizens and businesses. I was already charging companies 550 million a year to contribute to the ODE levy. That's good. They would receive the same amount of drawing rights from the SDE++. But at the same time, the PBL writes that out of that other subsidy pot, the SDE+, there would also be a draw right of 450 million. This means that these companies are still being subsidised by all of us, by all those citizens, by SMEs, hospitals and schools, that they continue to contribute. I think that's a wrong choice. Those companies have to keep their pants on their own. That is also why I believe that a different form of CO tax should be chosen. I thought the pass-through was very good; I said it here in the debate. It turned out that what GroenLinks had invented was not the best variant. That's exactly why we have independent mathematicians and why it needs to become public, so that everyone can see it. It also showed that the variant chosen by the cabinet is not the best variant. The interesting thing is that not the cabinet or GroenLinks was right, but that the best variant was actually a combination of those two: a low flat tax and a margin tax. That is also what we will be working on in the autumn. We'll work on that. This tax shows that the chances of achieving the objective there are also greatest. By picking up some money from the companies that we can return directly, we can make it even more honest. Mr. Chairman. I'm also worried about the billing. In fact, the PBL indicates that measures which are now in place after 1 May 1997 are no longer being taken into account. I find that unacceptable and I hope that I can convince my colleagues. We will table a motion on this in the second term. I really believe that all the measures now contained in the Cabinet letter should be taken into account, even if all leave should be withdrawn. This should not be partial, but integral. So we know exactly where we stand in October, when the climate plan needs to be written and our plans sent to Brussels. Mr. Chairman. I finish with what I really think is a stain; I just call it a blamage: Urgenda. In 2015, the judge made a judgment without suspensive effect; we had to take action. In 2018 the appeal was; we had to take action. The minimum that the government needs to do is to reduce 9 megatons of additional CO emissions. The cabinet chooses knowingly not to do it. It's gonna be four megatons, nothing more. You may think that the judge should or should not interfere with this policy. But whatever you think, there's a damn judge's verdict. The Netherlands is a rule of law and in a rule of law everyone must abide by the law and a judge's ruling. I find it incomprehensible that the cabinet should ignore this. I therefore assume that the cabinet will return to this and do everything in its power to reach the verdict and reduce 9 megatons of extra CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u114	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u115	Mr President, first of all, let me put all the climate crazy in perspective on the basis of a few figures. Since 1800 the amount of CO in the atmosphere has increased by only 0.01%. Since 1860 the Earth's temperature has risen by only 0.8°C. In addition, the Netherlands is responsible for only 0.35% of total global CO emissions and the Dutch climate policy will lead to a lower increase in earth temperature of only 0.00007°C. That is totally negligible, but yet there is now the Climate Agreement, 240 pages of climate madness and false solutions for a non-existent problem. Mr. Chairman. While hundreds of coal power stations are being built in China, five small power stations have to be shut down in the Netherlands. While people in Belgium and Germany get money when they take a gas connection, in the Netherlands everyone has to get rid of the gas. That is now ideological madness, green madness, with the signature of the VVD underneath. Once the VVD was a liberal party, but nowadays it is the heel-licker of GroenLinks and D66. The VVD will do anything to stay in power. We have to go to the heat pump, we have to go to the solar panels, we have to go electric, and even the introduction of charging and rush charges is now being examined. The VVD has nothing in its own election programme. And now, Mr President, everyone is crowing victory, because the sharp edges would supposedly have been removed from the previous concept of climate change agreement. That's like a thief has announced he's gonna rob your whole house, but eventually he's just gonna loot your living room and then he's gonna want a compliment. Well, not a compliment, it's just a scam. As with the pension agreement and the prevention agreement, the ordinary man and woman had nothing to say about this. The Climate Agreement has also been concluded with all kinds of interest groups and other vague chat clubs at the table. Everyone was sitting there at the table except for the citizens, but they are entitled to pay for it, as with pensions. Mr. Chairman. In the pension agreement, there's a financial gap of about 60 billion. The climate agreement has a hole from here to the ozone layer, because nothing has been calculated at all. Nothing at all! The financial transfer is not due until the end of this year, Minister Wiebes said. The transfer is therefore only partial. How is that possible? That can't be true, can it? The people in this country are just being fooled. And speaking of costs, they'll be huge. Everyone needs to get off the gas. For a normal, average terraced house that costs just €45,000. That's a big deal. Can't you afford that? Oh, no problem. You'd better take out a loan. The cabinet will help you with a so-called heat pump fund, so that you can go further into debt. Mr. Chairman. Those who do not get off the gas quickly despite these high costs or who have nothing to say about it, like the tenants, will simply pay a lot more gas tax in the coming years. And then the cabinet dares to promise that the energy bill will go down on average €100 next year. What the hell are we supposed to believe about that? Because the cabinet has lied before about the rising energy bill. The PVV says to the people at home: don't let anything fool you, because this cabinet itself has raised the energy bill hugely rather and not so much! So that $100 is a cigar from your own box. Don't be fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u116	I thought the PVV also wanted us to stop mining gas in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u117	Sure. We have had a lot of debates about this in this House. Mr Klaver can read all that in the Acts. We have always been very clear about this. Indeed, this gas extraction must first reach the relatively safe level of 12 billion m as soon as possible and then, of course, all the way to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u118	This sounds like music to me. That's really why we need to get rid of the gas so fast. It is only partly related to tackling climate change. Just because we say "okay, we can no longer heat our houses with the Groningen gas," you need alternatives. That's why we need to get off so fast. You can criticize the plans; they can't be good enough. The bill for the citizens can be too high. I think that is legitimate, but you do agree with me that we should do it as soon as possible for the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u119	Yes, of course, for the Groningen, absolutely. But Mr Klaver is actually saying that the whole country can continue to consume gas. Okay, we need to get rid of the Groningen gas. We're gonna cut that down to zero as fast as we can. That can't happen fast enough. But, Mr. Klaver, gas doesn't have to come from Groningen alone. In 2017, some 12% less has been extracted from the Groningen soil and this has been compensated by gas imports from Great Britain and Norway. So indeed, that gas we can just import. Then Mr Klaver says: nice, then the houses can all stay connected to the gas. Everyone continues to consume gas and at the Groningers we stop pumping up gas. Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u120	As Mr Kops knows, he is the spokesperson on this dossier, so I'm sure he knows even better than I do. We know what major problems there are to ensure, in the time we're gonna cut down, that we can find enough gas at all at this stage. They're fossil fuels. We have to get them from other countries. That says something about our independence. Does Mr Kops agree with me that we should get rid of the gas because of Groningen and that this has nothing to do with the climate? If you still have to make that turnaround, we better choose other ways to heat our homes, so that the Netherlands should appeal to him and be independent and we no longer depend on that terrible foreign country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u121	I thought we were talking about the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u122	That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u123	It's about a 240-page package. It says: The Netherlands must get rid of the gas. Then Mr Klaver comes up with all sorts of false arguments, such as: we have to get rid of it because of Groningen. Of course we should. And: we need to get rid of the gas because we need to be independent from abroad. I thought we were talking about the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u124	Mr Kops can now call on the President to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u125	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u126	It's pretty relevant what we're talking about, and I'll explain why I'm talking about it. The PVV, even in this debate, is sowing fear and pretending that there are all climate madmen in the Netherlands, in the world and in this Parliament, who think that we should get rid of the gas for all kinds of dark reasons. But Mr Kops agrees, because we are doing it for Groningen. That is why we need to switch over, and that is why it is relevant in the context of the Climate Agreement. It's about acceptance. Stop scaring me! We're doing this for the Groningen. That is why we are all entering into an almost impossible task. And if you still have the choice and have to get rid of the gas, we choose to make the Netherlands independent of the terrible foreign world. It could be in your election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u127	At least it's nice to hear that the Netherlands doesn't have to get rid of the gas because of the climate. That's already a win. That's right. We've got to phase out the Groningen gas extraction completely. That's what's happening. It's happening. It's happening. It can't be fast enough. That is what we compensated, at least we did in 2017, with gas imports from Great Britain and Norway. Mr Klaver seems to find that scary or horrible abroad. Anyway, it's up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u129	Mr. Chairman. The VVD promised us less immigration, but breaks asylum record after asylum record. At the VVD, the mortgage interest deduction stood as a house, but it is now carefully broken down. And that's how it's gonna be with the billing. A week ago the website of the VVD said: "We were, are and continue to be charged." But the way things are going with the VVD there's some kind of investigation now and, pay attention, eventually the road will just come, thanks to the liars of the VVD. Therefore, in conclusion, the PVV says to this cabinet: stop that, stop that climate madness, stop that nonsense and finally deal with the real problems in this country instead of the climate boom. The Netherlands has no climate problem, the Netherlands has no CO2 problem. Among other things, the Netherlands has a problem with Moroccans who make our pools and our streets unsafe. That's a problem! The Netherlands does not need heat pumps, solar panels and electric cars at all. We need closed borders, we need fewer immigration, fewer criminal asylum seekers. In addition, we do not want to take out loans from some vague heat pump fund. The Dutch want their money back. Dutch people crave relief, a little more purchasing power. Get that over with. Put all those billions of green madness in there. That is a sensible policy, which is useful for the Netherlands, and after years of burden increases the Dutch have finally earned rather than that climate madness. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u130	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u131	Mr. Chairman. Finally, at last, the Climate Agreement, the agreement with which we are going to make our country greener, cleaner and fairer, is the agreement with which we, as one of the first countries in the world, translate the objectives of Paris into concrete actions and results. For months there have been talks and negotiations with lots of parties at climate tables. And look where that got us. Taboos have broken through, the polluter is going to pay, we are going to create more green jobs and the bill is going to be distributed more fairly. In short, this is an agreement with which we are doing our country a great service and putting it in the green. This agreement responds to a broad societal need to combat climate change. I feel that need for myself; D66 feels it for longer. The urgency to take action in recent months has been strengthened by all the climate marches, by striking students, by tens of thousands of people marching through Amsterdam in the pouring rain, all with just one call to The Hague: take action! And that took a while. The cabinet has done too little for too long, but now we are taking action. This Climate Agreement is going to meet the reduction targets set out in the Climate Act through additional investments in circular agriculture and more nature, and by allowing everyone to participate. Making your home more sustainable will be easier and cheaper, paying big polluters. And there will be a CO levy that will make the polluting companies pay more if they emit too much, while we will spare households and small SMEs because they will have to contribute less to the energy tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u132	I suggest that you continue your speech before I give the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u133	That is good; I have a fairly brief contribution, Madam President. It's gonna be all right. All so-called climate tables have been agreed on a smart way to achieve the half-life of CO emissions by 2030. But I am also saying that this is not a fully boarded-up agreement. D66 is open to all the ideas of other parties, organisations and companies in society that can make these plans even better. Topics about the improvement that I think of myself are how we can minimise the storage of CO underground, so CCS, how we can stimulate the second-hand market of electric cars in a smart way and how we are going to speed up the construction of large-scale heat networks without the price of these heat networks being equal to the gas price. I am also thinking about how we can introduce the principle of charging as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. I've had to push on with colleagues, but we can now move on to action. It is fantastic that we have this agreement, but the agreement itself is a thick piece of paper with hundreds of measures. It doesn't work until we get to work. That starts with the ministers and secretaries of state who are now in trade union K and who have to send their laws to the Chamber, so that the CO levy actually comes into effect. It begins at the moment when people who want to make their homes more sustainable or who want a cleaner car can actually apply for the subsidies promised in this agreement. My appeal to the cabinet is not to sit back, but to get to work. This is just the beginning. That is why I would like to receive, as soon as possible, but at the latest at Prinsjesdag, a concrete timetable which states when the various laws and grant schemes are sent to the Chamber. Finally, Mr President. My appeal to all those who are involved, to political parties, NGOs, entrepreneurs, local authorities, the striking young people and, above all, to all those of good will, is: think, join in and build on this Climate Agreement. Let's put our backs on this together. We in the Netherlands have shown so many times, from reconstruction to the Delta Works and from the closure of the coal mines to the closing of the gas supply: we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u134	I very much appreciate Mr Jetten's contribution, and also how he opens himself up to good ideas to see where things can be done even better. Thank you for that. I have noted the point of CCS and how we can keep it to a minimum. It is very important how we can work together in the near future to achieve this. Mr Jetten says that we are going to achieve the goals with this agreement. I hope so. But we don't know that yet, because that hasn't been calculated yet. For example, the CO tax is introduced slightly differently from what the government had previously passed on by the PBL. So the question is, what is the effect of that? My question to Mr Jetten is as follows. I'm worried. The PBL says that all measures will be taken until 1 May and everything after that. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that in the autumn we want a full transfer of the planning agency, because we really need it to be able to move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u135	I can't imagine there's a party in the Chamber who wouldn't like to see that. If we can all call on the PBL to include as many measures as possible from the Climate Agreement in this first climate and energy exploration tonight, I fully support it. Only then can we make good integral considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u136	I have two questions for Mr Jetten. I first hear him say that the good news is that we are going to make it through this climate agreement. I would like Mr Jetten to correct that and say: there is a chance that we will make it. By saying we're gonna make it, Mr. Jetten is actually playing with fire. Because it's not at all certain that we're gonna make it. It would please him if he took back that certainty in his utterances. Secondly, how can Mr Jetten cope with the speech he has just made to the people on the street and the people who have all worked so hard that he is partly responsible for the fact that this climate agreement on the legal ruling on Urgenda says: sorry, we did our best, but we are not going to make it. He's not devoting a single word to that. How can he look himself in the mirror?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u137	Two questions from Mr Van Raan. First of all, is this agreement going to achieve the goals, yes or no? When I look at the PBL's credit transfers, I think I do. There is a margin to the extent that each table is going to deliver its CO targets. Since the additions to the climate agreement, this has really gone in the right direction. Fortunately, almost all parties in the Second and First Chambers have not adopted the Climate Act, the Party for Animals. In the Climate Act, we agreed that we are going to follow climate policy very actively every year. We have established in the Climate Act that by 2050 we will ultimately want a 95% reduction in CO emissions and greenhouse gas emissions. If we're left behind, we're gonna change that every year. Take a look around at the countries in the world. This Climate Agreement is really about the most concrete package that there is worldwide to actually fill in Paris. I'm proud of that. Mr. Chairman. The second question concerns Urgenda. In any case, Mr Klaver, but I do not think I remember exactly asscher or Beckerman; excuses have been taken into account in their contribution. The judge ruled on Urgenda. The judge told the cabinet that in recent years the government has done far too little to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When we made an assessment last year of what was needed to make that catch-up, it was that we had to do 4 more megatons to meet the Urgendavonnis. D66 said together with the coalition parties: what would you need for 4 megatons about? At that time we reserved EUR 500 million for this. That EUR 500 million is now fully deployed by the cabinet. This will bring in the 4 megaton. The estimate made at the end of last year has been completed with the amount reserved for this purpose. It was a setback, I admit, that at the beginning of this year it was not 4 megatons, but 9 megatons, the government wants to comply with that judgment. We will therefore need more than the 500 million package that has now been adopted. We have a little over a year left to do that. I call on the cabinet to keep thinking about what's extra possible. The people behind Urgenda have also recently published a list of some 40 measures. Half of them are already in this climate agreement, so we are already doing well. From the other half we're going to see if it can be executed in a smart way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u138	With regard to the first, the margins of uncertainty, I have the following question. Mr Jetten has to know what he is saying, but it would be much more credible if the plans set out in the climate agreement by this cabinet were to achieve the goal. There's a margin in that, but at least you know that the lower limit reaches the targets generously. Does Mr Jetten agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u139	In the probability calculations of the PBL you can already see that different tables are well in place, but you also know that I have the ambition, that D66 has the ambition, not only to achieve 49% reduction by 2030, but at least 55%, together with a European leading group. I am therefore totally in favour of not saying in the coming years: the Climate Agreement that we came up with in 2019 is for the next eleven years; nothing more. No, we would like more measures, but in such a way that people can come home, that we help companies in the Netherlands to be sustainable and not chase them away. Your contribution will be about the farmers as well. We must stand next to the farmers and say: the way we are now producing food in this country cannot continue; we must move to circular agriculture, but we are not going to chase you all over the blade in the agricultural sector; we are going to stand next to you and help you to make that change. If we take that attitude together in the near future, I am convinced that we can achieve much more than the 49% that this agreement is paying attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u140	Finally, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u141	In short and well, Mr Jetten says, after a long speech, that we are going to put the judge's ruling beside us and we are doing our best. That's unbelievable. That's disruptive. That is not good for the rule of law. But he's willing to accept that. That's bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u142	No, I absolutely don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u143	With regard to Urgenda, he's actually doing the exact same thing. We're not gonna make it to Urgenda. The judge's ruling is also placed next to us. Mr Jetten is taking that risk. That is a real risk to take with the rule of law. Then everyone can say, "Yeah, you know, I'm trying, it didn't work." That's actually irresponsible. The fact that he's satisfied with that doesn't suit him. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u144	No, Mr President, Mr Van Raan puts words in my mouth that I have not used. On the contrary, I am not satisfied with this package. I have indicated that the judge has given a clear ruling. The public authorities must also comply with judgments of the courts. Now there is a package, for the 500 million already reserved, to fill in the 4 megaton, last year's estimate. That's not enough to get the 9 megatons that turned out to be necessary. So we're all gonna have to see how we can do more to comply with that Urgenda pronunciation. I'm not gonna lie down there. The glass is half full.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u145	I note that Mr Jetten, that D66, is going to vote against this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u146	Mr. Van Raan, ask a question, but not establish and draw conclusions. You do that on your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u148	Then I look forward to voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u149	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u150	I have one last question about something that is still not clear to me. In this climate agreement, does Mr Jetten take pleasure in considering that we might be able to make it, while most parts of the climate agreement are below the targets set? Is that assumption correct or is it incorrect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u151	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u152	That's the way it's gonna be. A brief answer. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u153	The joy of D66 stands in stark contrast to the worries of many tenants, many people at home. My question is very specific. The Labour Party pleads that solutions should be found for tenants whose homes are not made more economical by the landlord, for buyers of a poorly isolated corporation house who cannot borrow that money at all and for users of a heat grid where the price suddenly rises. Is D66 prepared to meet us in that and ensure that these people are no longer in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u154	Let me also compliment you. I very much liked Mr Asscher's contribution, also specifically on this point. I think we can take care of a lot more there. For example, I would like to mention your plea to stop linking the price of heat to the price of gas in the long term. In my view, this is also a broad-based wish here in the Chamber. There will be new heat legislation at some point, but let us work on it together, so that people who are already on such a sustainable heat grid do not face huge cost increases. I fully agree with you on that. I also agree with you when you say to the Minister for Housing that we are going to spend the subsidies that will be available, the start-up engine of the first districts where we are going to make it more sustainable, especially in the places where the worse homes are, the unisolated homes, where people who may not be able to pay for it themselves. If that is the route on which you think this cabinet should work out the agreement of the built environment, then I fully support you in that. Mr. Chairman. I myself have recently made a number of work visits in the country, where I have just seen how this can be done. I was together with colleague Van der Lee van GroenLinks in Breda in a district with almost only social rentals, where they started removing the Groningen gas and putting in a heat grid. And just in that neighborhood, where there were very bad, drafty homes, where people with a huge energy bill lived, who also had no action perspective to green up, the housing corporation in the municipality had started with that whole energy transition. That was not just to tackle houses, but also to immediately build bike paths and add more green for the reception of rainwater, so really make it a win-win situation. So it started at the place where people need the most. That is my appeal to this cabinet, so I think the Labour Party and D66 find each other completely in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u155	Thank you so much for the compliment. The question wasn't really about the good example in Breda, but about how we're helping tenants whose landlord says "I'm not buying a heat pump; figure it out," while you're planning to raise the gas bill? My question is: is D66 prepared to support the Labour Party's plea towards your cabinet that a solution should be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u156	Yeah, I'm sure that's what I'm for. I'm just trying to figure out out what those solutions might be. I think there are a few things that are important, which are also included in this Climate Agreement: first of all, when it comes to the energy bill, the exemption from the energy tax is increased. This also allows you to use people with a smaller wallet. I am pleased that local authorities have also shown the willingness to work on this heat transition in a district-oriented manner. This means that all property owners in those neighbourhoods will have to participate, including any private landlords who actually resist. But there may also be other measures to be put in place, with which we can take a firmer approach to the real recalcitrant landlord who leaves his tenant in the cold. I am very curious to hear the proposals you are going to make about this, whether this Minister could perhaps think of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u157	I was actually a little disappointed when I saw the Climate Agreement. I'll explain. The SGP and D66, and indeed the other way round, Mr Paternotte from Mr Jetten's and I's political groups, are always incredibly united in order to burden the flying a little more heavily. There we agree, I think, that flying is about the most environmentally polluting activity there is. And, of course, the tax on kerosene is international; it cannot do that. I get that. But I had really expected that there would be at least a fee of €15 on the tickets. And it's only $7. Then I wonder if Mr Jetten can explain to me how he could have let that go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u158	In my opinion, I have never made it a secret that, in the long term, the flight tax should also be higher than what we have agreed with each other, but in this Climate Agreement we have not made a comprehensive package for aviation, because we are, in fact, making international agreements on this. I hope that Mr Stoffer has also seen in recent months that this cabinet has brought European countries here to talk about a kerosene tax, about a European flight tax. The conversation is heading in the right direction; we are now introducing a flight tax in the Netherlands. I agree with Mr Stoffer that the amount is somewhat limited, but perhaps it can be raised in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u159	I think it's a bit of a pity, because we let go of the €8 per ticket. We could have used them to help all kinds of people in the Netherlands to make that transition. But I understand that Mr Jetten just didn't make it. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u160	You can't always get everything, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u162	I would like to talk about Urgenda, because I can easily imagine that Mr Jetten is not happy about this either. But then the criticism towards the cabinet could really be a bit louder. Mr Jetten says: last year we thought it was 4 megatons. That's what we thought in December, but in January the PBL came up with the statement that it's 9 megatons that we have to do extra. Mr Jetten then replied: the government is obliged to protect its citizens and must comply with the ruling on those 9 megatons now; if the government does not do so, it is outside the law; the foundation of our democratic rule of law will be undermined, and that is unthinkable. Mr. Jetten, the unthinkable has happened. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u163	I still support those words, but the cabinet will have until the end of next year to comply with them. Now a first step has been taken with the introduction of a package that adds up to probably about 4 megatons. There's gonna be more to it. At the end of this year, we will have a new climate and energy exploration. Perhaps it turns out that it is not 9 but now 7, because we have preserved in all kinds of places or that the 9 has now become 10 because the economy is doing so well. The cabinet will have to act on that. I couldn't agree more. As far as I am concerned, the glass is half full, because about half of the tasks that came in January have now been completed. There's gonna be more to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u164	What Mr Jetten is saying now means that there is a duty for the cabinet to fill in another five megatons. That is what Mr Jetten is saying. There is now a duty to find the next 5 before 2020. That's not something that might be possible. It has to be done. If that's what you really think, then time is short. It's only six months before it's 2020. If you want to step on that now, you're almost closing down an additional coal plant. Then we should not wait until October, because then again months are lost. Then we have to make choices about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u165	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u166	Why the confidence in Mr Jetten that we can still wait until the autumn and that we are still in time to reach the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u167	It's very simple. The cabinet now shows that it is capable of halving CO emissions by 2030. Over the last ten years, it has been unthinkable with the Cabinets we have had that we dared to take such great steps in the field of climate. From that point of view, I assume that the cabinet will continue to work to implement the Climate Agreement as quickly as possible and to implement all the measures it contains as quickly as possible, so that we will actually get those greenhouse gas emissions down. I believe that the attitude of all of us should remain as we have worked with these climate tables with all these hundreds of organisations. Let us look over the next year and a half at how, for example, smart things that are in the climate agreement could perhaps be brought forward a little bit. Maybe we haven't mapped out any measures yet? Are there measures that still seem very expensive and that can still be cheaper? This way you can still do more than the 4 megaton that is now booked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u168	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u169	Finally. Minister Hugo de Jonge, the Deputy Prime Minister, said last Friday: we really looked at what we could do; that's all we could do, given the support; this is it; there was no room to do any more; this is it, because there is no more support. In 2015, there was this statement. We didn't do anything. We didn't do anything in 2016. In 2017, we didn't do anything. We didn't do anything in 2018. Now we are proud that we are doing half, because Mr Jetten seems to be proud that the glass is half full. Urgenda insists. We have to get that verdict. I am really going to hold Mr Jetten to the fact that this cabinet should come in this autumn with an additional package of 5 megatons extra, to be obtained by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u170	That wasn't a question, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u171	At the beginning of my introduction, I also said that we have done far too little in Cabinets on climate policy for a long time. This cabinet is now making a huge catch-up. Yeah, I'm proud of that. I will be on the table with the rest of my group in the coming months to ensure that this beautiful climate package leads to concrete laws and concrete subsidy schemes that people at home and businesses can apply for to be sustainable, so that we are really going to achieve those goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u172	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u173	Madam President. I'm from 1969. Since that year, the CO content has increased by 30%. This increase in the atmosphere is accelerating and could be twice the current level in 2100. I hear the Prime Minister asking if there's a link. No, there's no link. Of course CO is a natural gas, from which plants grow beautifully. It's even supposed to be in Coke. But it is also a greenhouse gas whose content has increased so that the global temperature is now 1C higher compared to the beginning of the industrial revolution. Since the beginning of that revolution and especially after the Second World War, we have driven the fossil fuels out of the earth in an incredibly fast pace. And that leads to warming. There's the cola specialist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u174	Yes, the word "cola" has fallen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u175	I never drink Coke; I like CO way too much to drink just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u176	Don't advertise for free.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u177	Mr Segers just said that it is on average about 1C warmer on earth than it was 200 years ago. Can he also indicate the temperature difference with the situation on Earth around 1650?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u178	You checked the encyclopedia, so let's hear it. It's nice to ask these kind of knowledge questions every time, but I don't play quizzes. You can say whatever you want to say. You may ask a question concerning political policy and choices. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u179	Mr Segers just doesn't know anything about it. It turns out every time. The climate is constantly changing. The low point of what we call the small ice age was in the seventeenth, eighteenth century. Then it got a bit warmer again and before that it was my follow-up question.It was a bit warmer on earth. I also wanted to know if he knew anything about the medieval heat period. How hot was it about in the 12th and 13th centuries, when we built all those beautiful cathedrals? At that time it was a little warmer on Earth than it is now. And that had nothing to do with CO, which had to do with natural cycles. This is something that is always forgotten throughout the discussion: the climate also changes naturally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u180	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u181	It's not constant, but it changes. I asked the question, and I immediately gave the answer, because Mr Segers indicated that he wanted me to put it before him. He just wants to talk about policy now, and that is exactly the problem with today's politicians. They only think in ad hoc policy pieces and do not see the broader picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u182	Thank you for...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u183	No, I base policy on scientists' findings. And then I look at the best knowledge of the best scientists. They provide us with the insights that say that there is a relationship with what we have done since the industrial revolution, namely the pollution of the earth with the burning of fossil fuels. We chased it through in an instant. As a result, the percentage of CO has increased. I just mentioned the 30% percentage. A certain percentage of CO is needed to hold the heat, to keep it liveable, but where there is more, that leads to warming. That's the relationship that's been demonstrated, that's exactly our responsibility. We burn that CO, we emit that CO, and we have to do something about it. Madam President. Apart from the fact that in more and more places the earth is in danger of becoming less liveable or even unliveable, there is something quite different going on. We simply live on too big a foot. If we as Dutch people extrapolate our ecological footprint to the rest of the world, we need about three and a half globes with our lifestyle. This year, our Earth Overshoot Day fell down that's the day you used up your ration for a whole year on April 14th. Then we were through. Yeah, we're good here and now, but that's at the expense of there and later, of our children's future. And that, when We have received this earth on loan, With this way of producing and consuming, we feed on the trusted capital of future generations, while we must and want to be righteous stewards. The causes are known, at least in most people, and the consequences are guessed. We know, we measure it, but we don't act on it, and certainly not in the Netherlands. That's for those who think we're like blind finches ahead of us. That is why the Climate Agreement has rightly been mentioned as a milestone. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, it is a fine agreement, an ambitious agreement and a just agreement. However, the entire winding-up of this agreement led to uncertainty and uncertainty. At the same time, I wonder whether we would have arrived here without the tables, without all the pass-through exercises and without the endless conversations. Yes, we already had a very ambitious government agreement on the environment, in green terms, but it would have been unthinkable to add an effective CO levy for industry, a significant reduction in agricultural emissions by a warm clean-up of pig farms, a reduction in peat meadows, 70% electricity from the sun and wind in 2030, a clear view of paying for use rather than possession of the car, i.e. charging, and also a substantial reduction in the energy bill in 2020. My question to the cabinet is what lessons the cabinet draws from governance so far for the follow-up. After all, it comes to that direction when implementing the agreement. If governance is not in order, percentages such as 49% or 55% CO reduction will remain pious desires unsanged from reality in 2030. How does the cabinet ensure that we work together on a steady transition of our energy supply and the economy, with which we achieve the goals in 2030 and 2050? How will it be adjusted in good time if targets disappear unexpectedly? How is the Chamber involved and what role do planning agencies play as independent referees? I would like to ask whether the transfer of this agreement is in the Chamber in October. Can we count on that? How does the cabinet, now that the egg has been laid, offer citizens and businesses a concrete perspective of action, in every city, every village, every neighborhood, every street? When will the heat fund be available? When will citizens know how to use it? Mr President, I wanted to say something, but I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u184	I don't know how far you are, Mr Segers. When you're almost done, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u185	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u186	Not yet. Then Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u187	I think it is very nice that Mr Segers is now putting the beginning of history at his own birth rather than someone's longer ago. That's another more modern variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u188	50 years after Segers!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u189	Yeah, exactly. Actually, we always charge like that. It's perfectly normal for us, but now it's really time to go to the now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u190	And I just stayed under it, too, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u191	Your modesty is unbelievable, and certainly in a room full of modest people you are jumping out of it tremendously. My question concerns people who are watching this debate and do not want to talk about the cathedral builders or the mammoth killers or how they have been since you were born. My question is about the energy bill later. You have already heard me ask that question and I am sure you have an answer to it. Is the Christian Union prepared, with the Labour Party, to instruct this cabinet to seek solutions for tenants who see beyond their fault that their energy bill may raise hundreds of euros? They do not build that heat pump or live in a house where it does not. I am thinking, for example, of the buyers of such a poor corporation house and the users of heat grids. Those people are really worried and e-mailing us, and I'm sure you are. Can we agree tonight that there will be solutions for that? I'd like to hear the effect. Can we give that clarity now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u192	First of all, there is the reduction in the energy tax that benefits everyone and then, relatively speaking, especially those with a narrow scholarship and middle incomes. That's the good news. The slide, where gas becomes a little more expensive and electricity a little cheaper, turns out to be largely Modo neutral. From there, you do have to go to work. If you're gonna trade, you're gonna win money. Mr Asscher is right to ask: what if you do not have that perspective of action? Then we need to look at where we have that perspective of action. A few examples: where do we start first? Which corporations can get to work first? I would say: start in those some vulnerable neighbourhoods, where people do not have that choice and where there are poorly isolated houses. We have that freedom of choice and that conversations we can make with housing corporations. I would also like to say that on many pages of the agreement we have a hand-to-the-crane formulation or a finger-to-the-pulse. This also requires a great deal of work and we are going to talk about this. I think it is a legitimate concern: what do you do with the people who have no choice? I think you should take care of it first and serve the first. That will always be my benchmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u193	I have seen that the cabinet intends to reduce the energy bill, which was first raised by €150, by €100. That seems to me to be heading in the right direction. But my question was not about the image broadly, but simply about the concrete example of tenants who can do nothing about it. My question was not whether there is a hand on the crane, whether things are working out. This issue is about policy, and I think that people want clarity. My question was therefore much simpler: are you prepared to instruct this cabinet with me to resolve this? The way in which we will then judge together, but I think we should now point to what we expect from this cabinet. Here's a problem that's bigger than a few isolated cases and you can't solve it with "starting in some neighborhoods." We need to provide people with security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u194	Yes, but the first part of my answer was reassuring, namely that the slide, the energy tax reduction, is designed to keep people safe. So that gas becomes more expensive doesn't mean they have to pay more eventually, because the cost of electricity is getting less and you get that refund, that discount on your energy bill. So that's the first reassurance. Next, the heat fund and all other perspectives are indeed primarily intended for people who can take that step themselves. I'm still curious how and when they can put it. The choice to start with in vulnerable neighbourhoods is indeed a choice that we can make or which we can appeal to the housing corporations: start where the need is highest. So we can do that. When I say 'hand on the tap and finger on the wrist', I mean that that is indeed a benchmark, that we should keep those people in sight every time, that they should not be the child of the account. So, yes, we have to take steps. We shall look into this in the light of the outcome, because I think you have really raised a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u195	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u196	I'm not arguing that if you look from a distance, a slider like that can work. If you start using less gas and more electricity, you can even improve on it. Of course, that's the idea behind it, and I get it. I would like to point out an example in which someone does not have so many alternatives. You have an old house, the trek, you want your kids to sleep in winter without being cold. Then you're gonna have to defuse a lot of gas. If your landlord doesn't do anything about that trip and the gas bill goes up and that costs you €200 extra, you don't need the nice formulas we hear now. I think this is a very good time to tell the cabinet that we do not want this, that this problem needs to be solved. If we give that order, then we can look at the effects it brings. But then we'll give that assignment together. Because you're risking the support for combating climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u197	Where this energy bill would increase as a result of the rise in gas prices, this tax reduction on energy does indeed do something. That is and remains the first part of my answer. The second is, and this is not meant to be silly, that I would first like to hear from the Minister of the Interior how this will work out and what opportunities we have for meeting these people. I do not think that people should be punished for it. So we also designed that slide and looked at the energy load, in a way that people are spared and given an incentive. Where that incentive can't work out, because people are in a corporation house and they don't have that freedom of choice, we must indeed see what we can do. So I think it's a very real question, and it's not a mistake to push it through. I await the answer, but I find the concern very real.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u198	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u199	Madam President. The "R" is out of the month, but the "R" word is back: charging. That is as necessary as it is sensible of the cabinet. We can absorb the excise losses from electric driving. By varying according to time, place and environmental characteristics, it is not only a smarter and fair way of promoting car mobility, which will improve most drivers, but also improve climate and air quality. It is good that the government continues to do so on the path set out in the coalition agreement. In fact, that agreement decided to introduce a truck tax. Once it has been introduced, we will also take the step towards the passenger car. At least, if the next cabinet decides to do so. Mr. Chairman. As you can already hear, it will not be the Christian Union Group. I do have a question about the workability of the first variant, for only the electric car. How is this variant going to unpack for hybrid cars? It's gonna be very unfair, though, if you had to deal with a hybrid car twice. By the way, it is also nice that not only the car has been thought of, but also bicycle use is given an impetus again with additional investments in bicycle parking spaces. Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to this agreement, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has continued to work for a balanced distribution of climate and energy bills in front of and behind the scenes. I am pleased that we are taking a significant step with the reduction of the tax of €100. I have already said it in relative terms, especially the low and middle incomes. My group does not want SMEs, for example, to pay disproportionately for the pollution of multinational industries. We want the polluter to pay. I would like to hear from the cabinet how they respect SMEs. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union stands in a tradition of trust in society. We are therefore very much in favour of initiatives such as energy cooperatives. I would like to ask the Minister of EZK about the so-called postcode rose scheme, that is to say, the energy cooperatives. How is their business model affected by the slider? How can we spare them from creating that drawer? Can the Minister take away my concern about this? The Christian Union does not want their business case to become even less interesting, as this is not the first reduction in the energy tax on electricity. Mr President, I will conclude. I started with the beautiful year 1969. The year in which Neil Armstrong was the first man to set foot on the moon. A year in which humanity proved capable of great things, albeit with heavy emissions, but still. Why should we not be able to recreate great things in 2019, innovations that will reduce emissions, make mobility cleaner, making production and consumption more sustainable? It is therefore good that the Climate Agreement also addresses innovations such as green hydrogen. Mr. Chairman. Finally, let me stress that we do not do all this because creation is makeable, but because it is vulnerable. Not because we control the thermostat of the world, but because we can and must influence production and consumption in this beautiful country, for which we bear responsibility. After all, we want us to live the good life here and now without deteriorating others' lives elsewhere and later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u200	Those were fine words from Mr Segers. He ends with us not disrupting life elsewhere and later. That's exactly what we're doing when you look at the Monitor Brede Prosperity. I just heard him say: trust in society. I would like him to take us with him again, especially the people of Urgenda, in which Mr Segers of the Christian Union allows it, allowing a court ruling to be placed next to him twice, which is why he goes along with it. Can he take us again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u201	I don't want us to put that aside, and we didn't. First of all... That's not at all, well, maybe a little fainting, but still, I'm just saying. A previous cabinet was the first to receive that ruling and did not do much. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat is het eerste, dus wij stonden al op achterstand.]] Then measures have been taken that add up to now 4 megatons. I hope that will be more, so we will indeed have to do more. The reassurance that I have is that we now have a climate agreement in which very strong measures are taken until 2030 and 2050, so it does not fall silent after those 4 megatons. We are really continuing with the policy of reducing CO emissions. If you ask me, "you would have wanted to do more yourself, you would have inserted something that could have been added to the dike" I say, "Yes, you would have." For example, we could close the shops on Sundays. That saves 1 megaton. I didn't get all the coalition parties all excited about that, but it is an option. If we really limit weed cultivation and if we ban nitrous oxide, we still have one megatone. Then I've been talking two megatons together for a while. So, yeah, I do have some ideas about that. Only, you need a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u202	That's a big profit, but I still have my question. Do you actually say: don't worry, because we are going to get that judgment, that judgment, and do you trust me, Mr Segers of the Christian Union, just that we are going to settle that? Is that what Mr Segers says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u203	Like you, I'm a cabinet inspector. The cabinet's up. That has taken steps. I hope that it takes more steps, that it makes more sense and that we get very close to that objective of Urgenda, because I do think you should take the judge seriously. In the long term, there is reassurance that we have policies that extend far beyond those 9 megatons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u204	Thank you, Mr Segers. Oh, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u205	Mr. Chairman, really. I'm sorry. But really, what a bullshit by Mr Segers. I'm very sorry. I can't resist interrupting for a while. In the end, he says that we should not put future generations at risk or anything like that, and that is why we need to do something about climate policy. Does he have concrete examples, examples in which CO endangers people's lives, deaths or something like that? Examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u206	Those are the warnings the IPCC is giving us. Those are the warnings that say that on parts of the world it can lead to enormous drought or lead to massive gnashing, heavy rainfall. It can lead to extreme weather. It's affecting biodiversity. That's a very good chance. So they say that if you don't do something now, you're at a very high risk of getting worse, that the earth's vitality is indeed under pressure. And because we have only one earth, we have only one responsibility and we have only one mission and that is action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u207	Seriously, that's bullshit. The Earth is greening precisely because of the increased CO concentration in the atmosphere. And a few predictions from the IPCC indeed. At the end of the 1980s it was said that if global warming were not brought under control in 2000, 19 years ago, the rising sea level would wash away entire countries. Didn't happen. It was also said, in the early 1990s, that whole nations could be wiped off the face of the earth by rising sea levels. Didn't happen. Al Gore said in his film that global warming would lead to an increase in sea level of 6 metres in the near future. Twelve years later, that happened only by 3 centimeters. So nothing of all those predictions that Mr Segers is referring to has come out at all. Could you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u208	Yeah, I'd like to respond to that. You have to listen to these scientists very carefully, with the possibility that that is not 100% accurate. At the same time, we have a responsibility. You know that if you don't do something, the risk is very high. Then there is a very high risk that this biodiversity and its viability will indeed be affected. Our lives will last, but my children and perhaps grandchildren when I have them, but at least a next generation, in their lives, will reap the very wretched fruits of that. We must now act with our best knowledge and be able to do with our best. You can debate that. You can debate measures. But what you can't do is do nothing. That is extremely irresponsible when you think about the next generation and the next generation. If that is the option of the PVV, I find that totally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u209	What is irresponsible is now, on the basis of all kinds of assumptions and predictions that have not been made, predictions by the scientists on which Mr Segers bases himself, going to take all kinds of insane climate measures that will cost billions, hundreds of billions. And Mr. Segers, with that, with that cost, you're saddled with future generations. Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u210	When it comes to costs, we have added up to 2030 on about 0.2% of our GDP. Care is 10%. That's a much, much bigger share. This is 0.2%, so we can afford that. Suppose you say the whole IPCC, all those scientists, I know better. I, PVV representative, know better than all those scientists. Still, it's good to have clean air. Still, it's good to have your own energy. Still, it is good to stop being dependent on gas from Russia and oil from Saudi Arabia. Surely the PVV should want to get rid of that. There are many good reasons why we have to act: because of concern for the earth, but also because of geopolitics. All in all, I'd say join in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u211	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a bit of my maiden speech as group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u213	So no one's allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u214	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u215	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u216	Mr. Chairman. Everyone with small children knows that it's harder to build something than to destroy it, because of the moment when one tries to build a tower of LEGO and walks past the other and kicks it in a wicked mood. At this time of polarization and fragmentation we see that this also applies in politics throughout the Western world. Again, building something is much more difficult than trying to take it down. Last week the SCP presented a report showing that Dutch people are now experiencing polarisation as the biggest threat to the future. If you let that get through to you, it's not surprising that people on the left and right, after the pension agreement and the overwhelming yes of the FNV, at least came to me and found relief: we can still do it. I would like to put this proposal for the Climate Agreement in the same vein. It's been negotiated for one and a half, two years. Here is a compromise, a proposal that falls into the same, good Dutch polder tradition: feasible and affordable. But from the flanks, you'll immediately see that there's a sharp shot. The Animal Party called the agreement "compromism." That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. I find that incomprehensible. The reasoning to put away the art of compromise as some kind of bad ideology is really mataglap to me. But there's always boss over boss. By Mr Baudet, about all the science and almost all the countries of the world are dismissed as a quasi-sectarian society that seems to have declared war on CO based on witchcraft, "which is simply in cola." Then you are the ghost rider who is swearing in his car that really all other cars, really all of them, are going the wrong way. How dare they? But there are happy parties who have taken their responsibility to reach a climate agreement. Mr Nijpels is here; he has been working on it for a very long time. Even in the coalition, although I have been a part of it myself for the last five weeks, this has been discussed for a long, long time. I am pleased about the Climate Agreement that lies here. By shifting the burden from citizens to businesses, it will be possible to reduce the tax on the energy bill by an average of €100 per household next year. And industry is going to make the most of it. I urge the cabinet to keep industry in line with its objectives and, at the same time, to closely monitor that companies are not unnecessarily forced to leave abroad. This affects employment, the work that Mr Asscher has just talked about. I therefore ask the Minister of EZ how he will carry out this double task. Because from stewardship I feel the responsibility for a clean future as well as for keeping jobs in the Netherlands. I would like to receive a response from the Minister for Economic Affairs. The measures in the built-up environment are the most affected by people's daily lives. The text of the final agreement is an improvement as far as my group is concerned. Municipalities are going to make plans with their inhabitants to make neighbourhoods more sustainable over the course of many years. Housing corporations are used as starters and are also given a budget for this. Homeowners are helped to make their home more sustainable, for example through a heat fund. However, I would like to know the following, in response to questions from Mr Asscher, who also referred to 'you cannot live in bullshit' by the great Jan Schaefer. Mr Asscher may have done so knowingly, because he knows that when you come with Jan Schaefer, you often get along well with a Heerma. In my opinion, there are indeed problems for tenants who are in a non-sustainable home, in a house with a bad energy label, but also for people who are dealing with the Heat Act. I would like a reaction from the cabinet, because I think we can do something here. That was entrapment, Mr. Chairman. I admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u217	This is a very nice argument, also to use the word "mataglap" here again. I'd say mesjogge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u218	That just means something different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u219	Yeah, I guess so. The point is that I am very pleased that the CDA here recognises that there is a problem with a large group of people. Where he asks for solutions, we in the Chamber, as group chairmen or spokesmen, should instruct the Cabinet to remove this problem, because it is precisely about a lot of people at home who are willing to contribute to combating climate change, but who cannot avoid that higher gas bill. This entrapment is well understood, but I would very much like to confirm that we are instructing the cabinet together to spare these groups and to ensure that this problem does not arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u220	Mr Jetten has just given room for this in his reply in your direction. That is why I would also like to address two of your points. Mr Asscher immediately indicated this as a major concern in the present agreement. I believe that today we have also received a letter from the House Union, which is also in line with this. On the first point: I just mentioned Mr Schaefer and my own father, but also with regard to the Heat Law, about the principle of no more than another, there is another CDA at the source. That was once an initiative law of former chamber member Jan ten Hoopen. However, because of the gas slide, which has been made considerably smaller than the original 20 cents, the problem would have been much more serious and the operation of the Heat Act may harm these people or suffer less benefit from the other measures. That's not fair. I have the impression that there are already quite wide-ranging concerns about this in the Chamber. My colleague Agnes Mulder, who is also here, tabled a motion on this matter a few weeks ago, which was supported by the Labour Party, so it is consistent from Mr Asscher. That motion calls for the amendment of that Heat Act to be brought forward on this point in order to resolve this problem. In response to Mr Asscher's question, therefore, I would like to ask what the Minister for Foreign Affairs can do on this point, also following this motion. Then there is the second point, about the tenants who are stuck in these unsustainable homes. I read the agreement in this way: there is scope for doing more in line with Mr Asscher's question. This has to do with a point system: in determining the level of the rent, you have to create incentives for the landlords to become more sustainable. I also ask the Cabinet, like Mr Asscher, to make the development of rents actually depend on the level of sustainability of that property in order to encourage that landlord to do so. In addition, I believe that the agreement states that tenants will be given more rights to object if the landlord does not do so and they are stuck in a house and have to deal with the costs thereof. These are many elements of Mr Asscher's legitimate concern, where the cabinet, given what is there and given the wishes that are also in the Chamber, can do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u221	I am pleased that the spirit of Heerma is wandering around here and we are therefore going to stand up for families who look forward to this. I've also read what the Cabinet writes about it. My observation is that it does not take away the concerns of many people, because it remains 'living expenses neutral', 'there will be opportunities', 'we will do something in order','maybe there will be incentives'. I think we should make the political statement, and I actually heard Mr Heerma do it, that we should not let the people who are unable to influence it go backwards as a result of these climate measures. Because that's where justice gets, that's where it gets unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u222	The proof of the pudding is always in the eating. That goes for the same thing here. I can just read my lines now. The cabinet sets neutral housing costs as the starting point, but the basis for the measure is then in the practical development. In my view, Mr Asscher is precisely where potentially good measures can be taken to remove this concern. Then it is up to the cabinet to do this right, then those concerns can be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u223	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u224	Mr. Chairman. One of the biggest changes to the concept is in the mobility plans. My group has been opposed and concerned for almost ten years about the overstimulation of too expensive emission-free cars, of Tesla's, but also the hybrid cars: the Mitsubishi Outlander. That has led to huge exceedances. We are therefore pleased that the phasing-out of over-subsidisation is accelerated and that these subsidies are directed more towards emission-free cars that are also accessible to the middle class. Mr President, I am almost coming to a conclusion, and I must do so, given the time. It is still best to use European standards and European standards as a cabinet. How does this cabinet see this? What commitment does it intend to continue to make in the coming years? This brings me to the question of European targets at all. In fact, there is now a 40% reduction in Europe, which is much less than the 49% that we, like the Netherlands, expect with this agreement. Can the government indicate when the European targets for 2030 will be finally set? (NL) Mr President, there is a real conclusion to that. The Climate Agreement can count on the support of the CDA Group. Then I'm talking about the big contours. Because, of course, we will continue to monitor the impact critically and we will see whether the framework conditions of feasible and affordable are being implemented in practice. But then against the backdrop of a climate agreement with which we build a cleaner future for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u225	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u226	Thank you, Mr President. I'm replacing Marianne Thieme, who unfortunately is ill. Since the election of the Animal Party in 2006 as the first ecocentric party in the world in parliament, we have participated in hundreds of environmental and climate debates. Every time the message of the cabinet was that it was now or never; five to twelve; five to twelve; no, one to twelve. In the meantime, I'm beginning to wonder if the clock is still standing. Some cabinet statements. 2007, Minister Cramer: "Everyone realizes that we cannot continue in the old groove." 2016, Secretary of State Dijksma: "We have to live differently, make drastic choices." 2018, Prime Minister Rutte: "The need to fight climate change has not diminished in any way." Mr Rutte even made the comparison with post-war reconstruction, one of the biggest transformations in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. For 12 years, five to twelve. It would be funny if it weren't so tragic. It also illustrates how successive cabinets are always closer to the shirt than the skirt. That economics is more important than ecology. That growth weighs more than the planet. This industry is more important than future generations. This also applies to the self-appointed greenest cabinet ever, as we know thanks to the plans that are before us today. A CO tax which is only levied when this cabinet is no longer in charge, which is still too late and which still does not allow the crucial polluters to pay but avoids it. A clean-up of the livestock industry, which is still based on voluntary, unsustainable manure digesters, and still on millions of subsidies used as lubricants without having to change anything. A reduction in CO emissions that would be achieved by replacing coal power plants with giant wood stoves on the edge of our cities, fired with trees from our scarce nature, by making CO-eaters into CO-brewers, which means that the Netherlands will deforest even faster than the Brazilian rainforest. And maybe someday, far away in 2026, a form of bill riding. Mr Dijkhoff questioned the whole idea one day after the publication of the Climate Agreement. That's been the recurring string since 1977: we have to do it, we're going to investigate it and we're going to postpone it. We've been 42 years. If the measures envisaged show anything, it is political cowardice and irresponsible policy. It is a compromise in which D66 and CDA, VVD and ChristianUnion have had to agree, and that is it, compromise that is weak, too late and not effective. And there is still self-regulation, voluntaryness and information. Large pollutants remain out of the question, because they would do so many good things for the Dutch economy. Of course, Rutte III is using the hardworking Dutchman not to have to intervene. The self-appointed greenest cabinet ever dares to say that we have the time and can take the time, that it must all remain a bit feasible, affordable and above all fun, and that it doesn't all have to be tomorrow. We have 21 years left, the Prime Minister says. It'll take his time. Mr. Chairman. I'm not making this up. I base myself on quotes from rulers who apparently do not realise that many comments on the proposed climate measures show that they are taking very great risks with their delaying behaviour. They gamble with the life and future of others. Penny wise, pound foolish. The costs of combating climate change will become more priceless as we delay them longer. Waiting for the sale doesn't make any sense. There won't be any price cuts. Intervention becomes much more expensive every year that we don't act. Despite the Prime Minister's previous assurance that the judge's ruling in the Urgenda case would be honoured, the cabinet does the opposite. The demand of 9 megatons additional reduction in 2020 is a blow to the cabinet. The cabinet thus ignores both a court ruling and his duty of care towards the Dutch people. That is totally irresponsible and potentially disruptive. It doesn't have to happen until 2050, not already. Mr. Chairman. For decades, the motto in politics has been The Hague. It is too weak, too late and not effective, while in particular the early industrialised countries, such as the Netherlands, account for a huge historical climate debt, while CO remains active for years and only drastically reducing emissions increases the chances of future generations. We know we have to act now. Actually, we know we should have acted a long time ago. And we didn't do it. We must act now, because we are putting the planet and thus putting ourselves in danger. Mr. Chairman. This raises the pressing question of what inspired the coalition to come up with such incoherent, unambitious and unestimable climbing measures. We witness two years of endless polder, two years. I am not asking this question to those parties that seem to consider the political climate in the Netherlands to be more important than global warming, the VVD and the CDA. I'm not asking them that question. I put him to the Christian Union and D66, parties with a climate conscience. If you are told time and time again by scientists and planning agencies that we are very probably not going to make it, why do you sign a completely inadequate crisis plan? Is the coalition really worth more to you than the future of the planet? What is at stake here is the rule of law, the confidence in politics, the confidence in the polder and the future of our children and our planet, nothing more and nothing less. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u227	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u228	Mr. Chairman. This morning my wife and I cycled with the mountain bike through the Veluw nature. Well, that was beautiful, and good for our marriage, of course. But it also underlined to me once again that it is very important to take responsibility for protecting God's beautiful creation. That is why, as a SGP, we are also saying that it is very good that there is now a package of measures and that we can get our hands on them. But the SGP voted against the Climate Law at the time. That was not because I deny the reality of a global warming, but because I want to be realistic when it comes to implementing the measures to deal with them. The same reserves that I had then, I would have if I allowed the present Climate Agreement to work on me. The cabinet welcomes the delivery of 49% CO2 reduction in 2030 and at the same time says to the citizens: we will take care of it; go to sleep quietly. It is in itself commendable that we are going to take steps, but at the same time it is so pricey that you have to ask yourself whether it is feasible and affordable. The people in the country are very worried. Do they have to take out a new mortgage because of the Climate Agreement? Many already have trouble getting around every month. Mr. Chairman. I note that there is still a lot, a lot, to be done and that it is unprecedentedly complex. 49% reduction may be achieved if you go beyond the pain limits of society: towards 2030 200,000 homes per year without natural gas. This afternoon, the Economic Institute for Construction presented a devastating report on this optimism. The big question now is: what does the cabinet choose? I see two options. One. The cabinet opts for a transition in which 49% reduction is the holy grail for which everything must depart. This is a transition with orders for municipalities. Or the cabinet chooses option two: a transition in which hard work is carried out, but which takes into account the feasibility and affordability and does not declare that 49% sacred. I'm sure you won't be surprised that the SGP chooses the latter. But let me also be clear. It is good that measures are being taken. The SGP would rather spend our euros on a Dutch installer than on an oil sheik in Saudi Arabia. After a long talk about targets, it is now high time to get to work. The climate is not feasible, as Mr Segers said later, but there is a biblical mission. May I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u229	I'll let you through any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u230	Then I'll keep going. On Monday, I was at an energy evening of SGP council members. We noticed that many council members want to get to work or are already busy. But I also heard concerns. The Regional Energy Strategy and the heat transition plan should be drawn up in a short period of time. How can a municipality in such a short time provide support for such far-reaching plans? Many crucial framework conditions, such as building-related funding, have been announced but have not yet been settled. Municipalities really need more budget. They will receive only €150,000 per municipality per year in the next three years. That's an average. But in small municipalities there is often less than 1 fte available for this large transition. And that's gotta be different. Council members from municipalities in sparsely populated areas where a heat grid is not possible seriously question the financing. I say to the cabinet: enable municipalities to take up their role, without a timeline enforced from above. Mr. Chairman. Many citizens want to make their own contribution. There are 500 local energy corporations and thousands of Dutch use the netting scheme or want to isolate. These initiatives are very important for the success of the energy transition, for the sake of acceptance alone. While in Drenthe there are protests against large wind farms, there are also villages with their own windmill that decide where the windmill gets, how high it gets and who gets the money. The SGP says: "Give these energy initiatives and citizens a full job." I feel like the big boys are still being watched too much. So we are happy with the heat fund, but it is not yet the isolation bomber we hope for. Mr. Chairman. I keep worrying about the reliability of the energy system. I've already announced that to the Minister. Sun and wind are important, but how do we keep enough controllable power so that we don't run out of electricity on quiet and dark days in 2030? And where is the system analysis and the stress test? I say that we need to invest more in alternative energy sources such as tidal energy, aquathermia and thorium. What are the plans for the baker on the corner? The SGP has asked for the impact on several SMEs to be taken into account, but so far this has not happened. I'd like to receive this bill for Princess' Day. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has more pluses and minuses. I would like to name two more concrete opportunities that the cabinet has left behind in my experience. Why has the double flight tax on tickets been removed? Isn't that the kind of return we could invest in the energy transition? And the food industry indicates that the expansion of the SDE++ for industry is limited to techniques that are particularly useful to the heavy industry. But Sugar Union and other similar companies are empty-handed. I say, let's get these companies hooked up, too. In short, it is good that we are getting to work, but I have concerns about the overall package and its implementation. Let us be careful to spoil ourselves, for example by saddled municipalities with a timetable that they can't possibly make it. Finally. Not fear should be our advisor, but the mission to cultivate and preserve the earth in the reassuring knowledge that it ultimately depends not on our efforts, but on the client, God the Creator himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u231	With each debate, the SGP seems to take a little more distance from the importance of taking climate action. The SGP is growing in doubt. That's what worries me. What I also find worrying is that the SGP is fully committed to the fact that making gas free is only a climate call. That's what we're doing because of Groningen. You say you're worried and it's all going way too fast. Then what are you going to tell the Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u232	I do not think that Mr Klaver will follow me every time in all the debates. He can't help it, because that's what a spokesperson does for him, of course. The fact that we are getting rid of the Groningen gas for the Groningen people is something I would like to mention in any debate that is in progress. I think that's something we should just do. He says I'm gonna stand back, but I'm not gonna stand back from the fact that we're gonna have to take steps. The only thing I really care about is whether we should focus on this 49% CO reduction by 2030. I feel, and many in society with me, that that's too tight. If you're not careful, we're gonna push it so hard you're gonna prick the place. I'd say, "Let's get our hands on the team." That's what I just said. We really need to do things. If we get 37% by 2030, so be it. If we get 53%, it'll be nice. But the SGP wants to get started and we do not just want to focus on a number that we have to get to the bottom of the ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u233	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u234	Again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u235	No, no! You've already been there. You'd love to, but we're not going to. Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u236	I thought for a moment that Mr Van Raan wanted to make an interruption the size of a contribution, but that is not the case. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS supported the Climate Act, but that does not mean that we are now in a hosanna vote because the agreement is there. The agreement is full of all kinds of measures, but it is still completely unclear what the measures mean for individual citizens and what they mean for businesses. As far as we are concerned, there are simply three criteria that will be tested every time a proposal comes up: effectiveness, justice and affordability. That will be the balance to be struck each time. We are already in a battle, if I may say so. However nice the climate tables have worked from the polder point of view, in the presentation towards the end and the reactions from the Chamber have resulted in more division and fear in society than a sense of urgency. If you want to succeed, it is necessary to share the sense of urgency and not to give priority to the fear that might still arise today. The CO levy is the best example of this. In the debate on the CO levy, industry's interests at the climate table were over-emphasised and then the CO levy was put too much on the people's plate. That has contributed considerably to the loss of support. I understand from what we can do right away, but I think that it is quite incomprehensible for anyone who would like to help the climate that we do little or do little about flying and shipping and that it mainly ends up with what we can do, namely driving, which causes less damage via CO. For 50PLUS, charging is not a taboo. It will always be about what will be effective and what will be affordable for the citizens. We also have concerns about affordability for the tenants and I thought it was a very good suggestion from Mr Heerma to see if you could do something in the points system. I can very well imagine that according to the housing rating system, points are deducted according to how far in the alphabet your label becomes. This creates an immediate incentive for landlords to tackle the homes that are the worst because they risk losing their income. At the same time, where it is not yet done, it provides compensation for the higher charges borne by the tenants. Although in theory the increase in gas prices is equivalent to a decrease in electricity prices, that depends very much on the type of house you live in and the circumstances that make you probably use much more gas than the average model. An application in the home rating system may remedy this. I'd like to hear from the Home Secretary. If you look at the total, you have to see that you are asking a lot of society. It should also be noted that you must have some understanding for older people who are wondering whether they should be entirely in debt or leave the debts to their next of kin because they have only been living in a home for a few years and still have to invest a lot. We strongly call for attention to be paid to the position of older owners and of older tenants when it comes to their own contribution. Unfortunately, for them, despite all the stories, I do not see any improvement in purchasing power; on the contrary, inflation is not compensated. So you have to be careful and make sure that you also bring that group together. That is why we, as 50PLUS, say what cannot be said often enough: the support of the citizens of the Netherlands is what matters. Also, it's about taking measures that people feel are really making a difference and feel that those who cause it are being presented with the direct account. In my view, this is the most important task facing this government with this climate agreement. With this great task, we will assess all measures individually on effectiveness, justice and affordability. That's why we don't have a hosanna vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u237	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u238	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister asked in advance for support for the plans of the coalition agreement, but of course there is a need for a debate on this. It took a while, but congratulations, Prime Minister, the leaders sitting here, the chairman, the entire Chamber and all the people involved in the climate tables. We have moved from the coalition agreement via climate tables to a draft climate agreement, and payments have been postponed by powerplay from the Prime Minister, or not. Despite social discontent and a harsh conclusion from the Plan Bureau for the Environment that the 49% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1999 would not be achieved, we have finally reached a final climate agreement, which we are discussing today. As announced in previous debates, DENK will test the Climate Agreement against a number of criteria. One: climate policy must not be a dead letter, but must actually contribute to a cleaner environment, a sustainable economy and to a world that we leave better to our children and grandchildren. Because exactly on this part we have done it saddeningly over the past decades. After 40 years of environmental policy, the painful conclusion is that the Netherlands is still dangling at the bottom of Europe with only 6.6% renewable energy. The key question now before us is: is the Climate Agreement finally going to change this? Can the government guarantee that the climate agreement will achieve the 49% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions? Mr. Chairman. I agree with all the other political parties who have today called for the agreement to be validated in the autumn by a further transfer of the PBL and the CPB. In the opinion of the cabinet, the objective is met, but the Netherlands knows this Prime Minister long enough to not always take his word for it. Mr. Chairman. I come to criterion 2: climate policy must be paid fairly and the bill must not be placed unfairly on the people of the country. "The polluter pays" is a well-known mantra. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, the Climate Agreement is taking a step in the right direction, but it is far from achieving a fair distribution of costs. The cabinet is going to change the ratio of taxes paid by households and businesses in the form of storage of renewable energy from fifty-fifty to two-thirds for business and one-third for households. Figures from the CBS show, however, that business was good for him at the beginning of 2018 and only 80% of CO emissions and households for only 20%. I ask the Prime Minister and all the other directors whether it would not be much fairer if we also set the distribution of taxes between companies and households at 80% for business and 20% for households. I see Minister Wiebes watching. He knows this position from DENK. This means that everyone pays in proportion to emissions and we really do work on the 'polluter pays' mantra. Mr. Chairman. A third point. It is with substitute shame that DENK has reviewed the plans for the so-called discount on the energy bill. This is really a classic sample of marquitian accounting. Firstly, the discount on the electricity account is partly financed by an increase in the gas account. On one side you get a crumb, while on the other side a whole bread is taken away. Secondly, the €100 discount on the energy bill is very low after an increase in the energy bill of hundreds of euros in recent years. This cabinet takes away a number of sweets first, returns one and then finds that the people in the country should be very happy with it. Thirdly, after 2021, the energy bill simply goes up again. The people in the country are therefore faced with higher costs. So there's no fair share of the cost. The people in the country are not adequately compensated. The people in the country will once again look at a higher energy bill and the companies do not pay their fair share. Mr. Chairman. On a very important point, the cabinet contradicts itself. It is always suggested that the sustainability of buildings will not involve coercion or high costs for people in the country. On the other hand, the same cabinet says that in 2050 100% of all 7 million homes and 1 million industrial buildings will be preserved. That can't be both true. On a voluntary basis, not all buildings will be preserved by 2050. There will therefore be coercion and mandatory sustainability. We will see that in the years to come. This can therefore lead to expensive water pumps combined with expensive insulation, or closure of gas pipelines and possibly district heating, which already exists and which have been the subject of huge complaints for years because of towering bills. Anyway, this is going to cost tens of thousands of euros per house. The Economic Institute for Construction came earlier with an amount of more than 400 billion euros. The yield in megatons is particularly low. According to the PBL, it lies somewhere between 0.8 and 3.4 megatons on a total of 50 megatons. The climate table built environment is the weak link in the Climate Agreement. The Climate Agreement should therefore not become a cost and burden agreement. That would undermine the support for the entire climate agreement. In this section, DENK has a lot of doubts. We will see the effects of the climate agreement plans in the coming period. We will have to take part in this. For now, I wish the Cabinet and all the parties involved in the conclusion of the Climate Agreement very much strength with the elaboration of the plans. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u239	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u240	Politics is making choices. This cabinet chooses not to invest in pensions, in AOW and nursing homes for the elderly, not to invest in housing, in security and better salaries for our policemen. The cabinet chooses not to lower taxes for hardworking Dutch people, for people with a sandwich shop or a shop, for people who can just make ends meet. No, there's no money for that. This cabinet chooses not to spend the available resources on Defense, on improving education and the public sector, on quality of life, on health care, environment and innovation. This cabinet, the cabinet of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristianUnion, chooses to spend 1,000 billion on climate control. Everything's got to go for it. 70% of our energy supply needs to be sustainable. It's in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u241	The 1,000 billion has fallen. The last time we had a climate debate here, I asked Mr Baudet if he would also have his 1,000 billion passed on to the planning agencies, so that today, when discussing the final climate agreement, we could unravel that myth with each other. In that debate, Mr Baudet promised that he would do so. My question is: when are we due to pass on the Forum for Democracy plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u242	It is nice that this question is asked, because I happened to correspond with Pieter Boot of the PBL this afternoon. It turns out that the PBL is willing to pass on all kinds of issues. The only thing is that we, as a Chamber, have to adopt a motion in which we ask that institution to do so. I will therefore indeed table a motion in the second term asking all kinds of institutions to pass on all kinds of matters. I'm assuming you'll support them, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u243	I will be assessing the motion later, but I regret that Mr Baudet's commitment of the last time, that he himself would take care of that pass-through, as Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher did, has not yet succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u244	Moments to calculate things, I am very much in favour of that, so I think we can vote for it in a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u245	That's fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u246	But I would like to inform Mr Baudet that the Planning Office for the Environment or the CPB would be happy to pass on all kinds of plans from us. You can simply send it with a short note: we would be very happy if you could take a look at this and pass it on. Then it just happens. You don't necessarily need a motion from the Chamber for that. In fact, that is a rather strange route, but I am willing to look with you to see how we can do this and, as far as I am concerned, we can send it over tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u247	We're going from good news to good news. Everything must depart for this divine rod. 70% of our energy supply needs to be sustainable. That's what the climate agreement says. The whole of the Netherlands will therefore be full of windmills and solar panels. Industry, agriculture and housing are then faced with enormous additional costs and CO taxes, which will make everything in the Netherlands more expensive. Carola Schouten is happy with that. She recently even argued that products should become more expensive. Because it's all too cheap, she thought. We'll know. Purchasing power in the Netherlands has been falling for years. The Dutch have less and less to spend, can no longer find houses and no longer establish a family. They won't be able to buy gas cars in ten years. That may not be the case anymore. So they have to go to the Tesla. Not only does that cost them an awful lot of money, it also has to double or triple the entire electricity grid to charge all those cars in the evening. Billions, billions, billions. Why would you do that? Why? If the Netherlands takes this gigantic operation, in the most optimistic scenario, if all alarmist doom scenarios are correct, this will mean 0.00007 degrees less warming for 1,000 billion, a totally unmeasurable and insignificant temperature difference. Our entire economy is being sacrificed for 0.00007 degrees less warming. When historians look back on our time in 100 years, they'll think, "What possessed them?" Is this a joke? How did this happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u248	The 1,000 billion was just my first call, the 0.0007 degrees now my second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u249	You're missing a zero. It's 0.00007 degrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u250	I just took it off your website, so on the website you have a zero less than what you say here in spoken word. But does Mr Baudet know the golden standard used in science?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u251	I do not know exactly which gold standard Mr Jetten refers to. I know the golden cut, so the ratio in architecture, which...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u252	I will help Mr Baudet, because it is right what he says; there are certainly more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u253	I know a gold standard in money, for example, the gold standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u254	It's used in science. The last time was at the Higgs particle, to determine the probability that science isn't right. That is what scientists from all over the world have done now, to the question: what are the chances that global warming, the acceleration of climate change, is not caused by man? That chance that it doesn't pass through man is 1 in 3.5 million: 0.00000029% chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u255	I do not know exactly what Mr Jetten is referring to, but I think it is undisputed that CO as a substance in itself causes a greenhouse effect. I never disputed that, if that's what you mean. What matters is how big the impact is of that one greenhouse particle compared to all other climate-related aspects that exist, for example the impact of clouds, the impact of sunspots and the impact of all kinds of other natural cycles. That is often a bit of a misunderstanding when one says: 97% agree. What is then agreed is that CO itself has a greenhouse effect. But that's not the discussion at all. The fact that there is a greenhouse effect is very beneficial, because otherwise it would have been very cold on Earth. So that there's an atmosphere, that there's some kind of solar heat going on, we're very happy about that. It's just how impactable that is and how much effect a little extra CO has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u256	Indeed, climate change is of all times and we also need CO to be able to live well on this planet. 97% of scientists only agree that we have now added so much extra CO because of human activity that there is a climate change...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u257	No, that's not true. That's pertinently incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u258	Don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u259	...so not climate change. This takes place over the centuries and that is climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u260	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u261	The probability that this climate change is not caused by man is 0.00000029%; that is what we call the golden standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u262	That's not true. So that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u263	Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u264	The province of Gelderland alone recently indicated that making it completely climate neutral, as it is called, would cost 200 billion of that province. The city of Rotterdam calculated that it would cost 50 billion to take this port city completely off the gas. But it doesn't just concern Gelderland, or only Rotterdam. The whole of the Netherlands needs to get rid of gas and all coal plants must be shut down. The whole of the Netherlands must be filled with windmills and solar panels, all cars must be replaced by electric cars, and all boats, aircraft and so on. Our whole economy needs to be kicked. 75% of the Dutch houses have a C-label or lower. The tight insulation of these houses, in order to remove them from the gas and heat them with heat pumps, costs on average between €25,000 and €100,000 per house. And if people can't afford that, they'll just have to make a loan to the climate fund. My good friend Peter R. de Vries would call this extortion. Meanwhile, in the rest of the world. 4 billion Africans who want an air conditioner. Dozens of millions of people in India want a car. Russia, the US, Turkey, Iran, Australia and so on: they continue to build coal plants. They're just continuing with a fossil fuel-based economy. We are in favour of real innovation. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. We are in favour of investing in new technologies, for thorium reactors, for water management. We are in favour of making Dutch universities, including our technical universities, the best universities in the world, the best centres of knowledge. Let us invest that within ten years, in 2030, we will pass Harvard in innovation. Let the Netherlands deliver the best dike builders in the world and sell the best catalysts to all those countries that still have to use the petrol car. Let our country invent the smartest techniques to make money from anything people want anywhere in the world. But do not sacrifice our economy to implement unbearable, non-profitable technologies. Madam President. This Climate Agreement is the longest suicide letter in Dutch history. It puts a noose on the Dutch economy. It makes it impossible for entrepreneurs to undertake yet. It makes it impossible for people to move, because driving becomes impossible. It makes it impossible to produce things. We must resist this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u265	I have a question for Mr Baudet. He makes a plea for the best universities, the best scientists, the best innovation. The brightest minds! And it's just a big part of those scientists, those universities, those innovative scientists that say, "Climate change is really driven by man." I can't rhyme with that. What do you want? Do you want scientists who fold into your fantasies and delusions or do you really want the best, the smartest scientists? What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u266	The point is, even if you believe it all, what alarmists are saying... I once again oppose the suggestion that everyone would agree on it; that is fundamentally incorrect. There is a very lively discussion among people concerned with the causes and consequences of climate change. That is also completely unclear: if it were true that it gets a bit warmer because of man, then it is still the question what is the best way to respond to it. Can't we also do something through adaptation of everything? Anyway, even if it were all true, it would be completely absurd and irrational to, as the Netherlands, that very small country that we are, almost go off the gas on our own, get rid of all the coal plants, because the rest of the world does not participate. So if it's true, it would be a global problem. Then what you have to do is invest in new technologies. You do that by developing them, you don't do that by implementing them if they're not full-bodied yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u267	Mr Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u268	Finally. There is a difference between Mr Baudet and myself and several others. There is nothing I can say to Mr Baudet that would convince him that he is wrong. That's the hallmark of a faith. While there's enough he can say to me that I think he's right. But that is not the case. That is the difference between faith and science, which Mr Baudet unfortunately does not see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u269	Mr Baudet just told Mr Jetten that 97% of scientists agree that CO has a greenhouse effect. But large-scale studies have been carried out which underline Mr Jetten's right. 97% of scientists have been researched into 12,000 publications, and the fact that the warming is caused by man is confirmed. Does Mr Baudet agree that Mr Jetten's reading is correct and not the one he has just given himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u270	I think I know what research the speaker refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u271	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u272	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u273	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u274	Yeah, he just spoke. That investigation has been knocked down. It appears to have been designed to reach a certain conclusion. You have to quantify that, of course. You take an x number of papers and then you divide them into categories. One author shares you with "believes a little that the warming comes through man," another author shares you with "believes it quite much," another author shares you with "believes it very much," and again another author "is quite sure" and so on. If you're going to look at how that's classified, then it's very clearly sent to come out at that number. If you then calculate it, if you start to see exactly what they actually believe, you'll come up with a completely different number. If it's the article of... The name slipped my mind for a second. Can you name the author? Then I'll know if we're talking about the same article.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u275	The article is called Consensus on Consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u276	Yes, but who wrote it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u277	It's a quarter to eleven!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u278	Cook.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u279	Exactly. That Cook article. That's what I thought, but the name slipped my mind. I also quoted it in one of my previous speeches. We're talking about the same article. I think Alexander Kops has also discussed it once and knocked it down, and I think Mr Wilders has done it once. It's a well-known article by a climate alarmist. It has indeed already been undermined in the scientific literature, which is so frequently referred to in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u280	So, Mr Baudet also says about all the other studies that have been carried out and which show a consensus between 90% and 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u281	Could you be a little more specific? What studies are you thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u282	There are several.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u283	But can you name one, or else it's so vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u284	Well, I think you yourself quoted a study from 2013 that was repeatedly refuted afterwards. My follow-up question concerns the consensus that exists in the rest of the world. There is a great consensus in science that global warming has been caused by man. If so, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u285	That's not true. That is not the case!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u286	Mr Baudet, Mr Heerma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u287	197 countries in the world signed the climate agreement. Have all these countries completely misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u288	What deal? The agreement of climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u289	The Paris climate agreement. This was initially signed by 196 countries, and one more has been added, so that they are now 197 countries. That is almost all the countries in the world and they have signed it all. They say it's true. Are all these countries wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u290	Saudi Arabia also signed the Convention on Women's Rights, you know. That doesn't mean much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u291	Mr Heerma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u292	Science says it's man-made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u293	No! No, science doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u294	197 countries in the world signed this climate agreement and Mr Baudet says: it is witchcraft; it is a quasi-sectarian society that wants this for mystical reasons. Where did Mr Baudet come up with that? Are all these countries ghost riders or is that Mr Baudet himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u295	There is a big difference between what countries promise in all kinds of international company games like the UN and what they actually believe. I mentioned the example of Saudi Arabia, which seems to be a warm advocate of women's rights. Yeah, I bet you do. It is also President or Vice-President of the Human Rights Council and a few more things like that. There is a huge gap in international politics between what one wants to sign and what one is actually going to implement. If you also look at what many of those countries have put into the additional protocols, then... You have not only the agreement, but also a second document, namely those protocols. If you look at what they say they're actually going to do, it turns out to be much less. They may sign it, but they say: we will implement it in our own way. China, for example, regards this as a... What's the word again? "We regard this as a recommendation that is not binding in any way" and "it is a good ambition and we will see in our own way what we will do with it." If you actually look more closely and not just repeat the headlines, then it turns out that there is no global effort at all. There are a number of countries, including the Netherlands, which are committing suicide in a number of areas. One is mass immigration and the other is climate policy. I think it is indeed completely irrational and completely unwise. I think that we really need to bring about a change in policy. This cabinet has deprived the citizens of the referendum and the citizens cannot now express their views directly on this Climate Agreement. I am only convinced that if we could, we would be voting overwhelmingly against this Climate Act and the resulting Climate Agreement. In fact, I suspect that is one of the reasons why this cabinet has abolished the referendum at an early stage. It was felt that they would never get through the climate measures they wanted to push through if they did not kill that referendum first. But of course there will be parliamentary elections. I am convinced that the Dutch people...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u296	Thank you, Mr Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u297	...then her voice will be heard again. Until then, we shall make this sound. We have, Madam President, by the way, prepared a repeal law. So if we become part of the coalition after the next elections, then that is one of the very first things we will submit. This climate agreement, and the climate law underneath, will and must be removed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u298	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u299	I see a number of spokesmen aren't here yet. The Chamber has spoken for more than three hours, so I would like to give the Cabinet the opportunity to answer the questions raised in the first term in a calm manner. Once again, I am not going to limit the number of interruptions, but I am going to intervene again and often, after almost every sentence, ask a question. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u300	Mr. Chairman. It's there, the climate agreement. That was an important ambition from the Rutte III coalition agreement. As we see here, the conversation is irrevocable not only about climate and technical measures, but also and above all about the household wallet, our house, our car and our jobs. From the beginning, the motto was "feasible and affordable." This was also the motto of many people here in this Chamber. The result is, after that period, that companies are going to pay more, that energy taxes for households are going to go down and that we are talking about "enticing" and not about "obligatory." All in all, I think there is a very balanced package. And this is due to intensive consultation with the climate tables but also with this Chamber. I will come back to that later, but as far as I am concerned it is the Netherlands at its best. Here's what I want to do. I would like to answer a number of questions that have been asked about the process. Questions have been asked about the effects on households and on SMEs. I would then like to answer the questions about industry. I think only one question has been asked about electricity development. A number of questions have been asked about Urgenda. I'm gonna end up with that. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer all questions about the built environment and the Secretary of State of IenW about the questions that have been asked about mobility. Then we have the Minister of LNV here, who has her affairs in such a way that there were no further questions. And we have the Prime Minister for moral support, and who can you have better than him? Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement we spoke of a climate agreement, 49% reduction compared to 1990. And we've done that like you do a climate agreement: at 5 tables with more than 150 parties. In my opinion, even after this whole process, this is certainly not the fastest method, but it is the method that gives the most public support. To this end, the discussion has been very broad, because at those tables organisations such as VNO and BOVAG have been fraternally together with Greenpeace and FNV, all these periods, and have produced a result with each other there. But in all honesty, and there is good reason for that, the fingerprints of this Chamber are also clearly on the agreement. Then it is not just about coalition parties, but also about opposition parties. Because opposition parties have also called for a lower energy bill throughout this process. GroenLinks, let me be honest, has been fighting for a real, legally secured, CO levy from the very beginning. Has also been concerned from the very beginning about shooting through the area of CCS. The Labour Party has constantly called for attention to be paid to the labour market. Mr Moorlag has not failed to bring that up every time, and for good reason. And fair is fair, also the SP has repeatedly argued for an ODE shift in favour of households. That was all in the run-up and we have all taken that into account in the decision-making process. This means that a number of changes have been made to the climate agreement since December compared to the design. The tax on the energy bill has been mentioned. The heat fund has been mentioned. That there will be no increase in the charges for the petrol driver. The research into payment for use has been mentioned. A greater contribution from industry to the ODE, a real shift. A real CO levy. A real limitation of CCS, and a truly ambitious hydrogen program. All this was added after the previous version. In the agricultural sector it has been achieved to produce considerably more tonnes. And in the field of electricity, the netting arrangement is still a fact for some time to come. We are doing this because there is a shared commitment here, including in this Chamber, that everyone participates and nobody lags behind. Mr Asscher is the one who has paid the most attention to this in this debate. I think he's put it on the line again that everyone should be in on it. That means not only homeowners, but also tenants. Not only the Tesla rider, but also my mother, who has a 21-year-old Toyota. Also low-income people, including those without loan space, also people who are not currently planning to grow their homes and also older people. Not only do we want everyone to be able to pay for it, but everyone needs to be helped, seduced. Or we'll have to look at it every year. Many of these points will also be addressed by my colleague Mr Ollongren. Questions have also been asked specifically about the Heat Act. I'll come back to that a little later. I would like to say to Mr Asscher that there is no solution now. It is not so that we say: there is one problem now and we are now going to come up with one big solution. Let's be honest. This plays until 2050. We have to make our intention that this should be a little more consistent with the rhythm of the Climate Act, which we have made for this, that we should put in the thermometer every year to see if it can be done, whether no one is left behind, individuals but also groups, and whether measures should be taken to that end. The BZK Minister's commitment is that everyone will go along, but that has also been agreed, among other things with the municipalities. In that context, we need to see that. It is not a matter of solving something now, because if we solve something now, there will be something to solve next year. That must be the system. The effect on the lowest incomes. Of this, I must say that, unlike what was supposed to be in the contribution, there is not yet a pass-through of this package. The income effects of this climate agreement package are expected to be very limited. The tax reduction on the energy account is designed so that the lowest incomes benefit relatively most. Again, the energy bill tax goes down, doesn't go up, continues to rise much slower in the period up to 2030 and doesn't exceed the level of 2019. Not only the energy bill and households were a concern, but also SMEs. A shift of charges from households to companies has been chosen. That is all companies, but most of that shift, more than half of it, comes from industry. So out of all the 100,000 companies that would be eligible for this, half of the 300 industrial companies that are the biggest extortionists. SMEs in the first and second discs are not affected by this, so SMEs with relatively small consumption are not going to pay any more. It is the larger companies, especially the industry, that are going to pay more. Of course, we're never without concern. It is Mr Heerma, for example, who shares a concern. He rightly says that employment effects deserve permanent attention. That's right. That is what resources have been made available for. It's a policy. It's getting permanent attention. Secondly, we have to keep ensuring that sustainable living does not mean more expensive living. And we must always pay attention to the fact that the sustainability of industry is also genuinely sustainable and not just stretching old techniques for a while. That's why we added the hydrogen economy. But we also need to see it from opportunities. I will go into this more closely with the industry block, but we really have a real chance here of a better locational environment for sustainable industry. We really need to bet heavily on that. This should create more jobs rather than less. We have a real chance of getting a lead position in hydrogen. We have a real chance of new jobs. At the bottom of the labour market, which has been somewhat eroded over the past few decades, all kinds of new work is now emerging. And we end up becoming less dependent on oil countries. The air is getting cleaner, traffic quieter, our house more comfortable. That's what we get. Before I go to industry and the electricity sector, I would like to answer a few more general questions. Mr Segers, for example, wonders what lessons we can take in terms of governance. How are we gonna steer this big device? There are a few lessons. One of them is that we have agreed on a parliamentary rhythm. I'm sure that's part of the climate bill. It helps enormously to set targets, but it also helps to have annual moments in between when we look at the situation and what we're going to do about it if it doesn't work out. That in itself is the heartbeat of parliamentary control. What's also important is that we work as one government. That is why there is an administrative consultation where all the governments sit at the table and share the issues with each other. It is also important that we have independent mathematicians. And in the end, I am counting on us to have tough MPs who are going to work on these independent calculation results and appeal to the government again. These are the ingredients of governance. Mr Stoffer asks: wouldn't we be mapping out something else about SMEs? That's right. This is currently being done, including the financial consequences of the adjustment of the energy tax and the ODE shift. Hopefully that will be sent to the Chamber in the autumn. Then we can see what that means for the different types of SMEs. Mr Jetten wondered what this meant for the legislation. I just put that in a note, but that might have been very concise. We can now roughly indicate the legislation in which it intervenes. I'm trying to put down a real legislative agenda at the end of the year. We want to show that in this cabinet period we come to an end with the implementation. That also has to do with that trustworthy government. So at the end of the year I intend to present a legislative calendar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u301	I think you were finishing this part, the first subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u302	I have two more general things and then I go to industry. They also asked what exactly is being passed on by whom and when. There are quite practical obstacles to this. The Planning Office for the Environment comes with an isolated calculation that does not yet contain the new measures, and then provides a so-called partial pass-through of the Climate Agreement. This means that compared to the standard image, you show what the Climate Agreement adds, not integral but partial. That's because of lack of time. What also failed at the Plan Bureau for the Environment this year was a separate calculation of the Urgenda package. That is sad in itself, because that is exactly what you would like to know. However, we have estimated the effects of the measures on the basis of and with experts. That's pretty tough on you. But at the moment there is no separate and partial calculation of the PBL in the pen. What needs to be done, but what remains to be asked of the CPB is to update the burden and income picture on this basis. Then we also know what the revenue effects are. Finally, a question which is related to the built environment but which is on my property. Several speakers expressed concern about this; Mr Asscher mentioned it, but Mr Heerma also mentioned it. That reasoning goes as follows. We now have a shift in the energy load. That means gas is getting more expensive. Part of the heat users are no longer tied to the gas price. Moreover, the increase in heat prices is not an automatism at all. It is a maximum and certainly not a minimum, so if the costs of the heat grid don't rise, that price doesn't have to rise at all. But it could be. Then those people will be disadvantaged. I don't think that's strictly true. Even if these rates were to rise with the gas price again, that is not necessary and nothing indicates that this is happening everywhere even then their situation is similar to that of people who use gas. So whether you use a heat grid that is linked to the gas price or gas that is linked to the gas price, the gas prices go up and accordingly the electricity prices go down and the return of the energy tax increases. For a household with average consumption, this should still be the €100. Unless the heat grid is not increased accordingly with the gas price, the advantage is greater for these residents. Nevertheless, I am looking Mr Asscher in the eye. He looks at me with the question of how logical it is to keep the gas reference when we get off the gas. That doesn't make any sense. Work is underway on a new Heat Act. It has to work in a different way. It won't be linked to the gas price anymore. That's what we're rushing into. There is no greater haste than the greatest rush, but I do admit that we are not dragging it unnecessarily and that we are driving a Heat Act that no longer contains the gas price reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u303	I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u304	I am ready with the general piece and I stand ready to start industry but of course only after I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u305	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u306	Thank you for the commitment that by the end of this year we will have a legislative agenda arising from the Climate Agreement. I can imagine that some of the proposals will be picked up at a more rapid pace. Could the Minister promise that Princess Day will tell us what legislation will come to the Chamber in the near future so that we can prepare ourselves for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u307	I have no objection to a stand-in with Princess Day. We can talk about it for a very long time, but I think everyone thinks that we should get to work on it now, because he knows that if we get to work on it, the things that we need to fix will come across quickly, and Mr Jetten because he thinks that we need to get to work on it anyway, and that is what many think. I'll take care of a stand like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u308	I understand very well that there is not one solution to a complex set of problems. I have tried to point out in the debate that with the text that is now before us there are at least three groups that are concerned that they are not being treated fairly, because they cannot do so much about it and yet face rising prices. I am not asking for a solution now, but I would very much like to, and I have the impression that this is something that lives with more parties, that it is clear that this problem is being solved, that housing costs are not something that is only macro, gross mode, but precisely for those groups that cannot do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u309	Well, that's a question that, in more specific cases, belongs to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He'll go into that. I keep saying that we now think there are three of those problems that we might be able to solve now, if they are problems. But next year, something else will turn up that neither of us have thought of. Then, too, we must have the agreement that we will look at it again. The Minister of State and I have also agreed with the municipalities that we look at it every time, because those municipalities also say: we do not have as much use for it as it is macro-wonenlastsneutral. So there is that concern and we really have to see it every year over the next 31 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u310	Can I listen to that in such a way that the Minister actually says: I agree that there should be a solution for these three groups, but we do not rule out the fact that there are other groups that have problems, and we also need to resolve them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u311	I would just like to ask whether there is a problem for these three groups and what problem that is. If that's what's going on, then that's what needs to be looked at. I can't judge that. I am just saying that we have to keep a good look at the rhythm of that once a year, because things are about to emerge that we do not yet foresee. So it's something that needs to be incorporated into the system anyway instead of talking about three separate things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u312	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u313	Finally. This debate is also about the political orientations of what we want. The Minister says: if there is no problem, then we do not have to solve it. I agree. That's a way to get far away from it. My question was about tenants who can't do anything about it, people who depend on tariffs that they don't have any influence on, because they have no alternatives, and buyers who can't do anything about it. Can we at least say here what "housing expenses neutral" means for those three groups? I can still see that there are intentions, but I don't see... Can we agree to make sure those people don't go backwards? Then I fully agree with you. If the problem doesn't exist, great. If there's a law that solves all the problems: fantastic. But I see these problems. In fact, a lot of tenants and buyers also see and approach these problems. They are genuinely concerned about this. So we should not postpone it and do something in 31 years' time. Then we just have to say now: we will solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u314	The term "living expenses neutral" should be given content for everyone. Let us look at the input of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to see whether and how the existing instruments are working on them, and how we can promote them if they are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u315	The Minister is quite honest. He says: there will be problems for people, and perhaps new problems. He also says that we should look at that at the time. But a lot of people really hang that like a sword of Damocles. That doesn't only apply when you're in a drafty rental house. You won't be able to take the train to work at the same time. You'd be in a lot of trouble by now. I very much liked the fact that when the climate agreement was presented on 21 December, the Minister said quite honestly: the cabinet also stands for the fact that households and SMEs do not bear the cost of the transition in industry. Isn't that an agreement we have to make here? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u316	I believe that's exactly why we did the ODE slide. We announced this on 13 March, and that is precisely why. I will come back to the industry later, or actually now, and I will say a little more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u317	That's an onsie. I'm very happy about that. That is also an onus we have of course often fought for. We have always argued that it is unfair that so many of these green taxes have to be paid by households, but most of the revenue does not go to households. That was actually my specific question. We still see that households and SMEs are going to pay more. I would very much like to have that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u318	We made a "one third/two third" slide. This means not only that industry is already going to pay more, but also that the rise is higher. At the same time, it does not only mean that households are starting to pay less of this tax right now, but also that the rise is less for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u319	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u320	That's clear. I also understand that the Minister only likes to talk about that part. But there are many more subsidies that industry can make use of, more than it pays. This means that households and SMEs do pay for these costs. Those problems, which the Minister really sees coming, he is honest about them; households can get into trouble and can pay more than they can actually bear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u321	Let me tell you the industry story. Then I come to this point, because this is a question that has also been asked by others. Mr Klaver mentioned this point, for example. I'll get to that later. I think it would be more useful to do that in a logical order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u322	I had a question about the transfer from the PBL. The Minister gives all kinds of practical reasons. I simply cannot imagine that there is no complete pass-through of such an important package as it is now and that this autumn it will have to land in the climate plan. This will again be the INEK sent to Europe. I hope that we will urge the PBL to ensure that there is an integral review of all the plans that are now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u323	I think the wish makes perfect sense. Maybe I was a little disappointed, too. On the other hand, I must of course say that the PBL warned me. If I'd turned everything in on May 1st, I'd probably have succeeded. So I certainly can't put that on the PBL. I can pass on the requests, but Mr Klaver should know that we have already made a number of these requests from the cabinet. However, I am never too bad to pass on a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u324	In my opinion, it would be a good idea for the Chamber to give its opinion on this, so that it is really very clear for the PBL that it should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u325	Sure. At the same time, it must of course be very clear that the cabinet is not about the PBL. Possibly, the Chamber has much more influence than the Cabinet. This would be a nice test case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u326	That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u327	At least that would be of benefit to us. I wouldn't be ashamed of that. (NL) Mr President, then the industry. We want a real transition to a truly sustainable industry in the Netherlands. Not only the climate targets need to be met, but we also need to prepare ourselves for 2050. The strategy set out here is that we really want to start earlier than industries abroad. That's what we want to build a head start with. Building a lead requires an extra effort at the beginning, but in the end we become a more attractive location for sustainable industry. I think we have a big chance of that. If I describe the ideal location for sustainable industry in 2030 or 2050, it must be a place by the water. We are at one of the most windy seas in the world with huge opportunities for wind at sea and supply of green hydrogen. We have offshore gas fields that we can fill with CO to make the transition from grey to green hydrogen. We have a great nautical accessibility, one of the best in the world. If the circular economy really gets going and everything you send to the hinterland comes back as waste, then at the same time we have the best hinterland connections. We have an enormous density. We're intertwined. We have the proximity of low-temperature heat demanders. They're all around. That's only in the Netherlands. We've made a search for the country that has all these conditions. And so far that's the Netherlands. If we can add an extensive residual heat infrastructure and an extensive CO infrastructure for reuse of CO2 and hydrogen infrastructure, then we are the country where we need to be a sustainable industry. Because here the cost of producing sustainably is simply the lowest. That's an opportunity that beckons. We want that to happen here and not elsewhere. 'Cause we're gonna waste that opportunity. Whether you're looking for sustainability or just for high-quality employment, whatever you want, the leaking out of jobs and emissions is never an advantage for anyone. There's no one who wants to. That's not a trade-off. You never want this. I have spoken on a number of occasions with the representatives of the Or's about employment. This morning, they were here in front of the building. They have real concerns about employment. I understand. PricewaterhouseCoopers' report is not without concern either. Those real questions are there and ask for a variant that works with the least risks. That variant wasn't what the table turned out to be. Mr. Klaver said the cabinet variant didn't work. Whether it was off the table, from the cabinet or from both a little bit: he's right, it didn't work. It fell through the ice and was judged insufficient by the independent referee. At that time, I announced that I would put on the table a sensible CO2 tax according to the recipe 'but the barrels, not the leak'. It's there. We'll get the barrels. Mr Asscher said that he still had doubts about this. The CO levy that was in the pieces seemed softer to him than that of the Planning Bureau for the Environment. That is expressly not the intention. It is explicitly intended that variant 1, which has been calculated by the Planning Bureau for the Environment... We also later asked whether the way in which we had written that material changed the variant or whether it actually would reach the barrels and that was confirmed. But I say this to Mr Asscher. If it looks like the barrels are not being made by some kind of play of nature, altered insights or an impacting comet, then the barrels will still be made, because then we will adapt it, or in the operation, at the rate or in whatever, to make sure that this table also gets its tons. The industry has promised that. There is no resistance to meeting the climate objectives. At the same time, we have chosen the variant with the least risk of job losses. The Planning Office for the Environment has calculated this in a certain way. The Planning Office for the Environment doesn't see that much difference between the variants. PricewaterhouseCoopers' report looked micro-economically and also on the basis of cost comparisons with abroad and concludes that the basic variant has some risk of leakage and the other variants logically more. That's not surprising, microeconomically. So the variant that reaches the barrels has been chosen. Mr Heerma has also made an appeal. He said: stick the industry to the climate targets and minimize job extraction. That's exactly what this variant does. At the same time, it has been asked what the industry will pay and whether this is more or less than it receives. I haven't vetted the entire industry subsidy portfolio. There are 80 types of subsidies in the Netherlands, but we are talking here about the subsidies associated with the Climate Agreement. I assume that's what the discussion is about. I sent the documents. The bells were there this morning. I believe that Mr Klaver's billion-dollar figure is based on a calculation made by the Plan Bureau for the Environment in the framework of the draft climate agreement. That's out of date. There are now other variants. We have developed a variant that has been calculated separately by the Planning Bureau for the Environment. It comes from the fact that CO savings in industry are limited to 550 million, but that there could still be roughly 50 million of renewable energy subsidies, i.e. the SDE+, by 2030. The department itself does not yet see where that should be, but it could. If I follow the PBL in it, it will generate a cumulative amount of approximately 3 billion to be received over the next 11 years. The already known ODE is a large 5 billion, so these amounts relate in that way to each other. I say honestly that you can fill in the starting point that the industry always pays everything in ten ways. It's just what kind of grant you bring in. I'm sure you can still find things outside the climate agreement. But there's one thing that matters. We really have something to do with this, and I am responsible for it, too, because we do not want industry to go away or invest less, so that we end up losing jobs. That's what really matters. We're really dealing with work here. I have greatly admired the fact that there have been two parties who have put their variant through. All due respect, more people in this room should do that. But you can see that if you shoot through, it's complicated. With that, I'll follow the PwC report. With this I follow the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers and I like to keep it on a variant with the lowest risk of road leakage and with now just certainty about the barrels. Again, if changed insights don't get the barrels, they'll get there anyway, because then something happens to the price or whatever. I'm going on. There is another suggestion from Mr Otterloo. He was worried about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u328	From Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u329	From Otterloo. He said that he found it confusing that the CO levy in industry came mainly on the household plate. I really have to take this concern away, because the CO levy in industry only comes from industry and not from households. That seems to me to be an excessive concern. I have already shared with Mr Klaver that this is more than just a levy in industry. We have also taken measures to minimise CCS and we are working on the front-runner position in hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u330	I've seen you, Mr. Van Otterloo, but I'll see if the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u331	I'm not quite done with this piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u332	I would like to propose that this be concluded. Then I will go to Mr Klaver and Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u333	Yeah, I'll finish it. In order to bring this about with the industry, I note that we have deviated quite roughly on a number of fronts of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u334	It's very restless in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u335	Yeah, that's true. There's a lot of negotiation going on. We have deviated from the coalition agreement in a rather fundamental way. For example, we introduced a CO levy where it was definitely not in the documents. And we limited CCS where it was clearly not meant to; there was even 20 megatons of CCS in the coalition agreement. The SDE would become available to industry without any restrictions and it will not, because we have capped it. Moreover, the shift of the ODE is an increase in the burden on industry compared to the basic path set out in the coalition agreement. So we have had to deviate from that in all kinds of areas, but I think that all this is justified. I did that, listening to this room. It was also necessary in some cases to reach the tonnes, because without a CO tax we would not be able to reach the tonnes. Period. That's what's needed. I note that this has actually happened. I have one more point on the labour market in industry. Mr Asscher says that there must be a good plan now. All kinds of agreements have been made in the ESC context. If Mr Moorlag had not followed me in the way he did, that would not have been the case. Let me be honest with you. Then it would probably have been wrong, so thank you for that. There are many areas of concern, such as sufficient staff, good jobs and reducing and absorbing job losses, which now need to be developed in a concrete implementation agenda at ESC level. I suggest that we wait for that implementation agenda. 22 million have been earmarked and there has been extensive consultation with the Minister for Social Affairs. With the social partners, but also in the ESC context, we are going to develop this further in that implementation agenda. I cannot predict exactly when it will be ready, but then it will have to be adjusted over and over again. So much for the piece on industry. I assume there are some additional questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u336	The disadvantage of waiting for such a whole block is that it is said so much that it is difficult to clear everything up. Is there really a hard cap on the amount of money that industry is entitled to under the subsidy schemes, or is it just an assessment? This is an important question. My second question concerns the CO tax. I think it's useful to focus on what the planning agencies are saying here. The Plan Bureau for the Environment indicates that variant 1 is such a margin charge and variant 2 is a combination of those two and that there is not much difference between them in terms of road leak. When it comes to the yield in tons, it's getting more secure. Reference is made to the PwC report, but I have a great deal of criticism of it. PwC in no way looks at what is being locked back. PwC only looks at the money we collect and not at the money we put back. That's a big difference from the PBL transfer. So I would really like the cabinet to take another critical look at that, including the PwC report. Can the Minister respond to both?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u337	The cap for the SDE++ is a hard cap. That wasn't the case in December. Then it was an estimate. Now it's a cap. That means it's gonna stay there, too. The Planning Office for the Environment does not see much difference in the area. PricewaterhouseCoopers can tell the difference. PricewaterhouseCoopers is not retarded. This has been looked at microeconomically. If you increase marginal costs, it is obvious that the competitive position is getting worse. That's even true if you put that back at sector level. Indeed, it is done at sector level and not at company level, and certainly not at order level. I would also like to say on this point that if we are inclined on other fronts to follow expert experts who have looked carefully at something, perhaps we could do the same here. We also had speakers here who questioned everything. I propose that we follow expert experts who have looked at this in a completely plausible way micro-economic way. This variant was also discussed with the economists who were present at the time. They also say that this is a plausible way to achieve climate change in a sensible way. Mr Klaver could then say that greater certainty is given to the other variant. That's true. The higher the flat charges, the greater the security. This will also increase the certainty that competitiveness will deteriorate. I think Mr Klaver will appreciate that it has been chosen only in industry to ensure that the target is achieved not at 50%, the midpoint, but at 75%. Unlike all other sectors, we demand greater probability from industry. You can do that by stacking all kinds of charges on top of each other. Here, it has been chosen to look for this in the level of taxation and to have it established by the PBL itself. This is about how the snake bites its own tail. We ask the Planning Office for the Environment to fix the levy in such a way that we achieve the goal with 75% certainty. Then we'll ask the PBL if we're gonna make it to the target. That says: yes, you're achieving the goal with fairly great certainty. I would have difficulty having an ideological debate on this. Every time we talk about charges, I think about those people on the Square, all with an orange shirt and a helmet. Those are the people who made our products, even in shiftwork. In the direction of Mr Klaver, I say that it will not take any effort to come up with ten more ways to tax the industry, but this is the levy where we achieve the goals with greater certainty than elsewhere. We already have that in writing, we already have certainty about it and we have the least leakage. Let's not find a risky solution to a non-existent problem. Every time we do that, it becomes more ideological for me. I'm gonna have to think about those people back at the Square.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u338	Mr. Klaver. I see you're quiet about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u339	I'm actually in a good mood, because the Dutch team is through. I'm trying to work through what the Secretary of State says here. On PwC's report, I would like a slightly more critical consideration. Yeah, it's a company-level analysis, but the backlock wasn't taken. They say that this is done at sector level; we cannot see what this means for the different companies. That doesn't mean the money doesn't end up in those companies. The PBL is certainly looking at that. It is not that I am inventing something new, or that I am now saying from a very ideological point of view that we should have a combined tax. That is what the PBL or the cabinet itself has brought in. It's a variant that the Cabinet has passed on; not us. I thought it was a sensible variant. The PBL is very positive about it. I find it strange to make such a retreating move because PwC writes a report showing that the risk is greater. Here's what I think we should do. Even with such a flat charge and a combination, we make it easier for the future to adjust. If it doesn't work, then no major policy changes are needed. There's already a button that you can turn if you need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u340	In this debate, we have things where we might expect frictions or problems and where we have to go, but now we have a sector here that is the only one with the highest probability of all tables that guarantees the achievement of the goals and that to all micro-economic insights...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u341	I have to interrupt you. It's very restless in the room. I think it's important that we just listen. It's very disturbing, I'm just saying to a number of MPs without mentioning names. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u342	I'm taking up the argument again. We have here the only sector that already has certainty from the PBL about achieving the goals, with a higher probability than anywhere else, where there is no doubt that an additional levy will lead to additional leakage, including of jobs. So here we are looking for a risky solution to a non-existent problem. There is still work to be done in many areas, but this sector has a solution that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u343	Finally. I believe that the electricity table is at least as secure and that the PBL has already indicated what the results will be in 2030. There are more sectors. Again, I think it's really important. I would also like to ask the Minister not to push what is now being proposed into some ideological angle. It is a variant that the cabinet itself has devised, which the cabinet itself has passed on, of which the Planning Bureau for the Environment said: in fact, this variant works even better than the variant that the cabinet finally chose. But the cabinet believes a report from a consultancy firm more than what the Planning Office writes for the Environment. That's the difference I'm pointing out. I am not referring to any ideological debate. This is the only difference I'm pointing out. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u344	No. The Planning Office for the Environment says that the price of that margin levy should go down as you add more charges. Here we have chosen to take a firm price for this and have it determined by the Planning Bureau for the Environment itself, with that high probability. This is a highly likely variant made by the PBL itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u345	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u346	On page 23 of the PBL note, they themselves indicate that variant 2, where the flat charge and a margin charge are being worked, has no additional effect on driving companies across borders and closing companies. That's what the PBL itself indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u347	Yes, and according to other methods and comparisons with abroad based on figures, you also come to different conclusions. The risks are greater and I don't want to run them, because I want to get the barrels, but I don't want a leak. I do not want to be held back later to admit that we should have done it differently with less leakage, but that we have chosen something that I do feel politically sounds good, but I cannot fail to think of those people with helmets in that square all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u348	Two things. The minister quoted me in a story about the CO and the citizens. What I said was that I felt that the presentation of the Climate Agreement as it was in the first instance affected the public's support because the burden was placed in the wrong proportion: more on citizens than on businesses. So that's a slightly different relationship from what's come to be. At the same time, I have to say that I am here now, I believe, ten minutes to hear the story. This also indicates that there is not yet a clear story to make it clear that it is now fundamentally different and that it does indeed come from the companies. That was my first point. My second comment is this. I've been to the presentation of the three reports. Honestly, I wasn't convinced of the road leaks there. That was not because of the spelling error, but because of the ceteris paribus attitude, as if nothing would change in the rest of Europe and so there is only change in the Netherlands and companies can just leave for other countries, because they do nothing about the CO. So I think the danger of leaking out is somewhat exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u349	I don't think there'd be any clarity about the variants. What is going on is that Mr Klaver and I are both convinced, I think, that the burden is shifting to industry. But he's got a different preference for that than the cabinet. But there is in itself clarity about what's in the pieces. Furthermore, I fully agree with the speaker that as foreign countries do more, we can also do more. That is why we are talking very intensively to the most beloved Eastern neighbours. Their industry is directly competitive with ours. We are in intensive dialogue to see whether things can be done together, whether things can be done in the same way, because we know that we are dependent on each other in that sense. So I very much support that, and as our neighbouring countries become more involved, much more can be done here. And then the risk of leaking away is really much smaller. That is also the way: a European approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u350	I have two brief questions. I am very pleased that the Minister just in response to Mr Asscher's question confirmed that the variant of CO levy chosen by the cabinet is the same as variant 1 and the PBL transfer. I have a question about that. At some point, that bill comes to the Chamber. Then we'll have to assess that. Is that bill then again being submitted to PBL for review or advice, to double-check again: do we now have a legislative proposal that will achieve those goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u351	Yes. In fact, before the legislative proposal is made, we have decided to ask the PBL again what the price curve is with which we achieve that goal. This is what we do to make sure that what comes into that law also leads to the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u352	That's great. Then there's my second question. The Minister spoke very briefly in the block about industries about the circular economy: real savings throughout the industrial chain. The PBL has also shown once in the accounts that if we manage to create that whole circular chain in the Netherlands, on top of the 14.3 megatons, we could save 6 to 7 megatons extra, while creating a whole new earning model for the industry. My question to the Minister is: what can the cabinet do in the near future to help industry really get this circular economy off the ground in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u353	Maybe I should ask the Secretary of State for IenW to go into that further. It is quite clear that in the Netherlands, too, we are very well positioned by the accessibility, by the intertwinedness of the industries and by the density of the industries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u354	But that's what the Secretary of State will come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u355	Yes, the Secretary of State will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u356	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u357	Then I'll go into electricity. Mr Stoffer has asked a question about this and I always invite him to do so, because we both think that this is very important about security of supply and the peaks and the valleys. Then I would like to confirm once again that we are also working in a pentalateral context, so with neighbouring countries it sounds like five, but there are more people working on this security of supply. We do this not only by building adjustable power, but also by directing on demand and by thinking about large-scale storage. It is also done by interconnection, because a very large part of the problems can be solved by making them better. TenneT analyses this every year. So, internationally, we work together there. So this is an extremely important subject, if only because I graduated from it once. Then we have questions about Urgenda, and I understand that. That's a struggle I'd like to present to you. The judge's ruling was in June 2015. Then it became clear that there was a verdict and that it had to be carried out. In October 2016, we were faced with a possible deficit of 4 megatons, scheduled for 2020. In December it was decided to take everything out of the closet and to implement it through the energy agreement. Furthermore, the ROAD project, CCS at a coal power station, was also presented and it was said that it was conceivable to close a coal power station. In April, all additional actions were announced by the Committee on Security, Security and Defence Policy, the Energy Agreement was drawn up and there were all additional things. At that time, a new estimate was eagerly awaited, and in October 2017, with all these additional measures, it was again 4. So the reality had traveled as hard for us as the additional measures. Even then, the idea was that the 4 was bridgeable and was also reported that the target was within reach. In February 2018, to reach those 4 additional measures were announced under the Energy Agreement. For example, we owe this to the obligation to provide information on energy saving measures and so on. A huge catch-up has been launched to bring wind on land even further, the 6,000 megawatt wind on land. There has been a lot of talk with regional directors about this. Everyone knows what problems there have been, but there too they have been tried. In January 2019 came the new estimate. Then you think "we were on 4 and we took extra measures," but then we turned out to be on 9. Yeah, that worked out, especially with me. I thought we could get an end and the target would still be in range and down below 4. What did it have to do with that? The higher than previously estimated economic growth, the changed understanding of statistics, the adjustment of emissions. In the petrochemical industry, 2.5 megatons were added by statistical adjustments. So we had added 5.5 megatons to things that weren't in sight before. So that hole hadn't gotten smaller at all, but just got bigger. All this time we've been dragging wind on land and also on energy saving, but the gap didn't get smaller, it just got bigger. In the NEV 2016 we still assumed 68 petajoule energy savings. In the meantime we assume 81 petajoule, but the hole is not smaller, but bigger. In retrospect, we can guarantee that we would have been better off in the past as well. The gap that came up, that 5, strictly 5,5 in extra task, was quite considerable. We walked in on that 0.5. Now what? It is necessary to see the Urgendavonnis in conjunction with the measures of the Climate Agreement. This can be done in different ways, for example by trying to push forward some of the things in the Climate Agreement. This will enable us to benefit from measures under the Climate Agreement. We'll try. At the same time, we must ensure that we do not run towards the 2020 target, that the support base for 2030 disappears, because that would put the climate at a disadvantage rather than a benefit. There is no doubt about it: that verdict is simply the verdict. There are Members who have just spoken firm words about this. There's no denying it either. The verdict is the verdict, and the aim is still to achieve that task. That just keeps going. There's no other way. It's not easy, but there's nothing else to be done. Stopping it is not an option. We are looking at additional measures. Another 40 just landed at the station. We are looking at measures to accelerate the Climate Agreement. There are still measures such as the extension of the netting scheme. That too could have an effect. We are looking at the update of the recognised list of measures. That too can have an effect. Stopping is not an option. I don't have any other lyrics for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u358	Are you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u359	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u360	An interruption by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u361	I would like to express my appreciation for the Minister, but at the same time his answer has a high and then-and-then level. I thought, we'd sister, we'd be so. Those aren't usually the best stories, but none of that's okay. What's the minister gonna do, what's he gonna promise and promise about an acceleration, about an all-out-the-caste ambition? Because that's not what I hear him say. He says we're gonna look at it and we're gonna strive for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u362	I can only promise that I will continue to look for the measures that we can take and which meet those criteria. That's what I'm promising. Anything else would be nonsense, because this is what I'm supposed to do; I'm just gonna keep going. It could also be that the measures we have taken have a greater effect, because the Urgenda list of 40 measures... If we estimate the measures taken by the Cabinet, according to the Urgendaaling, we'll pick up a lot more megatons than those four. Then we'll pick up seven. If Urgenda's right, it's also a fluke. We have been rather sparing in the estimate, and that is what a government is capable of in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u363	Mr Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u364	The minister's a little provocative, because he's doing it again: if this isn't so bad, then... In the judgments that are already before us, the judge has shot down those criteria, and I do not think Mr Wiebes is aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u365	I don't know if there's much I don't know. I do not think otherwise about the verdict than Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u366	I suggest you move on, because I think you were almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u367	Mr President, I think I was ready. Let me look at the questions of the various spokesmen. There's another one of Mr. Stoffer's. He says that the SDE++ should not be limited to heavy industry. He is absolutely right, because this SDE++ is also open to companies other than heavy industry. I thought I might have one more question, but I don't. This was the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u368	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u369	Many thanks, Mr President, and also thanks to the Orange Lionesses, because thanks to them the energy is back in this debate. I also noticed it earlier with Mr Klaver. At least that's the case with me. Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions that have been asked about the built environment. A lot has been said about that, and I understand that very well. We are now at the beginning of a major transition, also with this climate agreement. At the same time, I think it is also important not to make that great task that we face so great that it scares people very much. We are therefore going to achieve that great ambition with small steps. We think it is very important that we make it easy and that we make it as cheap as possible. That is something that some have just emphasised. At the same time, we also consider it important to be realistic. If you want the entire built environment in the Netherlands to be preserved in 2050, you must also realize that this is a big task. That is all the houses, all the schools, all the offices and all the other buildings there are. I will deal very specifically with the questions that have been asked about this, but I say in advance that we have taken as our starting point that we want to include people in it. No one is forced to make his or her house more sustainable now. No one is forced to invest. We choose the approach of seducing people by encouraging them with subsidies and by tackling it through the municipalities, which frees whole neighbourhoods of natural gas. We are helping with the funding, for example with the heat fund that I am about to talk about. We do this further by reducing the tax portion of the energy bill. We're at the beginning, we're taking small steps, but we do know what we're working towards. Mr Nijpels, who is still here, was the chairman of the whole. I recall Diederik Samsom, because I am also very grateful to him for his work as chairman of the table of the built environment. We believe that in that built environment we can indeed achieve that reduction by 3.4 megaton. We do that step by step, carefully and affordable, because we have time. Mr Asscher, I think, spoke first of all about the position of some groups in society and said that it is very important here. I believe that the third group in Mr Asscher's speech is the people who get heat from a heat grid, where the gas price and the heat grid price are linked. Mr Wiebes has just replied. That is what we are seeing, and that is what we are going to address. Then there are the other two groups Mr Asscher mentioned and the vulnerable position of some tenants. Of course we have several tenants in the Netherlands, but let's talk about "the" tenant in the social sector, so with a housing corporation or a private landlord. It may indeed be that people are worried for different reasons, but they are a tenant in the social sector. That has been considered, also at the table built environment. Mr Asscher, of course, knows that the House Union and Aedes were simply represented there. They have been very active in talking and, of course, they have been articulating and expressing these concerns. Moreover, I do not need to remind Mr Asscher that Mr Samsom, of course, has thought about this and has kept an eye on it. That is why there are a number of agreements in the agreement that see this as the right thing to do. We want to adapt the rental legislation in such a way that in the points system the maximum rent increase is linked to the energy performance of the homes. That is an important measure. What is also important is that in the existing right of initiative for tenants, which is aimed at improving the property, we strengthen the position of the tenant, in case there are landlords who do not want to go along with it, so that the tenant can enforce it. Through the Social Rental Agreement, of course, we had already agreed on what the so-called 'housing neutrality' is. This means that the increase in rent cannot be more than the reduction in charges. The agreement therefore provides for a number of changes which, of course, we still have to shape and which will still be discussed in this Chamber and will have to be approved, but which, I think, address Mr Asscher's point. I think it is right to point out to Mr Asscher that tenants do not suffer from the adjustment of the energy bill. There are several slides. There's a slide between gas and electricity and there's a slide in the ODE. This means that companies are going to pay more and households are going to pay less. So the package, in its entirety, means that households, including those of the vulnerable groups that Mr Asscher is talking about, who are, for example, in a low-label rental house, are improving even if there is no investment in sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u370	I see you're trying to interrupt, Mr. Asscher, but I'd like to suggest you finish this first. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u371	Fine, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I thought Mr Heerma pointed out precisely these points. We have created incentives in the agreement, firstly to ensure that vulnerable tenants are protected, but secondly to ensure that landlords are encouraged to make them more sustainable. That is, of course, also very important. So it has to work both ways. Of course, this has not been achieved since day one, but that is how we want to put the regulation together. Finally, in order to keep an eye on the tenant's position, it is important that a tenant can object and that a tenant can ultimately also go to the judge. Maybe I should also mention the right of initiative on this point. Mrs Beckerman feared that the assent requirement would be changed immediately. I'm glad to see her standing right in front of me. It's not like that. We want to keep that consent requirement. What is in the agreement, Mrs Beckerman has seen well, is that we want to enter into the discussion with the tenants and the landlords, both about extending the right of initiative and how we are going to apply in practice the adjustments needed to make improvements to tenants, including that right of consent, which you attach great importance to. We'll have that conversation. Mr. Chairman. I want to say something about the homeowners now. Am I gonna keep doing that? I'm gonna keep doing that. Another group mentioned by Mr Asscher is the vulnerable homeowners. There are, and we should be very clear about that. But the heat fund is definitely there for that group as well. Because that heat fund is meant for all owner-inhabitants, including owner-inhabitants who don't have it spacious, owner-inhabitants with a small scholarship. It's interesting for them. That's how we're supposed to set it up. In fact, you should see that heat fund as an opportunity to make an investment thanks to pre-financing from the fund. That investment pays back because the energy bill goes down. That is exactly how the financing can be re-paid. That's what it's all about and it's meant for those people. Mr Asscher spoke of someone who, for example, had bought his corporation house, but that corporation house was not properly isolated or preserved at all. It is precisely for those people that the heat fund has to do its job. The housing corporations are the starter engine. We see a lot of that, but above all the housing corporations. We are making funds available for this in addition to other resources that we have made available to corporations for sustainability. Those who asked probably saw it. It concerns a budget from the energy investment deduction of 50 million a year to an amount of 200 million. We have a renovation accelerator. We have agreed on market players, on innovation; in short, a very broad palette so that this whole sector can participate, once again, in a phased and quiet path and a calm approach. Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked whether the municipalities are able to do the work they have to do, because it is a great task, including for the municipalities. That is true, and certainly for the small towns, which Mr Stoffer called attention to. This morning in an AO that was indirectly about this, the CDA also called the villages, the village centers and actually asked the same question. We have also had intensive consultations with the co-governments, including the UNG, and we have made agreements with them when the whole package is being drawn up. We said, we actually asked them: can you do this? They say: we think so when we see what the ambitions of the various municipalities are, but then we have to get some room for that. That is why we have also made funds available, three times 50 million, in the document entitled 'Support for the municipalities'. I am well aware that this is sometimes more difficult for small municipalities than for large municipalities. We have to take that into account. We made that deal with the VNG. This is also about how all the municipalities will develop and write down this transition vision, and thereby provide their residents with insight into what route the municipality wants to go through and what options there are for different people. As Mr Wiebes has just said, we will monitor this in the meantime. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the questions about the heat fund. I've already said something about it. I intended to inform the Chamber in the autumn of what the heat fund will look like. Mr Segers asked for that. At that time I can also say something with more certainty about the starting date of the heat fund. This is, of course, a very important part of the whole package. It is also very important for the support base in the Netherlands, so that is a top priority. Mrs Yeşilgöz asked whether the heat fund could also be available to a particular type of company, for example companies that offer heat as a service. The fund as we will set it up is really meant for private owners, so not directly for financing companies. It has to go through the owner-inhabitants. It's not meant for landlords either. The fund therefore focuses specifically on this group, but those people can and will also hire companies to do the work that has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u372	I notice that the cabinet is a bit of agitating the answer. They're gonna shoot through it. I'd still like to come back to the tenants' point. The minister says: that's addressed, that's what we talked about, the House Union was sitting at the table and a tenant who has a problem with that can object to the rent increase. In a letter, the Housing Association referred to the heat grid problem and this problem. So apparently they've been sitting at the table, but they still think it's important that there's attention to it. I didn't ask to indicate it was addressed. I get that. This is supported on all sides; there is that concern. My question is: take that care away from those groups of people where this problem is there, make it clear that we are going to solve it. I do not think it is enough for the cabinet to say: we have addressed it; it is not that bad. That is not enough, because people are genuinely concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u373	If Mr Asscher accuses me of speaking too quickly, I shall now repeat it more slowly, because I did not say at all what Mr Asscher just said to me. On the contrary, I have just said that I take the concerns very seriously, that the cabinet has paid attention to them and that the table-built environment has paid a lot of attention to them. So what we have said to each other that it is necessary to do has not yet been realized, but it is part of the approach. That is why I said the following and I referred to Mr Heerma, who pointed this out. If we choose this approach, it is also necessary to do the tenants justice, to amend the rental legislation, to ensure that that point system will work differently, and that that point system will protect the tenants. That means quite practically the following; let me take an example. Someone lives in a house labeled F. That's a bad label. The landlord doesn't intend to do anything about it. Then we have to set up the point system with each other so that the tenant gets a lower rent. I'd rather that landlord lasts the house, but if it can't go through that route, then by the other route and then the rent goes down. These are the measures contained in the agreement, which still have to be worked out and which will of course take the Chamber into account. The same applies to the right of initiative of the tenant. So I share Mr Asscher's objective very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u374	Then I wronged the minister, because I thought something was happening to a brat and reed. But if the cabinet also thinks that these groups, which cannot do anything about it, should not go backwards, then we can pronounce it with each other. Then that will be the guiding principle for how we proceed with this policy and I shall come to that point with a motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u375	I also referred to the housing valuation system as a means, because the increase in gas prices and the reduction in electricity prices are based on an average. Especially in those very bad homes, more gas is already being consumed. This means that the burden there is much greater, because it cannot be calculated from that average, apart from a rather special group of people, namely the elderly, who often have a higher temperature in the house and do not have their whole house full of light, but have to spend a lot on the gas, in a bad house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u376	And your question is, Mr. Van Otterloo?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u377	It's about stimulating corporations, but it's also about protecting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u378	I heard Mr Van Otterloo in his term of office calling for attention to be paid to the elderly. This can be about relatively high energy consumption and perhaps also relatively high gas consumption. We have said, and I think Mr Wiebes has just said, that on average this reduction will occur in the tax portion of the energy bill. However, depending on the specific composition of the energy consumption, this advantage may be slightly less high. Then it could be slightly lower in another mix. The other point that 50PLUS just raised was about older people who may not want to make the investment anymore. These are elderly people who have their own home, a small wallet and who think: why should I do that now? For this we look at the instrument of building-related financing, which means that if you had to or wanted to leave the house, you can pass on the investments you have made to the next owner of the house. Those are all solutions, customization, precisely because we want to take those people into account, because they are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u379	In my speech, I briefly referred to the report of the Economic Institute for Construction which I am holding up here. Now I thought that I did not ask a question about this, but I would really like to have a cabinet response to this report. So I'm just gonna ask that question in case of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u380	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u381	I may have done a bit of ripping off my contribution there, but I had not interpreted Mr Stoffer's comment as a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u382	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u383	Exactly. Okay. Very good. This afternoon, the EIB... At least yesterday afternoon I must say that the EIB has published a report on the transfer of the PBL over the sector table built environment. In fact, the EIB's main recommendation, as far as I have been able to take it, is that attention should be paid to the effectiveness of climate policy in the built environment. Of course, I fully agree with that. However, my first impression of the EIB report is that it is perhaps very gloomy on a number of points. Take the cost reduction in the technique, which, of course, progresses. For example, solar panels already show that costs are falling. The costs of heat pumps have fallen significantly in the Netherlands in recent years. Of course, we cannot fully calculate how much profit there is still to be made, how much more will that decrease be. But I have no reason to believe that what the PBL assumed would not be true, and that is what we are relying on. It is therefore a good thing that the EIB is also looking at it, but I do not think it is a good idea to think that we should do something different on this point, either in terms of the megaton objective or in terms of the use of resources. Let me turn to Mr Stoffer's specific question. He says: we would also like a response from the cabinet to the EIB report. Of course, if the Chamber so wishes, then of course we can do so. But I would add that we are based on the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u384	I asked my question. Thanks for the answer. I'd really like that cabinet response. In particular, with regard to the principles, which are somewhat gloomy, I would like to have a little more to say: how realistic is that or not? I think I have the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u385	That commitment has already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u386	I will inform the Chamber of how we are looking at this issue of the EIB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u387	I just want to get back to the heat fund. That is of course a very important point for the VVD, because that means that people can be supported and cared for, rather than being saddled with very high costs for which they should be obliged to pay. I'm really glad we're gonna find each other in there. Does the Minister agree with us that people should be given maximum care and that the fund should be able to be used as widely as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u388	Sure. The fund is intended for owners, individuals, who in this way can make their home more sustainable. Without this fund, it would be much more difficult. I'm a big fan of the heat fund. It has to reach those people, too. It must therefore be accessible, it must be accessible, it must have as low an interest rate as possible and as long a term as possible, because that is the way to ensure that people take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u389	I heard in the Minister's term that a number of frameworks were introduced. I know the heat fund is still being designed. It would be very nice if the cabinet were open to ideas about achieving maximum care. Then perhaps we can talk about this later this year. But framing it all and steering it towards a certain angle might be complicated. I would like to reassure the Cabinet that it is open to ideas and that we can jointly see how we can achieve this maximum care with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u390	I have already said that I will come forward with further proposals on the heat fund in the autumn. I think we're aiming for the same thing. Mrs Yeşilgöz's question was about companies and whether companies should have direct access to the heat fund. That's not the point. The point is that we can take care of individuals. But I do not hear Mrs Yeşilgöz say anything other than that. How this should be done, we will look at it together in the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u391	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the mental support he is constantly broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u392	Yeah, that seems to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u393	Then I would like to talk about the heat fund. The concern has been expressed that these are the people who know the way in bureaucracy, who know where to turn. They will eventually benefit from this and people who are less literate, who do not know the way, may have difficulty. In any case, that is a concern which I have and which I would like to highlight very strongly; a threatening gap between insiders and outsiders. If the plans are worked out, at least make sure that the people who are more often side by side are fully involved, so that there is a window, that the offer is made in every neighborhood so that those people are also reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u394	This call sounds like music to me. That is also one of the reasons why I am very pleased that we are actually working very closely with the municipalities. After all, that is the level of government closest to the inhabitants. With their help, we need to set up the heat fund in such a way that it actually achieves that group well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u395	So we will discuss this in the autumn? Then there will be the detailed plans and there will be a proposal for a specific heat fund which we can work on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u396	I do not know whether it is exactly the proposal the Chamber says yes to or no to. I would like to give the Chamber an insight into the way in which we think we are going to be able to shape that and link it with planning. After that, it will undoubtedly have to be further worked out. So we'll be able to talk about that more than once, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u397	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're a mobile country, and we're gonna stay there. We go around the world on average 13,000 times a day. That's a big deal. We're gonna keep doing that, but we're gonna clean it up in the future, because electrically, the new is gonna be normal for all of us. Whether you're a taxi driver, the driver of one of the 10,000 buses that drive in the Netherlands or the driver of one of the 915,000 vans, we're going to go step by step and here too: seduce and help all over. That is, of course, very good for air quality and climate. It also provides a great deal of employment. With regard to electric cars, this cabinet has said that we want more attention to be paid to the second-hand market. I am very pleased that we have also been able to take a number of additional measures in this package, so that even for people who say that switching is simply not an option yet, that it can be done in the long term. For that, the second-hand market is very important. Mr. Chairman. A few questions have been asked, among others by Mrs Beckerman. She actually asks: we have not only the car, but also the car; where are the investments in public transport? It is right that she should draw attention to this investment in infrastructure. This cabinet has, of course, achieved some kind of trend break by making extra money for infrastructure after years of austerity. It's an extra 2 billion. An important part of this goes to public transport. That's what we spend every year in the MIRT rounds. Every autumn, the Chamber will be informed of this. In particular, I have, of course, identified with all the parties concerned the contours of the future image of the OV. This is about a metro network in the cities, good connections with the parts of the country, good public transport in the regions and improved connections with abroad. I'm sure it's gonna happen. I am also very pleased that, in the context of this climate agreement, we have been able to give our secret weapon against the hustle and bustle, the bike, an extra boost. Of the 100 million that we already had available in the coalition agreement, we managed to make nearly 350 million investments in co-financing with the municipalities and provinces. Of course, I will also use these 75 million together with the other governments in order to be able to store this bike as well as possible, but above all to make as much use as possible of it. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Klaver had another question about the addition that will be increased by 2020. That is indeed a difficult measure. There are always pluses and minuses in an agreement, and this is a tricky measure. But I do think it is important to specify which group this applies to. People who are already driving around in an electric car outside are not affected by this. This is only about the people who were actually on the waiting list and who ordered their car this year, but who only get delivered next year. If you're already driving an electric car, it won't hurt you. The small group that was on the waiting list for a car is the group we're talking about. For everyone who hits it, of course, that's annoying, but if you look at the whole fleet, it's a relatively small group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u399	Exceptionally, Mr. Klaver, if it's a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u400	How big is this group exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u401	The impression we have now is that it is a 10,000 people who are affected by it. That is of course very annoying for everyone, but on the large group of the fleet that is a relatively small group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u402	This is why I am asking this question: it is a relatively small group, and so the impact is relatively small, both financially and in terms of what it does for the environment. The reason I asked the question was that it does say something about the reliability of the government. So my question is: why are you taking this measure before 2020 and for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u403	I understand the question, and it is also justified. We did this because we want to avoid overstimulation on the one hand. On the other hand, it also goes into the cap. The Netherlands wants to attract a different kind of car. 'Cause what did you see happen? The Court of Auditors has also paid attention to this on a number of occasions. In recent years, the kind of cars we attracted asked for a relatively large boost per car, but those cars were too expensive for the second-hand market. They were then exported abroad. You could say, let that situation last another year. But then you get a big peak in the purchase of just that kind of cars. And probably they'll go abroad after that, if you look at the results from the past. So what we want to do is to focus on the cars that are also interesting for the second-hand market as soon as possible. So we don't want the Tesla's and the Jaguars anymore, but more the middle class cars. We're gonna let this go fast, because otherwise you're gonna create some kind of peak in the market of cars that you don't want to attract anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u404	No, Mr. Klaver, I suggest the Secretary of State answers all the questions. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u405	Mr President, only on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u406	Yeah, I know; on all counts. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u407	Mr Segers asked about the impact of the different variants of different payments for mobility. We are going to investigate, develop and, where possible and necessary, prepare these variants, so that a subsequent cabinet can really decide on a way to close the gap in government finances. We all see that coming. He's asking for specific attention to the hybrid cars. We will certainly take that point into account, because of course you do not want to pay double for such a car. Mr Segers is right to draw attention to this. We'll take it into effect. Mr Stoffer asked about the doubling of the flight tax. He saw it in the pieces and asked why it was deleted. The measure could lapse because it was no longer necessary to cover it. In the government agreement, however, the cabinet indicated its commitment to European agreements on aviation taxation. It will also examine the possibility of charging noise and polluting aircraft. If both options are insufficient, an air ticket tax will be introduced by 2021. Secretary of State Snel informed the Chamber on several occasions and sent a bill for a national flight tax to the Chamber on 14 May. Of course, we will continue to focus on the European pathway, the European tax. Finally, there was another question about the circular economy. It is a bit out of the question of mobility, but it was passed on to me by Mr Wiebes. In response to that question, I can look both to the left and to the right, because we have a Rijksbreed program Circular Economy. We do, because we see a lot of potential in the reuse of raw materials. If waste is no longer a cost, but simply a earning model, then there is still a lot of potential in it. So we have a great ambition. Our approach is seen as a frontrunner across Europe. This means that there is a great deal of attention to circular economy throughout the Climate Agreement. You can see this in the texts of industry, in the built environment and in agriculture. The climate envelope and the resources available for the climate will further stimulate these developments. In addition, we have things like the Acceleration House Circular Economy and the whole state-wide approach. Of course, this must be seamlessly linked. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions I wrote down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u408	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u409	How long you had to wait wasn't too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u410	Do you remember or have you forgotten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u411	I've tried to keep it limited for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u412	I think it's all blessed. Mr. Chairman. I really want to come back to the cars just to get it right. I can see why you want a different type of car. I agree. You rightly say that these people have already ordered the car, but that it has not yet been delivered. That car is coming to the Netherlands anyway. The question is what is the impact of this measure that is now in force. Are there really fewer cars of this type on the Dutch market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u413	These cars have been ordered. What it means to these people is that the discount on their add-on goes down from 18% to 14%. So it means a financial difference for these people. That could make a few tens a month. The question then is whether such a car will not come to the Netherlands before, because if you look at the addition of similar fossil cars, it is still a lot higher. So it's still a lot more attractive to drive this car.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u414	I am asking these questions because I am talking about the proportionality of intervention in a promise made by the government. I agree. I can see why the cabinet is doing it. But then to catch this relatively small group... Those cars come to the Netherlands anyway, because a waiting list often means that they have already been ordered. I hope the cabinet will reconsider that. When you're talking about acceptance, this is something that's chopping up a lot of people, even if you don't like the fact that cars are also subsidised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u415	I am pleased to note that the cabinet is moving in the right direction with electric cars: a different type of car and focus on the second-hand market. We checked to see if we could get it in six months later to leave the newly ordered cars out of it, but that doesn't turn out to be feasible for the Tax Office. I did say to the people at the table: let's go round the table together to see where there are bottlenecks. This package stands, but let's look at the perspective of action together. We'll keep talking to each other. I would like to thank Mr Klaver for his support for the general direction. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u416	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I miss Mrs Yeşilgöz. You do not need to use the second term. You must speak with empty mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u417	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I was just getting rid of my dinner, a bag of chips. Thank you for all the answers. In my view, we are going to discuss this in detail when all the plans are being drawn up. I am very pleased that there is now clarity and clarity about what we are going to do so that we can get to work now. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, for the purposes of the Climate Agreement, it was agreed to set up a heat fund to support, stimulate and ensure the sustainability of their homes;]] [[Whereas this Fund is still in the process of being established and prepared;]] [[Considering that this Fund can make a major contribution to the neighbourhood-based approach and the reduction of CO emissions referred to in the Climate Agreement;]] [[noting that it is up to municipalities to plan and implement the district-based approach;]] [[calls on the government to ensure with the municipalities that homeowners and residents are explicitly involved in the district-oriented approach and households so that people are well and timely informed about the choices to be made;]] [[calls on the government also to ensure with the municipalities that real, affordable alternatives are considered in the sustainability of neighbourhoods and that the district-based approach is aimed at making cost-effective choices;]] [[calls on the Government to make the grant and loan conditions as attractive as possible to all residents and homeowners in the design of the heat fund;]] [[calls on the Government to regularly assess whether the current budget is adequate and whether sufficient private capital can be raised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SMEs have an important position in our economy;]] [[Whereas it is essential for SMEs to be clear about how climate action is to be developed for SMEs;]] [[Calls on the Government to involve SMEs in the development of climate plans and to take into account the specific position of SMEs in the implementation of climate plans;]] [[calls on the Government to inform, together with SME organisations, how SMEs can effectively and efficiently implement the relevant parts of the agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-349]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-350]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u418	I've got 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u419	Then you can have a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u420	Yeah, for my chips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u421	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u422	A motion not to let households and SMEs bear the cost of the energy transition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in presenting the draft Climate Agreement, the Cabinet stated that households and SMEs do not bear the cost of transition in industry;]] [[Whereas compliance with this commitment is important for the acceptance of this Climate Agreement;]] [[calls on the government to keep its promise and not let households and SMEs bear the cost of transition in industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Kuzu, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-351]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u423	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a third of the working Dutch say they have no alternative to the car to come to work;]] [[whereas the proposal for the Climate Agreement contains virtually no alternative proposals;]] [[considers that hardworking Dutch people should not be hit disproportionately hard by charging;]] [[calls on the Government to take as its starting point the examination of the various variants of payment for use that Dutch people who have no alternative to the car do not fall financially on a system review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-352]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u424	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u425	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate plans are a comprehensive and complex package;]] [[whereas many people do not yet know what they are up to;]] [[calls on the government to make it understandable what these plans mean for people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the climate proposals propose major changes in energy taxation for households;]] [[Whereas not everyone can easily adjust their homes, such as tenants with a landlord who is not sustainable, buyers of poor corporate homes and people with heat grids;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to prevent the deterioration of these people as a result of the climate proposals, while not affecting them;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these groups do not deteriorate and explain how it is doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Beckerman, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Jetten, Mr Van Raan, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Otterloo.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-353]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-354]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u426	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u427	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the cabinet for answering the questions put. The Prime Minister was brilliant this evening, I'd like to say. And flawless. We don't see him like that much. It also tastes like more, I must say. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Planning Offices to include all climate measures presented by the Cabinet, including those that have become public after 1 May, fully in this year's Climate and Energy Exploration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Beckerman, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Stoffer, Mr Baudet and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-355]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u429	I had an interrupting debate with Mr Jetten, who indicated that there should be an additional package in the autumn when it comes to Urgenda. I agree. That's very good. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to present to Princess Day an additional package of measures that saves 5 megatons of CO on top of the 4 megaton package already presented, so that the actual implementation of the Urgendavonnis can be made possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-356]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u430	Mr President, I have a motion that speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to throw the climate agreement in the trash and to spend the money the government wants to spend on it on reducing the burden on citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-357]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u431	He'll be here next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u432	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u433	Mr. Chairman. I had made a bingo card for this debate with Mr Sienot, but it is not full, because the word shredder did not just end up in the motion. I'm sorry about that. Thank you to the cabinet for the comprehensive answer. Thanks also to all parties, organisations, NGOs, companies, fellow governments and you name it all, who have worked on this Climate Agreement at climate tables in recent months. Who would have thought two years ago that the fine promise that we would halve those CO emissions, included in the paper government agreement of the greenest cabinet ever, would actually be fulfilled? It has taken a while and we have had a long time to discuss it, but tonight I see very broad support for this climate package. I'm happy about that. I also think that there have been some justified additions and questions from some opposition parties about how the agreement can be even sharper and better. I look forward to working together and working together when all these legislative proposals come our way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan will shortly table a motion which I wholeheartedly support. It calls on the Cabinet to review all Urgenda's recent proposals in order to see if we can save additional megatons in the short term. I have one motion to urge the cabinet to get to work quickly. We in the Chamber do not need to vote on this climate agreement. We're going to vote only on the laws that come out of this. But we don't want to waste any time after two years of talking and thinking. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has brought out plans to make the Netherlands more sustainable in a fair way and reduce CO;]] [[Whereas many of these plans still need to be implemented or laid down in legislation;]] [[calls on the government to rapidly implement these plans to meet the Dutch climate targets, with fair burden-sharing and the opportunities it brings for work, prosperity and well-being,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-358]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u434	Madam President. Mr Klaver was right to praise the Prime Minister. I would also like to do the same to the Minister for Agriculture. The Animal Party talks here about the Climate Agreement and has zero critical questions to the Minister of Agriculture. I think that's a milestone. So the support is growing. I see broad support. I am counting on a nice elaboration and nice discussions about the outcome. Madam President. I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hydrogen is an important innovation that can provide a solution to climate-related issues;]] [[noting that green hydrogen is a theme in which the Netherlands can distinguish itself internationally;]] [[noting that green hydrogen is valuable to industry, to the electricity sector, to the mobility sector and possibly also to the built environment;]] [[Whereas innovation, pilots and demo projects are of great importance for the availability, reliability and affordability of the necessary technologies;]] [[Whereas companies and governments in the North of the Netherlands have an investment agenda for emissions-free hydrogen, which they intend to produce, use and transport in a large-scale and cost-effective manner in 2030;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with parties throughout the Netherlands, to draw up a programme of Hydrogen with the aim of giving green hydrogen an important place in solving climate-related issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Raan and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-359]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u435	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u436	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file two motions. The first relates to industry. I thank the Minister of EZK for his reply. I would like to table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Climate Agreement has a strong ambition for industry to reduce emissions;]] [[Whereas the Dutch innovative manufacturing industry and supplying SMEs in strong regional clusters ensure our prosperity, well-being and employment;]] [[Whereas these companies operate on the world market and are concerned about the loss of businesses and jobs in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas, in line with the ESC Opinion, it is an opportunity for our economy to make CO-reducing investments in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to actively monitor which companies are going to invest and which companies could be affected by a combination of measures, and to prepare a roadmap with tools to ensure that investments in sustainability are made in the Netherlands and that job losses are avoided,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Segers and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-360]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u438	The second motion concerns the importance of local ownership for renewable energy projects. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the objective is to ensure that 50% of renewable energy projects on land are owned by the environment by 2030;]] [[Whereas local ownership contributes to support for renewable energy projects;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify the extent to which individuals and the environment are currently participating in sustainable energy projects, to monitor how the ownership of new renewable energy projects evolves and report annually on them in the Climate Policy Progress Monitor in the Climate Paper and if progress is lagging behind to take measures to promote participation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u439	Eleven seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u440	I'll take care of that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u441	I can't blame you. Thank you for the answers. I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Urgenda has drawn up a package of measures for an additional reduction of 10 to 15 megatons to achieve the 2020 reduction target;]] [[calls on the Government to take seriously all measures identified by Urgenda and to inform the Chamber of each measure of the consideration of whether or not to take them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is uncertain whether the announced voluntary cessation schemes for livestock farming will lead to the necessary reduction in the number of animals;]] [[calls on the Government to convert the voluntary stop-per schemes in livestock farming into a warm clean-up and to withdraw the rights bought out from the market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Urgenda advises to stop logging for wood harvesting, processing forest floors, disposing of biomass from the forest and cutting of trees for energy purposes;]] [[invites the Government to adopt this opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed CO levy only charges part of the industrial emissions and leaves, inter alia, livestock farming untouched;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce an additional CO levy for livestock farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Raan, Thieme, Jetten, Klaver, Asscher, Beckerman, Segers and Van Otterloo.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-362]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-363]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-364]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-365]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u442	And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the UN, increasing the share of nature makes an important contribution to the achievement of climate objectives and to the restoration of biodiversity;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to speed up the integration and expansion of nature reserves in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-366]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u443	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u444	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u445	Mr. Chairman. Three very sympathetic motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas local energy initiatives by citizens and SMEs are of great importance for the success of the energy transition, partly because they strengthen the support for that transition and increase energy awareness among citizens;]] [[Considering that the Climate Agreement aims at 50% ownership of the local environment in renewable land-based electricity production, without any concrete action being taken;]] [[considers that it is very important for the support of the energy transition that energy projects should at least benefit in part residents and the local community;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber by the end of 2019 on the state of play of the proposals to stimulate the development of local energy cooperatives and to ensure that the local community benefits from renewable energy projects, including the postcode rose scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities are given sufficient space to adapt the timetable to its feasibility and affordability in order to make the built environment more sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities receive sufficient funding in both the short and longer term to fulfil their "hero role," taking into account the differences between municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities are given sufficient guidance to shape the energy transition in its own way, in line with the local situation;]] [[invites the government to indicate in the annual Climate Action Paper to what extent municipalities are able to fulfil their role, what they are facing and how they are supported in doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has not opted to double the flight tax from €7 to €15 per ticket;]] [[considers that a charge of €7 is limited in view of the negative impact of flight movements on the living environment;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the flight tax, at least at the level of the flight tax in neighbouring countries, and to use additional revenues for the sustainability of aircraft and/or the feasibility and affordability of the energy transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Jetten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-367]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-368]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-369]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u446	I have tried to have Mr Jetten co-signed. It didn't work, Mr. Klaver did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u447	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u448	I'm in the energy saving business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u449	That's good, too. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u450	Madam President, colleagues. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas climate law involves a radical transformation of our economy and society;]] [[whereas the government intends to implement this through the climate agreement;]] [[Whereas the transfer of the draft climate agreement gave only a limited picture of the total cost to society as a whole;]] [[and that the estimate of FVD, based, inter alia, on studies carried out by the Foundation for the Environment, Science and Policy and the Economic Institute for Construction, amounts to 1,000 billion;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Planning Office for the Environment to pass on the total social costs of, inter alia,:]] [[removing the gas from all Dutch houses and other buildings, including the other necessary renovations of residential and commercial buildings (including the costs of insulation and alternative heating, such as heat pumps and convector radiators);]] [[involve the lost investments, for example in the Dutch industry as a result of the closure of our gas network;]] [[the necessary expansion of the electricity grid;]] [[the replacement of the entire fleet, of all ships and other means of transport;]] [[the closure of all Dutch coal and gas plants;]] [[the construction and energy costs of the new mix of "sustainable" energy sources, such as windmills, solar panels and biomass;]] [[the costs lost resulting from the attachment of these windmills and solar panels to Dutch agricultural land, residential areas, etc.;]] [[the cost of a CO2 tax, including the revenue lost resulting from the expected and foreseeable removal of companies from the Netherlands;]] [[the increased prices of consumer products, including clothing, food, beverages, meat, etc.;]] [[and all other costs arising directly and indirectly from the achievement of the objectives set by the climate law, including the extreme deterioration of the Dutch competitive position compared to abroad;]] [[noting that the PBL has proved to be insufficiently independent in the past, at least that questions have arisen as to the independence and reliability of the Institute;]] [[calls on the Government to give the independent investigating firm Clintel exactly the same mandate, and to make exactly the same funds available for this purpose, and also to provide evidence of the results comparable to the kind of justification PBL will provide to allow for effective comparison,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u451	I trust that Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten will at least support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u452	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. 22 motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u453	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u454	Mr President, thank you. I'm going through the motions, and I'm trying to do that briefly. I'll start with the motion in part No. 349. The request is in line with the agreements made at the sectoral table, so I'm giving the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 350. It is extremely important that we pay attention to SMEs. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 351. If I may interpret it in such a way that the way in which the government handles these costs and charges is in line with the letter sent today, I shall leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 352. In the Climate Agreement we clearly have the test criteria. Which Dutch people advance or decline on it is, of course, a major focus. But in this motion, almost an individual consideration per car is requested. This is not possible and not always in line with what the various options are intended to achieve. I have to discourage the motion. The motion in part No. 353 on the understandable energy transition, I judge Chamber. Everyone has to be able to experience this. Then the motion to part No. 354 in which the government is asked not to allow certain groups of people to decline. I think it is very sensible that the petitioner should talk about groups and not individuals. We don't know everyone in the Netherlands personally. If this is a maximum effort, if I may see this as a maximum effort, I can give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 355. I am prepared to do so and leave the judgment room. The motion in part No. 356. This is not a prior call for action. I acknowledge that the verdict stands. We have criteria that I think are sensible. We will continue to work intensively on this, but I can only advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 357 goes through the shredder and is dissuaded. The motion in part No. 358 is a call that I enthusiastically give Chamber judgment. The motion in part No. 359 I give with equal enthusiasm judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 360. Yes, that is extremely important when it comes to drafting. This motion certainly gets judgment Chamber, because we really need to be careful about this. We'll talk about it more often. Absolute judgment room. The motion in part No. 361: Judgment Room. I agree with the objectives of the motion. We'll include the annual local energy monitor. Then the motion to part No. 362 on the reporting to the Chamber of the position on Urgenda's measures, as called for by the Animal Party. If I have some space and in some cases may combine things, if I may just give a meaningful cabinet response, then I will leave this judgment Chamber. It suits me to investigate everything. In the motion in part No. 363's got something weird in there. The operative part suggests that a voluntary stopper scheme would then not be voluntary. That's not right. A warm clean-up, which is also mentioned in the documents, is also voluntary. Moreover, it is not the intention to remove all rights. The plan is to leave development space as well. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 364, about forest cover, I must also advise against. It is precisely in the forest strategy that we are working with the provinces on how to manage climate-smart forests and how to expand forests. Bale cap is not on the agenda and the sustainability criteria for biomass are being developed. I'm dissuading the motion. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 365 calls for an additional CO levy to be introduced for livestock farming. That's a motion that surprises me. This sector clearly has no problem with producing the tonnes and has delivered even more. So this, too, does not seem to be a risk-free solution to an otherwise non-existent issue. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 365. Then the motion to part No. 366 on speeding up the integration and expansion of nature reserves in the Netherlands. That's what the provinces are about. There have also been very clear agreements made within the framework of the Netherlands Nature Network and I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 366.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u455	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u456	Mr President, just a moment. Thanks for the appreciation. At the motion in part No. 363 seems to give the Minister some room for manoeuvre if we adjust it somewhat and make a nuance to that warm clean-up and those purchased rights. Would the Minister be prepared to take another look at it, or does it not matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u457	No. There are several things in it that do not make this motion manageable. I have already mentioned two, and I think that a simple adjustment would mean writing a completely new motion and then we should rethink it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 367 I'm judging Chamber. This is very important. The motion in part No. 368 I'm also judging Chamber. Such agreements have indeed been made with other governments. If I can explain along that line, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 369. The cabinet has simply made a different assessment on this issue, also in the interest of support. Let's see how this goes and then consider any steps. This motion in part No. 369, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 370. I see Mr Baudet's wish to pass on everything, but he does not need the cabinet in any way. He can direct these requests directly to the Planning Bureau for the Environment. I dissuade the motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u458	Can we not seduce Mr Wiebes, given his unbridled flexibility, to give the motion judgment Chamber? About a year ago, I had an interesting exchange with the Prime Minister about the significance of all these names. I think judgment room is exactly what we need here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u459	There are several experience experts in the room, because they have also asked questions to the PBL in a very constructive way. They found no obstacle in finding the government unwilling to pass it on. There is therefore no obstacle to Mr Baudet asking these questions. I also encourage him, because I think it is a good thing that opposition parties have their own ideas passed on. But we don't need the government to do that, so I'm going to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u460	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u461	But the motion mentions not only the PBL, but also another independent research agency, precisely because it is so important. You also have multiple parties in a democracy. In science you have several universities and at research offices it is also good to have multiple bodies think about things. Of course, a little support from the Chamber, and perhaps also from the cabinet, is very important to get this done. We really can't do that alone. We can't order Clintel to do that. We cannot finance that either. There are all kinds of funds for that and so on, and that is, of course, something where we need the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u462	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u463	If there are any questions with Mr Baudet, Mr Baudet must seek an answer to them. If there are any questions with the government, we'll run a call for tenders and see which independent expert is eligible for them. But both options have not been incorporated into the motion here, and I must therefore dissuade him. But again, nothing stands in the way of Mr Baudet sending his questions to the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u464	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u465	Whoa, whoa. In our lives, don't ask so much. It is more that we have been asked repeatedly, among other things by representatives of coalition parties, to pass it on. Let it be passed on; we are so anxious to see a pass-through! Oh, they'd love to see a pass-through. Then we have a proposal for this, and it would of course be wonderful if the cabinet, or at least a number of parties participating in the cabinet, would support it. That's a little butter on the fish, too. You can't just walk tough at Pauw and yell that you'd like a pass-through...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u466	Mr. Baudet, this isn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u467	I have also heard Mr Jetten say: a pass-through. That's what he wanted. Well, then we can still... Mr. Jetten, couldn't you just walk to the interrupting microphone and support me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u468	Mr. Baudet, you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u469	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u470	You are free to put the motion to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u471	Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Baudet is making a whole show of it. I also think it is the right time, by the way, to discuss this in detail. As I have just offered to Mr Baudet, he is very welcome to join our group. We really want to help him to get closer to the PBL and to draw up the relevant letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u472	Mr. Kláver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u473	So the point is, you don't just have to use left-wing research firm PBL for this kind of thing. That's the punch line. If you let multiple clubs pass it on, you can start comparing reports. Then we begin to have an interesting, substantive discussion here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u474	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u475	So the hypocrisy is enormous here in this list of MPs, because that is not what they want. No, it has to be with its own, trusted, left-wing research institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u476	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u477	Ammehula!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u478	There. Thank you. This has also brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-03-tweedekamer-15.u479	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, the Minister for the Interior and the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State. No, don't walk towards them. I'm not done, Mr. Van Raan. Back. I thank the three directors for their answers, and I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture I am going to talk very slowly, because everyone wants to go home, I understand Nature and Food Quality for their physical appearance and physical presence. You've worked hard. Thank you. For the moment, I'm closing the meeting.
