ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u1	The next item is a VAO Human Resources Defence, with Mrs Diks van GroenLinks as the first speaker. Oh, Mr Kerstens first has the floor. Perhaps in abundance: so we have a Christmas regime. All we do is file motions and don't ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u2	Yeah, yeah, I was just joking a little bit to give Mrs. Diks a little more time to look into her motion. I am going to table one motion myself, which has to do with an important next step in regaining the trust of the people of Defence in their organisation, namely the creation of a new job and remuneration structure as a further implementation of the terms of employment agreement that has been concluded this year, which is a very good step in itself to restore confidence to the people in their organisation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Agreement on terms and conditions of employment concluded last year is an important step in restoring the trust of the people of Defence in their organisation;]] [[Considering that a contemporary office and remuneration building is an important follow-up step in the elaboration of the terms of employment agreement;]] [[Whereas unnecessary delay in setting up that follow-up step can restore confidence;]] [[calls on the Government to establish the framework conditions for a new job and remuneration building, thus contributing to the attractiveness of Defence as an employer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u3	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, for the confusion on my side. It is true that we wanted to maintain this VAO Defence Staff, especially to call for further attention to be paid to the limitation periods. I think we've talked about this before at the WHO Staff Office. The Secretary of State has given some response to it at the time, but I do notice that, and I am not the only one who is very concerned about these limitation periods. Because this is very often about people who are very seriously ill or who can become seriously ill from what they have experienced while working in the Defense Department, I think it is good to take away their anxiety as much as possible where possible. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[Whereas, despite the fact that the Defence Department applies these limitation periods, it is important that victims of occupational diseases and injuries are given legal certainty in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from recourse to the limitation periods for lodging a claim for an acquired Defence-related occupational disease or injury, which Defence knew or should have known could cause or cause damage to Defence personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am still waiting for the motion just tabled by Mrs Diks and Mr Kerstens. But I shall begin with Mr Kerstens' motion, in part No. 50. I believe that we have dealt with this before in the budgetary procedure. As Mr Kerstens knows, the task is quite considerable. I've shared it with you before in this room. The payroll building was established by a state commission from the last century. The fact that we have that for more than 100 years indicates that it is a major task. The same applies to the personnel model. We see our people pouring out, not just through pay, but precisely because of many other things that are related to career prospects. So I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber, but with the perspective that this takes time. We cannot take all these steps in one go. If you want to look at both the reward system and job evaluation, it all depends on each other. We also said in the AV agreement that as a first step we are also going to do the wage building. And we ourselves included in the Defence Note the re-evaluation of the personnel model. All this must go together, and that will go gradually. That is why I say 'judge chamber', but with this context. Then there's Mrs. Diks' other motion. I haven't got this one in front of me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u5	We wait for this to be distributed, then you can look at it quietly. There's the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u6	I understand Mrs. Diks' concern. I would also like to say this, because once in the quarter, the Defence Department sends a little bit of information, depending on whether there is any information to report to all the people who have signed up at the contact point CAOP. Those are people who have ever worked at the POMS locations or not, but who want to register at least when it comes to working with chrome-6 within the Defense Department. And recently we have sent a new newsletter again, explaining exactly the limitation period and what that means, both relative and absolute. I have also indicated to Mrs Diks in general consultation that we will not apply the 30-year period for absolute limitation. But of the relative limitation period, which is perhaps good to know for Mrs Diks and Mr Kerstens, who have tabled this motion, there has been no mention so far of chromium-6. Because it has to meet two things. You must have gotten sick, so the diagnosis must have been made. And two, the arrangement must have come into force. So right now, for example, the people who work at the POMS locations may have gotten sick before. The scheme did not enter into force until RIVM presented its report for the POMS locations last year. So it is only on 4 June 2018 that a possible limitation period has started to run. So that's been going on for a year and a half. That is not the case either. And I know that the power stations also explicitly point to and help their members with the letters of interruption, as it is called. So there can only be a limitation period if there is both disease and a regulation. For a claim it's something else, but I don't want to go into details of the General Administrative Law and the Civil Code. But you must have met two conditions. There is no limitation period for non-POMS employees at all, because we do not yet have the RIVM report. So if there are concerns that there are already limitation periods for that target group, then it simply does not apply to the relative limitation period. I will also send Mrs Diks, as I promised, a letter on all the RIVM investigations that are still under way, in which I will explain this again. But I have to discourage the motion. Because you're actually calling for the General Administrative Law or the Civil Code to be amended. Because this is true for the whole of the Netherlands, for all cases that have to do with claims, when it comes to absolute limitation periods and relative limitation periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u7	I understand the clamp, that's what I'll call it, where the Secretary of State is in: don't make it too broad. That is why I have made it very clear that I am not so much concerned with chromium-6 or other cases. As far as I am concerned, it is the cases in which the Defence Department should have known or should have known that the cases, the dangerous substances and otherwise, with which the Defense staff were employed, were dangerous to the health of these personnel. And it also has to do with the fact that it is not an ordinary 'professional disease', if I may use that term. It is really a matter of knowingly letting people work with stuff, which we really must say afterwards: we knew it was dangerous and we know that people have suffered terrible diseases. In that case, I believe that there should simply be no limitation period and that you should not want to invoke the limitation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u8	I understand Mrs Diks' concern, but I have also indicated to you that the problem you are experiencing cannot yet be solved, because RIVM has not yet published a report for, for example, those who have not worked at the POMS sites. I hope that this will happen again in the spring, because, like you, I want clarity as soon as possible, including for the staff who did not work at the POMS sites. So at the moment, when it comes to these cases, of chromium-6, there is in no way a relative limitation period that has begun to run. This is because it started for the POMS employees only in June 2018, and then you have to be sick too. I would like to stress that this applies to both conditions which must apply; only then will it happen. So there's no problem at the moment. I have emphasized in all our news reports and in all our other information that we point out to our people that they can be called upon if they have questions or if they need help, including on these matters. We can do that simply to ensure that the deadline does not expire. But that cannot be the case at the moment. Mrs Diks makes a call and actually just says that you need to change the law. But that would apply to the whole of the Netherlands and not just to the Defence Department. It would then apply in a very broad sense to all employers in the Netherlands, and I think that is a very different discussion. So again, I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-43.u9	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the VAO Human Resources Department. I'll suspend until 7:15 and then we'll continue with the VAO Police.
