ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the policy debate on the state of the rule of law, which was held in this Chamber in the first and second term on 22 May 2018. We shall now begin with the third term of office. As you know, it has been agreed in the Seniors' College that any motions may be tabled in this period. I shall reopen the debate and give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group was very critical of the state of the rule of law in the first two deadlines. The question is now: what rule of law are we still talking about? Does the rule of law apply equally to all? Of course it has to do with money. Where the government is growing and where under the leadership of the VVD the government is taking up an increasing proportion of what we all deserve, not least because of the incessant mass immigration and climate policy, there is less and less money for that rule of law and for our security. Without a well-functioning rule of law, where criminal activities are now more profitable for many than seeking a job, our prosperity will eventually be further undermined. A rule of law should move along with developments in society. The Dutch rule of law is based on criminal law and not on criminal law. That seems logical in itself, because it makes sense that you will not be punished if you have not actually done anything. But reality is more uncomfortable. Let me refer to the organised helicopter escape of a member of the mocromafia. A helicopter was hired and they had automatic weapons and crow's legs to hinder police pursuit in advance. Serious crime, well-prepared serious organized crime: but the judge lets them get away with a mockery of a few months, because the attempt was interrupted beforehand by the police. Will the Minister do something about this in a legislative sense? Does he want to adapt that ancient Code of Criminal Law in this respect to everyday reality, so that society, but also the policemen and detectives concerned, are not frustrated again? If the minister doesn't, he's gonna tell these serious criminals, these murder squads from the mocromafia: keep up the good work. Because there are no more flavors. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Minister Dekker is in the process of extending the right to speak at TBs sessions and also giving next of kin, not necessarily family, the right to speak. The examples of perverse crimes are so poignant and the testimony of relatives is so heartbreaking that I hope the Minister will come forward with these proposals quickly. What's the status? The state of the rule of law is best judged at the turn of the year. Those who make the balance then come to grievous conclusions. We have a government that leaves the last policemen and women to their fate. We'll get them to call it names. We'll have them molested, molested and stirred with fireworks. Here in The Hague at the Anna Blamanplein, they called out cops, shouted out some more and threw fireworks at cops. The cops got out of their way. In Soest, two cops got a street tile through the windshield. A clean attempted manslaughter. Someone tried to hit a cop with a beam. The suspect was apprehended, but an angry crowd managed to dissuade him. A cop in the paper tells them to leave their car and run for their lives. Cops were locked in and had to use pepper spray and draw their weapon. That is the state of our rule of law. Boa's.. you know, they've replaced police officers because they've been cut off together with police stations.......................................................................................................................................... Those who must serve safety, therefore lift the white flag. They're retreating. What neighborhoods would that be? These are omens of banlieus. This is happening in French suburbs. The government has already withdrawn and the street authority has been handed over to the thugs, with understaffing as the cause. This cabinet is dropping our officers and our society like a brick. A third of Amsterdam's boas face violence every day. Their armament is limited to a coupon book. That is the state of our rule of law. After old and new, one person was sued for the Super-Quick Justice, one. He called out our agents for "stinkhollanders" and "shitounds" and exclaimed something about women that I here, with King Willem II in my back, will not repeat. So this is what our agents deal with every day. He got a fine from a D66 judge. These things also cry out for minimum punishment, otherwise they will always get away with fake punishment. Our rule of law, represented by the Prime Minister and this Minister, does not go beyond a tweet at the turn of the year, nothing more than blabbermouth and meaningless innocence. Just like the previous years and, if they're not voted out, next year. It's not for nothing that a cop in the paper said he's doing his job just for the citizens and not for this cabinet anymore. That too is the state of the rule of law. Preventive detention, stricter penalties, no community service or penalties for violence against aid workers. I heard the CDA say this this weekend before the election. What's wrong with a minimum sentence if you commit violence against our agents? Just at least a year in prison if you commit violence against cops, firefighters and paramedics. What's wrong with that? Can I hear that from the Minister? And don't come up with the story that stricter legislation is coming, because this so-called stricter legislation provides for a maximum penalty of three months for obstructing aid workers, up to three months instead of one. If you didn't know any better, you'd think it was a joke. Mr. Chairman. Mayors go to court because the Public Prosecutor's Office systematically refuses to prosecute criminal asylum seekers. What kind of banana republic is this? Structurally, the prosecution dismisses cases of thieving asylum seekers. This is an invitation to society to fix it up and pay for itself, because the government systematically refuses. The rule of law is failing. Mayor Heijmans, we had him visit here last week, and he's even being prosecuted for restrictions of freedom he took against the azc scum. How does it exist! The mayor! Which side is the Justice Department on anyway? In Denmark this asylum device is still being thrown on an island, so it is possible. In an aso-azc here in the Netherlands, the total anarchy is where the employees are hardly sure of their lives. Throw those guys in jail is my call until they cooperate in eviction. Or seal off the azc hermetically. I come to the end of my term with a motion. Mr. Chairman. As long as you like. There is no will in the cabinet to stand up for ordinary people, for our agents, firefighters and aid workers. It doesn't get any further than a tweet, an indignant tone and a prime minister who speaks tough language in the secure secrecy of press centre Nieuwspoort. At home, they call that a hero on socks. The rule of law is dead and buried for many people. He flies the white flag and says to the citizens and all those aid workers: find out. We prefer to put our money in mass immigration, Africa, the black hole called "Brussels" and climateutopia. We don't care about your safety. Of course, the Minister will come back with a million here and a million there, but that will be just enough to buy some more white flags. Mr. Chairman. Due to lack of capacity, organised drug crime grew, according to a recent internal police note. I quote: The Dutch police are special because of the spacious space they offer to locally ascending criminals. The conclusion in that report is, I quote again: 'Riant criminal opportunities for organized criminals and hardly or no support for district agents who tend to commit this type of crime'. As soon as an issue of detection is needed, it is almost impossible for district agents to find and find partners internally. So that note says that reform is much needed. A police inspector says in that report: if a drug criminal had been allowed to set up the base team, he would have done it exactly like this. How many licences of inability to act must be handed out before the Minister puts his affairs in order? The report also states that the police top cooks with supposedly falling crime rates. It warns against cases that are no longer reported. We're not talking about bicycle thefts anymore. We are talking about money laundering, drug production and the sponsorship of sports clubs by criminals. In this house, D66, in Mr Backer's person, always advocates greater diversity in the rule of law. That was not very successful on D66's list of candidates for this Chamber, because it is whiter than white. This report warns against the uncontrolled adoption of immigrants and the unsubstantiated promotion of these immigrants. The report therefore warns against discrimination against Dutch in the police force. That's what that report says. Does the Minister endorse that and what is he going to do about it? Then there is the question of whether the rule of law is the same for all. In November 2017, Moroccans throw heavy fireworks at the Mercatorplein in Amsterdam to the police. A cop gets hearing damage, but the "head look away" of the police says for AT5, while the fireworks are flying around his ears, "so happy are the people." What a difference if you want to walk across the Binnenhof with a yellow rug. If you wear a yellow shirt and you don't have any ID on you, you're gonna get arrested hard-handed. But the agents in the Painter's Quarter are being pelted with fireworks and fleeing. Illegal demonstrations by Turks and Grey Wolves in Rotterdam are left untouched. Anti-Semitic speeches are ignored in Rotterdam. We have two states of law! When Pegida demonstrates with their logo in which the swastika is thrown into a trash can, they are arrested because there is a swastika on the banner. During a pro-Haman demonstration, swastikas may be shown unhindered, along with the Israeli flag. So we have two states of law! A KOZP activist attacked a man in Rotterdam during the entrance of Sinterklaas. The unsub was released after about three hours, the victim after three days. In the meantime, has the DA fallen into the hands of antifa? Mr. Chairman. We have a rule of law in which the threat of a politician is less punished than the blockage fries. Blockfries who wanted to protect their children's feast against racists and criminals who were invited by a PvdA minister to ruin the place. Then suddenly there was capacity left at the state's attorney's office and at the state's attorney's office. Thumbnail files were produced there. The D.A. even made a video to explain how bad it was. The Justice Department has now ordered that priority be given to taking DNA from those convicted of blocking frying. With priority! If I'm well informed, that arrondissement has been waiting three years for requests. But the block frying is a priority, because they protected their children. May I ask the Minister why that is? I'm not gonna let you get rid of me this time with "they're individual cases, so I'm not gonna say anything about it." Firstly, it is a group and not an individual case, and secondly, the Minister is not too bad to say anything in front of the camera in such cases. So that is also possible here in the face of the people's representatives. By the way, it's insane enough that these block fries have been convicted, so I'd like to hear more from the Minister. How quiet was it, for example, in Box K when a demonstration at a mosque in Utrecht had to be broken up at the end of last year, because mosque-goers made jihad cries and both police and protesters were picking on everything. Where was the Minister then to condemn this? Not only were the protesters crowned, but also our own agents. Also recently, on 16 January, Muslims tried to disrupt another demonstration in Utrecht at a mosque. There was, of course, no massive outrage on the state television, but a lot of cars were demolished. Work to be done, I'd say, for the D.A.'s office. How far along are we now with the intensive detectives like the blockage frying? Is it going to be six months now, that investigation, like the block frying frying? Are there six detectives full-time on this case now, like the block frying? Have any of the unsubs been interrogated for at least four hours? Has the D.A. made a video to show how bad it was like the block frying? Have there been court reservations for five days, like the block frying? Have 18 pages of thick subpoenas been sent like the blockage fries? In the meantime, is the file already 3,000 pages thick and is there any damage as with the block frying? Or, Mr. President, do we have two states of law? One rule of law in which the public prosecutor determines, on the basis of political preference, which laws are and are not enforced? In which the public prosecutor, on the basis of political preference, decides which people are being prosecuted and not prosecuted? Mr. Chairman. It is hardly a question; it is a finding. A finding that these institutions have been taken over by left-wing activists. A finding that these people have nothing to do with the rule of law. They're doing nothing but running their left-wing agenda. How else does the Minister intend to declare that I have here a list of 34 cases of people who wanted to demonstrate against Islam? 34 times and they weren't allowed to do that in the place they wanted. Not her. A list which also contains many examples of illegal anti-demonstrations that were allowed unhindered. How is that possible? How is it that the KOZP criminals are allowed to call us and our children racists, but not the other way around? Mr. Chairman. We can only do that if we have two states of law. We have a rule of law where a minister interferes with the prosecution of a political competitor. Where the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism has a report on the MH17 modified. Where a mayor claims to choose the laws she wants to uphold and not. Where the volume of drug trafficking is 19 billion and chemistry students are recruited by the drug mafia. Where there are crime peaks around azc's and where 4,000 asylum seekers are suspected of 5,000 crimes, with peaks in Algerians and Moroccans. Why are we letting them in at all? Those are safe countries. We have a rule of law where one asylum seeker in three is suspected of a crime, while in this country you have to do your best to become a suspect at all. We have a rule of law where you as Algerian, suspected of burglaries and car thefts, are released because the Justice Department didn't have time to present the case. Where money laundering for them with a double passport is the last time on TV... is a piece of cake. Capitals disappear to Morocco, Turkey and Suriname, because it has no priority there. A rule of law where there is anarchy in prison. Where guards are kicked, beaten and threatened by prisoners. Where other guards play poker with prisoners. Where those who kicked a border judge to death are having a great time in prison. Where some prisons seem to have turned into jihadist schools and where officials think it's a good idea to distribute jihad books there. We have a country with nearly 6,000 car fires a year. Mr. Chairman. In this way, I can fill some deadlines for the rule of law. This is the depravable state of the rule of law. Who does the Minister expect to trust in this rule of law? There's hardly any point in making a report anymore. We talked about sex crimes in the previous deadlines. That's where it's complicated. A shocking story in athletics recently underlined that. More or less 16,000 cases have been identified. All they have to do is be picked up and thrown in jail. But we're not doing it, it's not happening. Deadly for trust in the rule of law. Deadly also for the motivation of those agents who are still walking the fire out of their boots, despite this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The last example. In Amsterdam, cooperation between the AIVD and the police failed in the detection of jihadists. The police refused to provide information to the municipality and failed to investigate recruitment networks. Chief of Staff: Pieter-Jaap Aalbersberg. This chief commissioner of Amsterdam, also known as "head halalcatering," spoke extensively with police-iftars Muslim brothers. The man had better contacts with suspicious mosques than with his own cops. Under his leadership, a Moroccan network was rigged within the police. Why? He left terror mosques untouched. The chief of police recorded the report of the Amsterdam police to my party leader. He called the Ramadan a sacred month. He thought a headscarf was a good idea as a police uniform. And he also stopped the terrorist attack, the arson I mentioned in my first term, the fire in the building with the Charlie Hebdo poster, in the cover-up. What is in this minister's peril to make this man, this dhimmi, responsible for the NCTV? He's working there on a blue Monday and the first thing the NCTV does, very recently, is have a chat in a Muslim brother mosque, paid out of Qatar. What kind of country is this? Mr. Chairman. It will not really surprise the Minister that large parts of the Dutch population have dropped out of confidence in the rule of law. What major plan of attack is the Minister planning to roll out in order to save the rule of law and turn those two states of law into one again? It's the cement of society where everything leans on, and the structure shakes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my motion. The President shall: Mr Dercksen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Aardema, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Peter van Dijk, Mr Van der Sluijs, Mr Kok and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the Public Prosecutor systematically dismisses cases of thieving, abusive, threatening asylum seekers acting in stolen goods;]] [[both mayors and employees of those aso-azc, who are hardly sure of their lives, find that these asylum seekers are unmanageable;]] [[these asylum seekers often come from safe countries;]] [[it is unacceptable to allow society to continue to bear the burden of this failing system;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt, as soon as possible, legislation to ensure that these asylum seekers are placed in a fully-closed establishment with the aim of arriving at a very early return to their country of origin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-AM]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This third term will be devoted to the future of the trias for the D66 group. In this context, unlike the previous speaker, I place particular emphasis on the judiciary and access to justice. I place the emphasis on many subjects very differently from the previous speaker, but I do not really need to explain that. When we completed our second term in May 2018, many questions remained unanswered. The setbacks of the KEI project had come out shortly before; it was TRConsult's report. The Justice Council and the Minister needed time to get back to work. In May 2018, the memories of the 5 July 2016 debate, not with this minister but with his predecessor, also played a part in our memory. We then dealt with four legislative proposals in this Chamber, which made digitalization possible. Even then, in 2016 and in 2018, there were concerns of those involved in the chain of law about production pressure, about shortages in funding, about the risks to the rule of law and about KEI's project risks in detail and Chamberwide. At that time, we expressed serious doubts about the pace of digitisation and funding, but Minister Van der Steur assured us that it would be all right. There are plenty of quotes available, but I'm not gonna waste any time on that. It is not often that our group had not been right on this point about the risks. But two years later, May 2018, in the first term of this debate, we saw the dark shower already hanging. New analyses would then be carried out, the Minister would have called on another consultant and ministers needed time to make serious policy choices and, if necessary, announce new legislation. That's how we broke up. The deficits in the funded legal aid were known and already thoroughly investigated. We had all the reports by Barkhuysen, Van der Meer and Van Wolfsen, and the problems at the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police were also extensively mentioned in the debate, not least by Mr Dercksen. Various commitments were made at that time and they are as good and as bad as it can be fulfilled. That was May 2018. It is now February 2019. The question is justified where we stand now. In my contribution in the second term, I preached, on behalf of the D66 Group, on another financing structure of justice. This third deadline is well in line with that, although the urgency of the problem has proved to be much greater and more fundamental because of the seriousness and extent of the problem. The urgency has increased on many fronts. We have, of course, been able to see it on those subjects, especially in the portfolio of Minister Grapperhaus, which receive a lot of publicity: criminal undermining, circuit accounts, the OM statements, the role of the WODC. In the meantime, however, the problems in civil law are also serious in the courts. Waiting times are increasing and the pressure is increasing there. For this debate, as I call it, we can consult source material: the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection to the House of Representatives of 9 November 2018 on the outlines of the revision of the system of subsidised legal aid. Two general consultations were held in the Lower House on this subject. Then there is the opinion on improving the funding system of the case law, issued by doctorandus Van den Berg on 15 November 2018 to the Judicial Council, with eight very well thought-out recommendations. He looks at the PxQ system of funding. Then there is the Council's letter for the case law of 6 November to the Minister for Legal Protection. In short, the original KEI introduction has been stopped and the council unfolds the plans for a project in slimming form. There's a lot more. We, as small self-employed people, could read for weeks in all the reports available. Finally, I mention the report Browse Finance case law of February 2019 of the Boston Consulting Group, 240 pages. This report is clear, detailed and unbearable in its seven recommendations. Mr. Chairman. What significance do these sources have for our debate today according to the interpretation of my group? The first is that KEI was an accident waiting to happen as a project. There are serious structural questions in the organisation of the judiciary, which have unfortunately been snowed under in the political debate. There was already a debate before and in 2016 on the role of the Council for Justice. I refer to the many publications in the Dutch Juristenblad, the Oppositelichtgroep. Frits Bakker, as President of the Judicial Council, has also manifested itself in this. We had the Leeuwarder Manifest. Mr Ruers has also discussed it extensively in the first term. We had long heard the former President of this Chamber, Herman Tjeenk Willink, from the experts here, but also in a number of publications, warn of the "governance" of justice, most recently in the NJB 2018. Here's what I've been reading again. Frits Bakker recognizes in the dialogue with Counter-Light, I quote: 'that justice is sucked into the financial problems of the Ministry of Security and Justice, which it is not part of'. Further on, he writes: "The relationship between state powers is not entirely in order in the Netherlands. The independence of the court is not at stake, at least not directly, but the position of the caselaw as a separate state power is." That is what the President-in-Office of the Council says and writes for the case law a few years ago, even before the debacle came out. Of course, he couldn't have guessed that at the time. I certainly hope not. He also said: "It is now particularly important that KEI legislation be adopted by the Upper House for the summer. It is not possible to remove the skepticism about the pace at which KEI is being realized." No, "at least" was in 2018 and that is of course already quite difficult. I am looking at the Minister, who, of course, took this to heart. This was already discussed in this house in 2016 when the judicial card was revised. My former colleague Scholten was one of those who expressed concern about the role of the Council in the area of justice. It was way too close to the department, and it turns out to be true. Mr. Chairman. The increasing complexity of society raises new questions. We have internationalisation, we have EU legislation, we have complicated situations in society that judges have to deal with when they have passed the state's attorney's stage in a criminal case. But the money also for civil affairs, business and all that stuff. The development of professional standards for judges has been one of the wishes and one of the opportunities to improve work in quality. Interesting in BCG's report is that it has been examined how the matter's gravity may have increased. Where did that come from? There are all kinds of very legitimate reasons, which we have all wanted in legislation, such as the position of the victim in criminal matters. Speaking rights, of course, extend the term of office. They're also filing civil claims. That also calls for trial time. The introduction of the OM decision seems strange enough to create additional session time. You'd think the opposite is true. The holding of directing hearings by a judge commissioner calls for extra time in court. So it is not so much the judge who is doing it slowly, but we as co-legislator have asked for these things. Does the Minister recognise and endorse these influences, aspects and reasons? Mr. Chairman. In the BCG report you can see something that was actually already in Van der Meer's report. For example, the introduction of the Wmo between 2013 and 2015 has generated a doubling of a number of cases in the pgb and the care sector. Laziness, slowness or inefficiency, which will always be there, are not responsible for the shortcomings in the judgments, because justice is not an efficient process, but also because of external causes. The Van der Meer report then advocates a funding impulse for the Court of Justice of 127 million. That money didn't come. There have been targets on the budget. Then you wonder if savings are possible. I am looking at Mr. Postema. We've both been financial spokesmen. Some of them still are. Then you look for savings on budgets. BCG has mapped that out for the budget of V and J, the case-law section, and concludes that I quote "all in all the case-law over the next five years is not able to balance the financial resources and tasks'. Here we are. Does the Minister share this conclusion? What to do? You always know us as future-oriented. We are now. We would say to the Minister: start by taking these analyses to heart and worrying about the position of justice within the triad. They've been mentioned for years and not by the least. I just mentioned them. Then start with the legislation on the right side. The increase in the cost of legal aid is expressly not. That is a pars pro toto of the system that beeps and cracks and in which dedicated professionals try to do their work. The chain of law is in danger of being crushed between efficiency-driven governance models. Everything's been analyzed long enough. The ailments are known. A course on social law is not going to make the patient better, but it is going to demotivate a dedicated profession. That's already a big deal. The opinion of the D66 group is: make this crisis, because that's what it is, a chance, but don't put one piece in the puzzle that doesn't fit. I'm going to go into the contour letter explicitly. Don't go into the rattles of the rule of law. Don't go digging it out or adding new ones. Do not create a façade that exacerbates the problems, because behind that façade lie the real problems I have just mentioned. They're waiting for a solution. Mr. Chairman. I read in that letter about self-help packages. We are always in favour of innovation, but there are limits to self-help. In the meantime, we have found out about this in many cases in Social Affairs and other areas, as far as we did not know. There was also a very recent and interesting vision document from the Council of Ministers in February on the issue of debt itself. I don't know if the minister knows it yet. It contains 18 recommendations. There is no gatekeeper, but a debt officer and someone who conducts regular coordination meetings between the court and professional parties. Mr. Chairman. Experiments on how the court should work in the future have a lot of support in this Chamber. That is what we said in the last round. But that is not the same as experimenting with access to justice and funded legal aid. That's two different things. Furthermore, it should be noted that in 2017 the strengthening of the Legal Loket was consulted by Minister Blok; I now summarise this very briefly. In my view, the contour letter focuses on its dismantling. Why the change of course? I'd like an explanation. And what exactly happened to that proposal? Somehow I read that it is not going to continue, but has it been withdrawn and, if so, why? Mr. Chairman. The financed case law has a kind of dialectic: read the interesting article in Jan Westhoff's NJB. It states that "since 1970 and since 2002 a drastic reduction is envisaged about once every four years." The contour letter has been discussed in the Lower House and I am not going to review it here. But the concept of "contouring" that I know in speech usage is a drawing that only needs to be colored and refined in order to get a complete picture. But in modern speech use there are also computer-generated, active contours. They move on in an image for the purpose of finding object boundaries. The aftertaste of the letter and the debates are more like that. Even though that letter from the Minister for Legal Protection contains many noble things and good intentions, the most urgent and compelling problem that both the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the legal profession are struggling with, each in its own way, is formed by the organisation, administration and institutional independence as well as the financing of the chain of law within the trias. And that concerns both ministers. This problem is not addressed in any fundamental way. However, this problem is urgent. That is why my group is tabling a motion in which the Chamber asks the government to develop a vision on this issue. Mr. Chairman. We do indeed have the handicap of having to file motions immediately, so that's why I'm doing it now. In that sense, I apologize to both rulers, because I have not yet been able to hear their answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u4	It's just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u5	Maybe they have that vision. Then I can always hold or withdraw this motion. Mr Backer, Mr Pijlman, Mr Andriessen, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Vink and Mr Bredenoord proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas independent justice is one of the three pillars of the trias politicians;]] [[Whereas, in order to enable independent dispute resolution to function properly, access to it for the seeking citizen as a constitutional (Article 17 GW) and constitutional (Article 6 ECHR) principle is cherished by both the legislator and the executive power in the Dutch democratic rule of law;]] [[Considers that the incremental structural deficits of (parts of) the legal chain are incompatible with the importance of the rule of law for society and that this puts pressure on compliance with the above-mentioned principle;]] [[Considers that the cause of the deficits is not only due to political priorities in the state budget, but also related to the establishment, in particular, of the mandate and composition of the Council for Justice, the financing system of the legal chain, the impact of unforeseen economies of scale and societal changes that are not adequately anticipated (including debt issues, compliance pressures and complexity of legislation);]] [[calls on the Government to develop a vision of the future of the judiciary as part of the trias, taking into account these considerations, and to prepare consistent policies in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-AN]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stick to the subsidised legal aid. In the contour note, this is called a watch. It says, "The system needs to be thoroughly revised." I also read: 'So the system must be on the shovel'. And the letter also contains an intriguing number of statements and statements which can be refuted by numerous studies, in order to add to a plan which leaves nothing to be desired in one area of clarity: it is going to change as far as this minister is concerned. How? That's what we're gonna find out. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, this can only lead to one conclusion, compared to the context of what I have just said: the contour letter is what is also called a potemkin village. In Russian it is Potjomkin. For those who do not know that concept: in the Tsar era, a team of the forward court staff set up decor pieces to give the coming Tsar the impression that the villages lived happily and prosperously. It's now called in the letter "triage at the front." That also sounds chic, but it comes down to the same thing. It removes sight of the underlying problem, which has been described excellently but also staggeringly by the many reports and opinions discussed. Why do I dare to speak about this with a certain degree of certainty and hardness? Because this also has a history in this Chamber, and this Chamber certainly has a right to speak on this subject. It was respectively the motion-Scholten c.s. (EK 34000-VI, O) and the Franken c.s. motion (EK 34000-VI, M) who called on 20 January 2015 to investigate the causes of cost increases in the legal assistance financed. In response, the government set up the Wolfsen Commission. On 16 February 2017, a bill by Minister Blok as a Sustainable System of Legal Assistance Bill went into consultation; I was just talking about it. I pulled that bill again. The explanatory statement states that this was the government response to the Barkhuysen report, the Van der Meer report and the Wolfsen report by Rutte II. That is why my question to this Minister is: why did the government at the time consider that there should be legislation and now, apparently, no more? For the sketched triage would make the word a separate exegesis possible, but we are not going to do so now without a clear legal basis is going to raise legal questions in this house; you don't have to be a psychic for that. This also applies to the apparently planned system of regulating material matters per AMvB. If I read the pieces correctly, that means that the Minister says: I'm going to prep a few AMvBs, and then I'll come to the Chamber again in 2024. Surely Article 6 of the ECHR should lead us all? This was also the view of the government in the context of the comprehensive balancing framework that was sent with the consultation at the time. But she doesn't think so now, unless I'm mistaken. And here too, I should like to make that quite clear. I therefore ask for a ruling on that point, Mr President. The President shall: Mr Backer, Mr Andriessen, Mr Pijlman, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Vink, Mr Stienen and Mr Bredenoord proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government financed legal aid in the contours note Revision scheme (letter dated 9 November 2018) announces a major change in the system;]] [[noting that this letter forms part of the deliberations on the state of the rule of law;]] [[Whereas, for the time being, the legal basis for such a thorough system review is unclear;]] [[Considers that, pursuant to Article 17 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the ECHR, the principle of access to justice is a fundamental right which should be monitored and safeguarded;]] [[expresses its opinion that if such a fundamental change in access to funded legal aid would be desirable for the seeker, this change should be made by law in a formal sense and, moreover, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-AO]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not only am I critical, but I also come up with directions where I think things could be better. I give a number of building blocks. Of course, one of the most important issues is JenV's budget in the spring note and the budget laws. We are not talking about this, we can only express moral support. And I also think that, in view of the outline I have given, the targets for the public prosecutor and for legal proceedings cannot be reconciled with the solution of these issues that the ministers stand for. I hope that they will be able to convince their colleagues, and of course our former colleague, Mr Hoekstra, of this. There must be additional occasional and structural money. Mr. Chairman. I will leave that to colleagues across the street. I speak in a few key words about what I think are building blocks for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr Backer, I would remind you that you are approaching the end of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u10	I have 56 seconds, Mr President, if we work from the same clock. I'm not gonna solve everything in there, but I still want to put a few things down. Take the words of Herman Tjeenk Willink to heart and rethink the task of the judge. In civil matters, take the address of Ruth de Bock to heart when looking at the volume of business. Get on with the experimental articles for justice. I would like to know what the status of this is. Also look at the Council's vision paper on debt justice. My group believes that the administration and organisation of the Council should be transformed into a body of judges, governors or governors of the courts, with a mandate for the whole organisation. A reduction in size and a reduction in costs. I have just spoken about funding. I think the incentives are wrong and justice needs stability for at least five years, so that we can work forward and not every time we are trying to adjust the budget. I just talked about the law. We received a letter from the Minister. I am not going to press for further discussion. The Minister would do well to talk to the representatives of the profession. I'd like to hear if the Minister is prepared to do so. Then about the D.A.'s office. I am looking in particular at Minister Grapperhaus for that point. Do I understand that the OM funding is about to take the same turn as at the time at the sitting magistrate? This has also been discussed in the House of Representatives and the Van Dam motion has been adopted. Think before you begin. I am very curious: what are the intentions and what is true? Or is this all just a rumor? Finally, I would like to conclude by appealing to these rulers. Let them be the first to tackle the Triad's future in a truly fundamental way. I invited them to that, and they have it in the house to do that. I would like to conclude with a quote from our former chairman, Herman Tjeenk Willink. "Finally, if we can learn anything from developments in recent decades within the Dutch democratic legal order, it is this: if only money is sent and the content and underlying values are neglected, the final costs for government and community are higher." Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is looking forward to the answers of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u11	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the fact that we cannot take a street of law for granted makes us painfully aware of developments in different Member States. A rule of law is no less than the foundation of our society. But without attention and maintenance, a foundation can also rot. Since the previous debate on the state of the rule of law in May 2018, my group has had the impression that this cabinet's vision of the rule of law is based mainly on finance and funding structures. As far as we're concerned, that's the world upside down. Should we not first formulate our values and principles, such as human rights, accessibility, legal certainty and equality of law, reliability, checks-and-balances, and then determine the conditions to be met? A rule of law cannot be a lockpoint, nor can it breathe with budgetary discipline or targets. The government seems to be putting the idea of self-reliant citizens more and more at the centre of the rule of law. Of course, the government can appeal to the self-reliance of citizens. But only in view of those who cannot save themselves and by facilitating citizens to direct their choices. For the cabinet, however, the call for self-reliance seems to be little more than a veil for substantial cuts in legal aid, for example. But is not the low-skilled and relatively poor, non-self-reliant citizen particularly affected by these measures? Mr. Chairman. Whether it is the errors in decisions by the prosecution, the impairment of legal aid or the enormous financial and workload of the judiciary, the alarm bells sound from all angles. My group is particularly concerned about what the accumulation of these signals means for overall access to justice and, in particular, access to justice. In our view, this is becoming increasingly difficult and threatens the core values of our rule of law, equality and legal certainty. My contribution will therefore focus on the following three points: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the proposed changes to legal aid and, finally, the independence of the judiciary. Oh, no, the other way around, but it doesn't matter. First of all, the D.A.'s office. The evaluation of the OM Act shows that many people oppose criminal decisions. In 38% of the cases in which the opposition was lodged, a lower sentence was ultimately imposed by the judge. That's a disturbingly high percentage. It says something about the accuracy of the first OM decision. In addition, we know from the investigation that has been carried out that a lot of criminal decisions were based on false assumptions and therefore had to be destroyed. This gives a rather staggering picture of the quality and care of the decision-making process associated with the imposition of criminal decisions. Nevertheless, the Minister concludes that the criminal decision has taken a permanent place in the Dutch system of penalties. The investigation is still ongoing, but I would like to ask the Minister whether the new measures that are being taken will also make decision-making more careful. The minister is going to look more closely at what the judge would impose, but that does not say anything about the quality of the decision. Is the Minister prepared, in a further evaluation, to consider the criminal decision not to be some kind of sacred means that we cannot deviate from? Is he also prepared to see whether it is the right remedy in all these cases and whether its use should no longer be restricted? The increasing use of the instrument of "penalty decisions" is not in itself, but it is in line with the trend towards increasingly difficult access to the criminal justice system. This also depends on the legislator's choice to equip public administration with instruments of a punitive nature. Once a mayor has been given certain powers by the legislator, he is also expected to use them fully, and often not only for a preventive purpose. From society that sounds, but certainly also from the judiciary and the police, who prefer to use their own powers and capacity for other matters. Does the Minister recognise that, because of the wide differences in procedural safeguards and the role of the judge in administrative and criminal law, measures of a punitive nature should be reserved for criminal law? And how is the use of administrative powers monitored in this light? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the organisation and management also threaten the accessibility and quality of the judiciary. I'm not just talking about the criminal justice. No one noticed that the failure of the KEI project had a significant financial impact on the budget of justice. Apart from the IT problems, it is relevant to reflect critically on the role of the Council for Justice in this matter, but also on other financial issues of the rule of law. A survey carried out by the Opposite Member State Group shows that the vast majority of respondents are concerned about a further extension of control and enforcement powers for the Judicial Board. A large majority of respondents, almost everyone, indicate that a top-down governance direction with more control for the Council of Justice does not tolerate the function of the judiciary as an independent third state power. In addition, 97% of the respondents fully agree that it is unacceptable that the negative financial consequences of the KEI reset are entirely passed on to the budget of the case-law. The Nederlandse Vereniging voor Rechtrecht also pointed to the Council's particularly complex position in the financial debate. In the interests of an independent rule of law, it is of course very important that it should be able to rely on the other powers at any time for financial or legislative means. In the event of an emergency, it must never be called into question. But these principles are under pressure in the current "government model" and there are signs of "constant uncertainty about invested responsibilities and perseverance." Let us take the recent review of the finances of the case law by BCG as an illustration: it gives a debugging picture. The case law will not be able to balance financial resources and tasks for at least the next five years. In recent years, case law has been confronted with a substantial but unpaid increase in the number of cases, while the total number of cases continues to decline and thus also the financing. On the basis of the preliminary implementation figures, a structural deficit of almost 50 million is expected to increase. Even with the recommended cuts, BCG indicates that the imbalance cannot be resolved by the own resources of the judiciary. One of BCG's recommendations is to consider the closure of courts. This recommendation may not be surprising, given the one-dimensional approach of this screening, but it is precisely for this reason that it is not useful either. My group urges the Minister not to adopt this recommendation. The revision of the judicial card has caused enough unrest and reduced the physical accessibility of the judiciary. The Court of Justice has already undertaken not to adopt this recommendation. But it is precisely here that the tension between the Council's role in financing justice and the independence of the judiciary is evident. Does the Minister recognise the bottlenecks created by the current control model, and what is he going to do about it? Is he still convinced that this top-down structure that has led to a gap between the workplace and drivers is the right one? My colleague Ruers has just returned to the First Chamber in time to vote on his own motion, which calls for an investigation into the improvement of institutional independence. We wholeheartedly support this motion, but perhaps the Minister is already prepared to say so. Of course, it is important for the judges themselves to be involved in the analysis and solutions. But what short-term and long-term solutions does the Minister see for financial deficits? Is he prepared to make a structural increase in the budget? Wouldn't the independence of the judiciary also be better secured by a more independent financing system? And what solutions does the Minister see for the ongoing problems of digitisation, which should be supportive of high-quality and independent justice rather than frustrating? How does it facilitate the use of other new technology that can support justice? We have received letters about Artificial Intelligence and its pilots. Our question is also how we can prevent the mistakes made by the prosecution and the judiciary from being incorporated into that Artificial Intelligence and built on it. Mr. Chairman. Access to justice cannot be guaranteed without a proper and accessible system of funded legal aid. Legislation, case law and the organisation of our society are far too complicated for that. And that is why the plans to revise the system of subsidised legal aid give cause for concern. In any event, the introduction of the gatekeeper will restrict access to the funded legal aid for low-income people, even if the gatekeeper's advice is non-binding. Does the Minister recognize this? Does he also recognise that a seeker of justice can face a higher contribution of his own if he does not follow the advice and wants access to a lawyer? Is the judgment about usefulness and necessity still bothering him? Or isn't that the case? If that is not the case, what exactly are the role and function of the possibility of objection and appeal against an opinion, if the opinion did not have any effect? I would like to explain this further. We are also very pleased that it is only an opinion that has no consequences, but we would like to know more precisely that it will not restrict access to justice. The whole process of questions of advice and the like will become more expensive, but also more time-consuming and complex to get access to justice. Will it not lead to legal inequality between low-income and high-income people, as it will depend on someone's wallet if they can be assisted by a lawyer? In order to be a little more certain that this is not going to happen, I would like to table this motion. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Vlietstra, Mr Ruers, Mr Baay-Timmerman and Mr Binnema proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cost development of legal aid packages is still unknown until mid-2019;]] [[Whereas it is important from the point of view of the principle of legal equality that the rule of law should apply as low a threshold as possible to the course of justice;]] [[calls on the Government not to attach its own contribution to legal aid packages applied for by those seeking justice to follow or not follow the non-binding advice of the gatekeeper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-AP]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u13	Has the Minister correctly identified the consequences of the contour note and the revision of the offer of funded legal aid? The limited circle of social lawyers has had to cope with many blows in recent years. If they cannot maintain quality, accessible legal aid and therefore good legal protection will be lost anyway. Moreover, social lawyers are already focusing on practical solutions, while preserving the importance for people to be able to achieve their rights. It is, of course, good to see how the system can be optimised, but the current plans are based on assumptions and intentions, such as, for example, countering judicialisation by the government and involving commercial lawyers in the funded legal aid. Fine, must be done, but there is no reason to anticipate a change in these reckless practices and patterns. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I have already discussed in detail last year's budget the intention to reduce legal aid in asylum matters. Due to the high risks associated with this limitation for the quality of the decision and legal protection, this Chamber then instructed the government to carry out an impact assessment on the implications for care and the impact on the partners in the asylum chain, in particular the IND and the case law. What is the status of this investigation and does the government also include the role and capacities of and the consequences for the legal profession? Mr. Chairman. The democratic rule of law is like a vase. We all love it. This is not original, but it's very fitting, but do we realize its fragility? It is not just a question of investing sufficiently in the chain, but also of protecting democratic decision-making when it comes to our laws and regulations. We see that the role of Parliament is increasingly under pressure because we deal with delegation bases more often than substantive legislation. The great extent to which legislation is developed through AMvBs is not only detrimental to the democratic legitimacy of legislation and regulation, but also affects the awareness of rules for citizens and the quality of legislation. The government's intention to use AMvBs more frequently when implementing EU legislation to prevent ministries from running out of time is the world upside down. There is a two-year implementation period. That should be sufficient for the ministries to give us sufficient time and space to deal with implementing laws. Can the Minister promise that he will continue to work for timely implementation without compromising the most desirable level of legislation and democratic involvement? Mr. Chairman. During the budgetary procedure, the Chamber instructed the government to ensure that refugees from Venezuela have access to proper asylum and reception procedures in all countries of the Kingdom, without being automatically placed in detention. Can the Minister tell us what's going on with that? We read again today that Aruba is dealing with large numbers of refugees. Is that country also involved in strengthening legal protection? Finally, one final point. One of the characteristics of the First Chamber is that it is not the delusion of the day that is central here, but that we are aware of the long-term and learning of the past. Our great memory comes in handy. Five years ago, this Chamber instructed the government to ensure that the Netherlands would quickly join the optional protocols to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, to the Convention on Children's Rights and to the Disability Convention. The Court considered that it was important that citizens should be able to invoke these conventions. Despite many reappearances, by both the Committee on Justice and the Committee on VWS, and many half promises, we are still empty-handed. The latest state of play is a commitment that the legislative proposal for ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights would be submitted to the Council of State, together with an application for an opinion on the implications of the individual right of complaint with the other two conventions. This commitment also dates back about a year ago. In this matter, the cabinet seems to be over the shame. So far, it has not provided any valid argument for ignoring this Chamber statement. I am thinking of not leaving the Chamber if there is no clarification about this in the coming months. I hope that will at least give these ministers an incentive to clarify this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I call Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the context of this third term, I would like to focus on a commitment made (T02602) following a motion from this Chamber. And that concerns the investigation into the automatic notification of the withdrawal of the Dutch jihadism. On the basis of the now accepted legislative proposal Amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in connection with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interest of national security, the Minister is obliged to carry out an act of his own accord which results in a judicial review of his own revocation decision, even if the jihadist concerned clearly does not wish to exercise his right of appeal or even objects to appeal. In the debate in question, I referred to this as an insane form of legal protection. It is rather ridiculous that if a terrorist is taken from the Netherlands, then the minister himself will have to challenge his own decision. For example, this is about a person who hates our Dutch society, who has joined IS and who threatens to come back to our country to commit an attack. Because this person can just be too busy killing people in Syria to read in the Staatsroek that his Dutchmanship has taken off, the minister has to challenge his own decision. This really shows a little too much empathy with such terrorists. A majority of this Chamber then supported my motion to seek alternatives to this particular construction. I'm gonna stop right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u16	I am a little surprised at Mr Van Dijk's persistence. Sustainability is usually good, but in this case we are talking about the state of the rule of law. Detailed research has been carried out on your motion, and I think that is an honour, I must say. It is clear from this study that it is simply not possible, legally speaking, to create an appeal for such a radical measure as the withdrawal of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u17	I notice that Mrs. Strik has read a different investigation than I have. I would like to return to your question, because that is a large part of my speech, which is not very long. I'll come back and we'll see if we're talking about the same investigation. As I said, a majority of this Chamber then supported my motion to seek alternatives to this particular construction. On behalf of the Ministry, the University of Groningen has carried out an investigation into the aforementioned legal construction. A clear written report. The report refers to the profession as automatically an unusual arrangement for administrative law. In addition, the report makes it clear that there are no decisive legal objections to the automatic removal of the appeal in question. I quote from the report: "Neither the ECHR nor the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights require a procedure with more guarantees than the ordinary appeal procedure of the General Administrative Law Act for repeal decisions under Article 14 (4) RWN." In other words: the AWB also offers jihadists sufficient legal protection on this point. This is an important point, because in the House of Representatives the alleged European requirements for the Minister of Foreign Affairs were an important reason for defending the proposed construction. I quote Minister Van der Steur: 'We are dealing here with a far-reaching measure that is irreversible and has far-reaching consequences. Not only from that line of thinking, but also from the point of view that we must comply with European guarantees, there is a number of measures in the law on this point, which must ensure that we comply with those European guarantees. In doing so, we want to ensure that this is sustainable and sustainable as far as possible." It was therefore, to a large extent, also the European guarantees, which the report says are not being asked of us at all by Europe. Please note that perhaps that is where Mrs Strik's question comes from, and I want to be completely transparent, and I would like to write to the authors of the report that the removal of the profession is not, in their view, desirable because of the far-reaching nature of the withdrawal decision. I have read that too, but it is very good to note that this is a political view and not a legal obligation, either nationally or from Europe. This political balance must be made by the cabinet and by parliament. However, the executive dismisses the entire report of the University of Groningen with literally one sentence: "The research report does not give rise to an amendment of Article 22a of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap." No further justification or explanation. I think that this does not do much justice to the thorough report from Groningen, but as far as I am concerned, this is not a serious reaction to this Chamber's motion either. That is why I would very much like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Baay-Timmerman and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap (RWN) obliges the Minister to carry out, on his own initiative, an act leading to judicial review of his own decision to withdraw from the Netherlands in the interests of national security, even if the person concerned clearly does not wish to exercise his right of appeal or even objects to appeal;]] [[having also noted that, by way of motion 34356-(R2064), the First Chamber asked the Government to have an investigation into alternatives to this unusual construction of the compulsory automatic appeal in administrative law;]] [[noting that this examination, carried out by the University of Groningen, has shown that there are no legally decisive objections to the automatic removal of the appeal in question and that the AWB's regular appeal procedure already provides sufficient legal protection;]] [[Whereas it is not reasonable to give an additional form of legal protection to those from whom the Dutch community has been reduced under Article 14 RWN;]] [[Calls on the Government to reconsider the above-mentioned obligation of the Minister for the automatic exercise of an act leading to a judicial review of its own revocation decision, and to inform the Chambers thereof before 1 September 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-AQ]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding the third term of the policy debate on the state of the rule of law. As members of the JenV committee, we have made a kind of division on the diversity of subjects in order to avoid unnecessary repetition of positions. My group will focus in particular on the digitisation of justice. We subscribe to the letters of 19 December 2018 and of 1 and 13 February of the Minister for Legal Protection, in which he outlines the future of the use and application of algorithms and artificial intelligence in justice. Let us be clear: we welcome our principles on the application of artificial intelligence, purely in support of the decision-making process in order to arrive at statements. In addition, it can give a better understanding to the seeking citizen of his chances of success in a procedure. However, 50PLUS still has a lot of reservations about the application of artificial intelligence in justice and its consequences for the legal services. Because, as mentioned earlier, algorithms can also discover much less obvious patterns and formulate inscrutable predictions for humans based on them. The danger lies in the fact that it is not known to humans and it is also impossible to find out which data is collected by an algorithm and how the algorithm processes this data. The lack of transparency about algorithms is an important point of attention, because a computer algorithm can distort information unnoticed and thus also the opinion of the judge in his judgment or judgment. The Minister recognises that digitisation offers opportunities, but also poses threats. He states in his letter of 19 December 2018 on page 10, that when using artificial intelligence, the outcome must always be subject to judicial review. My group would like to hear how the Minister is going to implement this guarantee in practice, especially in cases where no appeal has been made. Does the court refer these results to them before the expiry of the time limit for bringing proceedings or are they subject to ex post review? Does the Minister really think that with the already inhumane pressure on judges, these judgments will be reviewed against which no appeal has even been made? Is that a real expectation? Professor of Psychology Van Vugt also warns about the psychological effects of the use of artificial intelligence. After all, in our current society, we often jump to conclusions, which are drawn only by self-learning algorithms based on states. Transparency about the extent to which an algorithm is insightful can only be achieved if you can understand and explain it yourself, but companies or governments often do not want or can't tell how their algorithms work. That may be because of intellectual property or a confidentiality obligation, but it may also be because they do not understand exactly how their self-learning algorithm works. If artificial intelligence is intended to actually produce judgments in the future, how can the courts be required to further justify the conclusions of artificial intelligence, on which the judgments are then based? How will this transparency be secured and who or which organisation will monitor it? Is this left to private organisations or is the government monitoring this? I would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u21	I would like to understand Mrs Baay. Does it assume that, after a ruling has been made, there will be another check-up to verify that the algorithm has been properly applied and that a reasonable and just ruling has been reached? Or does it also see the possibility that my group would see more obvious that the algorithm itself is subject to control and that the judiciary is transparent about that? So it's not so much about checking the output but rather about checking the algorithm before, so on the input side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u22	Of course, the latter is absolutely preferable, because it can prevent possible errors. I would like to mention, for example, the traffic fines where the rules are followed by the citizens. We have asked questions with the SP about, for example, not putting it in the right place in the car of a disabled card. Digitisation results in a fine, while citizens themselves have fully complied with the prescribed rules. Citizens already have an incredible amount of work to do in these cases, starting often with an objection, which in turn is not honoured because it is also rejected by digitalisation. Then there is the possibility of a notice of appeal and only then will a judge look into it, and in many cases it will still be honoured. We are now talking only about traffic fines as an example, but if you are going to use this kind of complex matter in cases where deprivation of liberty is at stake, then it must also be clear to a judge that algorithms cannot create an error message that ultimately creates a distorted image. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of a digital infrastructure into justice, as envisaged by the Minister, costs money, a lot of money. The pressing question is, of course, who is going to finance it, whereas there are already serious shortcomings in the case law. The Boston Consulting Group, the BCG, recently examined in February in the Finance Review report the fact that an annual negative balance in the case law has been created since 2016 and why these financial deficits will increase rather than decrease. One of the factors mentioned is the unrealised savings of the EUR 54 million resulting from the discontinuation of the KEI digitisation programme. My group asks the Minister how he intends to finance the necessary use of artificial intelligence in the future. A second factor for the deficit is the significant reduction in the number of cases which reduces the amount of money received. On the other hand, there is an increase in the complexity of cases, which means that they cost more time while the reimbursement per case does not go up and the fixed costs remain the same. Does the Minister believe that the solution will also be to apply artificial intelligence to the more complex issues, so that it can achieve the desired cost savings? When does he expect the results of the experiments he mentioned to ensure the core values, as expressed in his letter of 13 February? One of the recommendations in the BCG report to reduce the fixed burden is to dispose of jurisdictional sites through the sale of court buildings. In the broadcast of Nieuwsuur on 7 February last, Mrs Van Waterschoot, judge and chairman of the Dutch Association for Justice, reacted strongly against this. She stressed how relevant hearings are, because a paper file does not always contain all the essential details necessary to make an informed ruling. It is not uncommon to change a position taken before the session after the session. The closure of judicial sites makes it even more difficult for citizens to reach justice. Travel times and travel expenses are an obstacle to going to the hearing. The President-in-Office of the Council for Justice, Mr Naves, also states that there is no social and political support for the closure of judicial sites. Does the Minister agree with Van Waterschoot and Naves that the closure and sale of these sites should be avoided, even if this would lead to cost savings? Mr. Chairman. Finally, 50PLUS asks the Minister what he intends to do with the results of the BCG report, concluding that a future increase in financial deficits in the case-law should certainly be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u23	I listened to Mrs Baay's story about the algorithms. She asked the Minister about the possible contribution of algorithms to solving the financial problems of justice. Are I to say that she herself thinks that this technique can speed up so that the financial structure can be maintained and that it can resolve itself in this way? Or is it part of the contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u24	It is part of my contribution, but it is in particular the Minister's approach, which states that this could reduce the workload of the judiciary. This may allow things to be resolved more quickly, but as I have already pointed out in my contribution, this will entail considerable risks as long as we do not know exactly the transparency of the application of algorithms. I can also imagine how difficult that is for a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u25	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Mrs Vlietstra has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. Ministers have kept their word: almost all the commitments they have made have received a letter. My group thanks them for that. This gives the Court the opportunity to have a deeper exchange of views on a number of important issues in this third period. My group will not address all the sixteen issues on which a letter has been received and chooses to confine itself to those matters which we consider to be of the highest priority. In particular, I am addressing the Minister for Legal Protection. Mr. Chairman. What is the status of justice? Are the concerns expressed nine months ago taken away in the letters that have reached us? Is there a positive development in relation to the situation at the time? My group's answer to these questions is negative. The judiciary appears to be in a downward spiral. As a result of the failure of Quality and Innovation case law and the declining number of cases, he is facing major financial shortages, and in the letters we have received, we do not yet read that the Minister for Legal Protection is prepared to meet the judiciary. Those who have followed the reports in recent months cannot escape the impression that the position of justice as one of the three pillars of the trias politician has been further weakened. Lawyers, judges, prosecutors, trade unions, all ring the bell. The picture that is emerging is that the financial situation is hopeless, the workload is structurally too high, the desired innovation does not come off the ground and the Minister does not give home. Less than two weeks ago, we were told that the justice system had a structural deficit of 50 million and that perhaps a new reorganisation would be necessary in order to remedy this. I'll get back to you on that. Does the Secretary of Law recognize this image? Can the Minister state what the judiciary is up to at the moment? Has the financial situation deteriorated further compared to a year ago? My group sees at least two things that contribute to the considerable deficits: the failed digitisation and the funding system of justice. In his letter of 20 November, the Minister went into the way of financing. 95% is based on output financing: agreed price times number of cases completed. This agreed price takes into account the costs of housing, central services and innovation. In recent years, production has fallen sharply and own funds have been exhausted. This puts pressure on the possibilities for the innovation that this Minister also wants. In my group's view, the funding system has reached its limits and the many opinions that have appeared in recent years, including the General Court, the Boston Consulting Group and Mr van den Berg, lead to that same conclusion. Mr van den Berg has been asked for his opinion by the Minister for Justice and the Council. He called for large innovative projects such as digitalisation to be budgeted separately, for small innovations to be agreed on a fixed amount and for the costs of housing and support services to be excluded from production-related costs. In response to this opinion, the Minister said that it had been agreed with the Council for the case-law that "a proposal should be drawn up jointly defining which elements should no longer be part of prices but could nevertheless be involved in the process of setting new prices." Mr. Chairman. My group does not yet read a great sense of urgency with the Minister. Can the Minister promise that the 2020-2022 price agreements will be made on the basis of a financing system that is in line with the opinions issued, with a view to turning the race to the bottom or, in a positive way, moving up the road? Mr. Chairman. Remarkable is the sharp decline in the number of cases. What does the Minister see as the causes of this? Do citizens have less reason to sue? Do they perhaps make more use of other forms of dispute resolution? Are only more complex cases still being brought to justice? Is suing too expensive? Do citizens experience too much physical distance from justice? Is the state's attorney unable to bring cases to justice due to the high workload? Only when there is an understanding of underlying causes can it be appreciated for the greatly decreasing number of cases. We would therefore like to hear the Minister's answer to these questions. I come back to a remark I made earlier. The judiciary has a structural deficit of 50 million and according to the advice of the Boston Consulting Group, justice can only cover a very limited part of it itself. One of the savings opportunities mentioned in the opinion is the closure of small courts. Mrs Baay mentioned that as well. More than a year ago, we received the review of the legal card bill, carried out by the Kummeling Committee. The Committee came to the conclusion that reducing the number of courts, courts and prosecutors to the intended higher quality was only very limited. The Committee recommends that the implementation processes of the HGK be given more time and that no new institutional or structural organisations be implemented in the short term. In this light, how does the Minister assess the advice of the Boston Consulting Group? Does it share the Council's view in the case-law that further closure of courts is not at issue? My group is pleased to receive a firm commitment from the Minister that closing the courts and thereby increasing the distance for the citizen to justice will not take place. Since we are only speaking in one term today, my group would like to table a motion on this point in case the Minister does not wish to make a commitment. The President shall: Mr Vlietstra, Mr Ruers, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Baay-Timmerman and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Boston Consulting Group shows that the case law has a structural deficit of EUR 50 million;]] [[Whereas the revision of the judicial card has substantially reduced the number of courts, courts and courts;]] [[Whereas this has increased the distance between citizens and the judicial system and that a further closure of (small) courts will lead to an undesirable further increase in the distance between citizens and the case-law;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the Government Agreement "Confidence in the future" agreed that existing courts and courts should in principle not be closed;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain existing courts and courts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-AR]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u27	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming up on digitization. In his letter on the progress of digitalisation after the failure of the Quality and Innovation project, the Minister outlines that now being deployed in a controlled, responsible and realistic way of achieving digital accessibility. My group believes that this is a sensible approach. But, Mr President, the Minister does not give butter to the fish! The Court of Justice has indicated that this controlled digitisation is estimated to require an estimated EUR 11 million, of which EUR 3.4 million can be contributed by the case-law itself. Important disclaimer is that no net financial benefits are expected in the policy period '20-'22. In this respect, it has been learned from the failure of KEI, in which savings were already made in advance. In his letter, the Minister elaborates on the process of digitisation and the involvement of his ministry in this process, but chooses a cautious attitude for the financial part of the plan. What is the Minister's commitment, that is what my group is asking? Does he think that the case-law itself should bear the costs? Can he indicate what possibilities he sees for this? Another question of another order: how does the Minister see digital litigation in the long term? Does he intend to make this mandatory for all jurisdictions and judges in the future? My second point concerns access to justice for those seeking justice. In the policy debate last year, my group discussed, among other things, the disappearance of canton courts and hence the greater physical distance for those seeking justice. The Minister has undertaken to investigate further the number of absenteeism cases as a result of this. The Kummeling Committee also calls for in-depth research to be carried out on this issue, given the importance of physical accessibility. Unfortunately, the Minister has not yet taken any action on this commitment. He merely reports that the aim is to conduct an investigation into default sentences in 2019. My group finds this disappointing. Can the Minister promise that it will not only be 'his aim', but that the investigation will actually be carried out this year and submitted to the Chamber? Access to justice has an important role to play in subsidising legal aid. The letter sent by the Minister in November bears the somewhat euphemistic title 'Contours review system subsidised legal aid'. In the discussion in the House of Representatives, the Minister stressed that these were contours and not a draft bill, but at the same time asked the House of Representatives for support for these contours. I assume the Minister also likes to hear how this Chamber views it. Let me start positively: in his letter, the Minister states that everyone must have access to the right, that this is a condition for the proper functioning of the rule of law, that access to justice must also be guaranteed for those with less capacity, that there is therefore a system of subsidised legal aid and that this system is a prerequisite for people's trust in the rule of law. Rightly principles, which my group wholeheartedly agrees with. It is now up to us to assess how the outlines outlined relate to these important principles. According to the Minister, the current system is under pressure. The number of additions has increased sharply over the past 17 years. The Netherlands is at the top of European countries in terms of spending, problems are not solved more often and legal aid providers receive too little compensation. That is why, according to the Minister, the system needs a thorough review. My group does not share that conclusion and would like to oppose a number of observations. There is indeed a sharp increase in the number of additions up to 2006. Then there is a stable situation with between 420,000 and 450,000 additions per year. Where society has become increasingly complicated, it does not seem to us to be a cause for concern. The fact that our country is at the summit of Europe leads my group to the conclusion that we seem to have managed well here, and we can be proud of that. 80% of those seeking justice indicate that their problem has been resolved satisfactorily. 20% is not satisfied. My group concludes from this that subsidised legal aid makes an important contribution to solving problems. An even higher percentage would be nice. My group agrees with the Minister. It would therefore be interesting to know what is causing the dissatisfaction. In this context, we note that the evaluation of the Foundation's Consumer Disputes Committee shows that the degree of satisfaction is related to the outcome of the procedure: one is right or not. Does the Minister agree with us that this could be the case in the case of subsidised legal aid? Or does the Minister see other causes? Finally, the Minister points out that there is too little compensation for legal aid workers, and we very much agree with the Minister on this point. My group therefore does not share the Minister's conclusion that there is a need for a thorough review of the system. The biggest problem is the low pay that social lawyers receive for their work, and that problem is solved by making more money available. The Van der Meer Committee has confirmed that this amounts to 127 million. The Minister is not prepared to allocate these additional resources, because the government agreement agreed to solve the problems within the existing financial frameworks and therefore seeks the solution in reducing the number of additions. The financial framework is therefore leading, despite all the fine words. When does the Minister see adequate remuneration? To what level should the number of additions be reduced in order to make that compensation possible? On what basis does the Minister base his expectation that the proposed contours will also reach that level in the period up to 2024? The Minister's proposal also contains two elements which my group can support. Firstly, his proposal to strengthen the first line. The Minister rightly points out that a legal approach does not always solve the underlying problems. The evaluation of out-of-court dispute resolution also shows that reaching agreement itself leads to more favourable results. Thus, in general terms, encouraging the use of out-of-court dispute resolution, not only for those seeking legal aid who make use of the subsidised legal aid, can lead to fewer cases being brought before the courts. We also share the Minister's proposal on another point. In 60% of cases, the government appears in one form or another to be the party to which proceedings are brought. Legislation and procedures are often so complicated that it is not "to do" for citizens. I would remind you once again of the conclusions of the WRR on the capacity of a large group of citizens. My group would like to hear from the Minister what he and his colleagues, other governments and public authorities are going to do to actually take action here. My group has great difficulty with the so-called triage. If a seeker does want legal assistance, an independent body will assess his eligibility. It is not only a question of financial capacity, but also of usefulness and necessity. That is not acceptable to my group. This creates a division between citizens who themselves have the financial means to employ a lawyer and citizens who do not have it and who become dependent on the assessment of a gatekeeper. We believe that the Minister is in breach of his principle that access to justice should also be guaranteed for those who are less well-off. A negative decision may, moreover, be objected to. Should the person concerned be allowed to call for legal support, I ask the Minister? Or is there yet another assessment of usefulness and necessity? Mr. Chairman. My group also has great difficulty in calculating its own contribution. Now that's a fixed amount, linked to the amount of income. In the Minister's proposals, a judge who needs subsidised legal aid and receives a positive decision after triage must pay a percentage of the costs of legal aid, with all the uncertainty about the final amount. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion. My group has major problems with the contours of the new system. Access to justice for people on a small stock exchange is being hampered and the problem of over-features is not being solved. Moreover, nothing changes for the short term at all. The fees do not go up and the abandonment of the social lawyer is not stopped. I should like briefly to mention the issue of socially effective justice. In last year's policy debate, everything came along: the neighborhood judge, the judge of debt, the judge of divorce, the judge of peace, the House of Justice and mediation. It appeared that both the spokesmen in this Chamber and the minister consider it important to develop other and more accessible forms of problem-solving in addition to regular case law. The Minister then expressed his enthusiasm for the experiments that have taken place in different courts and for the concept of the neighbourhood judge to be rolled out across the country. The previous experiments could, according to the minister in the policy debate, be paid for by the judiciary itself, but the structural roll-out he called "another story," about which he wanted to talk to the Council for Justice. My group would like to hear from the Minister how far the roll-out has progressed and how this new form of justice will be financed. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In 2018 my hometown was Leeuwarden Cultural Capital of Europe. On the court's façade, a large canvas has been attached to it for a year, with the text: "Justice makes it possible for me to go to court." Freely translated: justice is one of the key pillars of our democratic society. In this debate, my group expressed its concern about the state of justice and access to justice. Unfortunately, the many letters we have received from the Minister in recent months have not removed our concerns and even increased them in some respects. Justice and access to justice are under heavy pressure and, unfortunately, we do not have enough vision and decisiveness for this minister to turn the tide. Nevertheless, we await the answers with great interest. Maybe we'll be a little more positive after that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u28	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I call Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. It is good that today we can continue the debate on the state of the rule of law of 22 May last year in third term. My group has appreciated the debate so far. The good thing about the debate was that on many issues raised by the CDA Group and other groups, the government was in the process of obtaining an opinion, launching a study, preparing a cabinet response, formulating a vision or thinking about a response to a failed operation. The disadvantage of the debate was that the substance of many of the issues put forward was not yet available. In this third period, my group hopes to be able to discuss these substantive directions, which have now been defined. I would like to put forward the common thread in the speech I made at the time. The system and logic of the government are often too central, rather than the focus on the citizen and the functioning of the law in practice. Too much remains to be done with a "cooled" approach to supporting institutions in the rule of law, rather than a coherent approach between them. Moreover, in shaping the infrastructure of the rule of law, considerations of cost savings and efficiency are often leading, rather than the importance of the rule of law and, above all, of solving citizens' problems. As far as my group is concerned, in practice, too, an important measure of assessment of the direction of the government has been decided on the subjects of this debate. My contribution to the debate has been built up along three lines. 1. Criminal justice. I am thinking here of the chain, especially the place of the NFI in it and the police. 2. The relationship between criminal law and administrative law. In this connection, I will briefly address the position of the local government, especially the mayor's. 3. The judicial organisation, with the focus on the aftermath of the KEI operation, the organisation of legal aid and the financing system of justice. Mr. Chairman. The reports that the NFI is unable to carry out the tasks, with the risk that the criminal chain will cease and that prosecution or conviction will be absent, have been and are a great concern for my group. The increased technical possibilities and legal possibilities such as large-scale DNA-related research also take up the available capacity. Fortunately, the Minister takes this seriously, but the published vision on this remains somewhat abstract. Can the Minister give some insight into the actual enlargement that involves the deployment of police labs? More important than that is the following. The Minister introduces a so-called forensic field of work, with a greater role for private or semi-private institutions in addition to the NFI and the police labs. The reason for the involvement of private organisations, see pages 7 and 8 of the vision "Philosophy" seems mainly pragmatic. However, there is no vision as to why a private organisation should be involved in a par excellence of the public environment. Involvement of private organisations will, as the vision also shows, create complications in terms of control: agreements, public sensitivity, preservation, quality assurance, communication, etc. In addition, the involvement of private organisations will also involve costs. Experiences with other sectors show time and again that hiring private parties ultimately does not save anything, but often increases costs. In particular, feedback to the police must be adequately guaranteed and maintained. Tracking and prosecuting is, of course, the state's core business. Does the Minister agree? Does he also agree that forensic research should remain in public hands? Can he make a commitment to my group on this? With regard to the text 'Ambition, priorities and objectives in the criminal justice chain', my group is mainly looking at the lead times. My group can endorse the direction in which we are thinking: not great and compelling innovations, but concrete steps forward, with the possibility of interim adjustment and that in terms of providing services to citizens. If this succeeds, it will contribute to the quality of the rule of law and the social legitimacy of criminal justice. However, I must say that the stated "ambition" is still generously general. After all, who can disagree with the improvement of performance along lines of 'chain cooperation and administrative ownership', 'improvement measures' and 'innovation'? I can remember from previous debates that it was not possible to follow things in the chain because different methods of counting and recording were used by different partners in the chain, and that there were also things in the chain that were untraceable and even lost. My question to the Minister is: has that problem been resolved? Neither were the IT systems of the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary coordinated either. Then it is understandable that the system as such is not working properly. My group's question is: who was responsible for this and has this problem been resolved? If so, how much did that cost and who paid for it? Is there any insight into other concrete factors that stand in the way of rapid lead times? How do they relate to the Minister's plans? I am particularly asking for this because the document also speaks of monitoring developments and of the annual evaluations. I'm joining the national police evaluation. It is well known that the formation of the national police did not have a favourable reputation. There are still problems. It was also completely unclear what the reorganisation resulted in. The evaluation of the national police has also received fundamental criticism. My group, like the criminologist Fijnaut, has suggested that an alternative evaluation should be carried out from the point of view of those involved. It should result, as I said last time, in an analysis of what has been done, what has been achieved, and what can now be done with the Police Act and what bottlenecks there are. The state of play now is that the Minister has proposed a dozen improvements on the basis of that evaluation report. My group's question is: are they also supported from the inside by the police organisation? Have the police themselves been given priorities, and if so, has the Minister made them his? My group appreciates when the Minister can address these questions in concrete terms. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the second part of my contribution: the relationship between criminal law and administrative law. That part is very short. Last year, the "threatened mayor" was named Dutchman of the Year 2018. It sounds very nice, but basically that's sad. My group wholeheartedly supports the administrative powers and measures to tackle major crime. However, it considers it crucial that the drivers in question do not continue to "dangle." The administrative approach should therefore also be accompanied by an adequate and effective criminal justice approach. My group's question is: how does the Minister facilitate that both traces, administratively and criminally, can go hand in hand? Then there are two important issues at the interface between administrative law and criminal law. That is the administrative fine and the OM decision, although the latter, in a strict sense, of course, belongs more to criminal law. There is still a lot to say about both, but unfortunately it is too much for my contribution today to go into now. My group hopes, however, that there will be another time when we will be able to discuss these two issues with those responsible. Mr. Chairman. The third part of my contribution concerns the judicial organisation. It is not often that the judicial organisation as such is in the news. But in recent months, and in fact the last year, it is the day when it is reported on the organisational and financial difficulties of the case-law. They were also discussed extensively in this Chamber in May last year. The Minister then held off the boat and referred for the solution essentially to the case law itself. My group was unhappy with that at the time. Now we see that justice is in fact in danger of falling slightly. The failure of the KEI operation, which cost not 7 million but between 150 and 220 million, without achieving the desired result, cannot of course be attributed solely to the case-law itself. In the first reaction, the Minister spoke of a "reset," as if all the problems would be solved at the push of a button. Our question was: where was the ministry at that time? Moreover, it is clear that the case-law cannot meet the costs itself. Cuts have been made in advance with a view to earning effects that have not been achieved at the end of the day. Now the judiciary has a structural deficit of EUR 50 million per year. This amount, even if it is relatively high, is relatively low, considering that it is possible to maintain a soothing legal infrastructure. This is just as important for the welfare development of a state as, for example, a good road network. Is the Minister prepared to reverse these cuts? Can the Minister, here and now, 'here and now', I really have to say that he is making a commitment that an amount of EUR 50 million, at least occasionally, but rather structuralally, will be released for the benefit of the judiciary, in the 2019-2020 budget? Since this is the third deadline for the debate, any motions must be tabled now. Other spokesmen have already mentioned this. That is why my group has tabled a motion for a resolution pending a commitment from the Minister. The President shall: Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Backer, Mr Knapen, Mr Diederik van Dijk and Mr Andriessen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we are all concerned about the proper functioning of the rule of law;]] [[Whereas an independent, well-functioning case law is essential for the proper functioning of the rule of law;]] [[Whereas there are long-standing concerns about the system and the extent of the financing of the case-law;]] [[Whereas a recent opinion to the Council on the case-law has shown that the problems are so structural that the organisation of the judiciary cannot solve them itself;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward proposals in the 2020 budget to resolve these problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-AS]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u30	Part of the structural deficit is therefore due to the fact that cuts have been made while they have not been achieved. For another part, the method of financing the judiciary is a debt to the structural deficit. It has been said before: the increased complexity of cases, through more complex legislation, contributes to the fact that the time that is being financed for dealing with specific cases has long since been inconsistent with the time actually spent on these matters, if they are to be handled carefully. In the previous period, my group, along with many who are at home in the world of justice, has advocated a revision of the financing system. Output funding should therefore be cancelled. The prediction at that time has now been fulfilled by last week's report, which examined the financing of justice. In my group's view, the solution lies in a fifty-fifty method of financing, whereby 50% of a lump sum is granted to the judiciary for the fixed charges, such as buildings, security, support staff, all necessary for the maintenance of justice, even if no case is yet dealt with, and 50% funding is made through an input system, as is currently the case with the Public Prosecutor. In any case, the funding system for the public prosecutor and the judiciary should be the same. There is also a structural deficit in the public prosecutor's office: the burn-outs also strike there in connection with earlier cuts applied in the past. The weakening of police, OM and judiciary is ultimately only in the interests of the underworld. It is essential to put a stop to this. With relatively little money, our group believes that this should be possible. Is the Minister prepared to review the funding structure in the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary? If so, at what time does the Minister intend to get this right? And then: is this funding calculated from the input? The Counter-Light Group already painted an image of the time that is now available for various types of business. Isn't that hard to offer serious justice? What is the Minister's position on the increased involvement of specialised lawyers as a judge or council substitute? How does the Minister intend to conduct the discussion on the banning of futile and hopeless cases? And also important: large-scale, costly, special projects should no longer be charged to the regular budget in the future. Can the Secretary of State agree to this? Mr. Chairman. I come to the governance of justice. Many aspects criticise the current governance model, see among others the NJB at the end of last year. For example, from science, the NVvR and the Counter-Light Group, it is stated that the current model is too top-down and that the minister has too much influence through appointments of directors. There is a call for more involvement and influence from the workplace on the board, precisely because of the knowledge and experience that is present there. I would like the Minister's response to this: is he prepared to enter into the discussion on the revision of the governance structure? A concern is also the accessibility, read: affordability, legal aid. In my group's view, this is not just a concern for the underprivileged and underprivileged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u31	Can I ask Mr Van Bijsterveld a question about the issue of structure and organisation, the governance as she calls it? Is there not also a fundamental legal problem there, which has also been warned in the Council's design of the case law? That the short lines to the Ministry will affect the ultimate independence of justice? This has been the subject of a very extensive debate in the past, including the establishment of the RO Act in 2002. Mr Ruers has also spoken about this. Gradually, it is not only a governance problem, but also a legal problem. Do you share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u32	Yeah, you could say that. I've flown it a little less in principle myself. Of course, there is actually too much influence from the Minister on the appointments of directors. Whatever you see, it seems from the organization in practice as if there is not much support for it. Of course, you can attach other qualifications to that, but I'm going to approach it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u33	I understand. I just wanted to make this point because, in Dutch constitutional law, we have actually informally regulated the independence of the judiciary. There's a lot of soft law. In that, I think it is relevant that we keep this issue on the agenda. I understand that you are not going to go into this now, but I would like to discuss this with you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u34	I see your point. I had stuck to legal aid and my last sentence was that it is not just a concern for the underprivileged and underprivileged, but for the category that is somewhat above it. For that category, effective access to legal aid is a very costly matter. For my group, it is important that it is not possible for one group, but suddenly it is going to be a completely different story for a group that is just above it. It's important to see it a little in proportion. My group is aware of the discussion on subsidised legal aid. My group would like to put something else to that effect, aimed at the long term: removing the separation between social and commercial law. This would mean that the big offices would also be doing "social" again, i.e. pro-Deo business. Of course, that saves a lot of money: interns can learn the profession and get acquainted with the social partners and the social partners have at least a good lawyer. At that time, the social lawyer was separated from the ordinary, commercial, offices. There is a lot to say about that; it certainly fit in with the time joint at the time. Things may be different now. Maybe it's good for both types of offices, social and commercial, not to keep them separate anymore. I admit that it is a bit of a long-term vision, because the Minister is now dealing with very different matters. Is the Minister prepared to study this idea further or, if necessary, to adopt it in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u35	You have now gone through your speaking time, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. You're gonna wrap it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u36	I'm definitely gonna finish! I was gonna say, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna finish. We are all concerned about the proper functioning of the rule of law. In fact, it is a constitutional duty! The detection, prosecution and assessment of criminal offences, the settlement of disputes between citizens and between citizens and government is the core business of the state. They form part of the infrastructure conditions under which a democratic rule of law can function. My group cannot stress it enough! It is not just a task of the people directly involved in the various institutions of the rule of law. My group hopes that, in this spirit, the ministers, the two leaders, will take up the answers to the questions and look forward to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u37	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I call Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u38	Thank you, Mr President. My group thanks the Minister for his second-term replies to this policy debate and the letter he sent on 9 July 2018. The reason for this third deadline is that during the policy debate of 22 May 2018 a large number of commitments were made, the Minister's acceptance of which led to new questions. The same applies to the Minister's reaction to the motion tabled by my group in the second term. In addition, there are still quite a few legal concerns. For example, the calm has not yet returned to the third column of the trias politician, the judiciary. From a financial point of view, the caselaw does not seem to be able to keep its head on its own and KEI has become a headache file. In the meantime, you will have noticed that the spokesmen have broken down into the subjects. In particular, my group will address the subject of digital transformation, the commitments made by the Minister in that context, and in particular the letter of 9 July 2018. On behalf of my group, I will also briefly address the issues of digitisation and the organisation of justice, as well as the financing of justice itself. I'll start with the subject of digital transformation. This subject affects the position of citizens at the heart of the rule of law. I'll explain. I have explained this in detail in the first period of this debate and I will explain it a little more. My group has wondered whether further standardisation would be necessary, asked the government for a vision of this and asked the government to consider whether and how, if necessary in an international context, the resulting actions could be taken. In the first term, my group discussed issues such as data misuse, data manipulation and their influence on our rule of law. Democracy and the rule of law must have equal opportunities for information and equal access to information. Regulation of the use of personal data has already been initiated in Europe with the GDPR. At the heart of the matter is that citizens themselves should be able to control their own data and thus their own lives. However, regulation of the provision of information so as to ensure equal opportunities for information and access to information is not so much in the eyes of the European legislator. And then I actually put it in a very old-fashioned way. What actually happens goes beyond opportunities and access to information. Because what is actually happening is also referred to as "perception control." This term means the ability to control what others think and want and how they will behave. This is done with the help of thought and behavioral-controlled algorithms. The technology in question monitors us, collects data about us, stores them and uses them. In this context, the recent enforcement action of the German Bundeskartellamt last Thursday 6 February is remarkable. This German competition authority has imposed restrictions on Facebook when collecting data from users. Facebook combines this data with its own data and has a dominant market position with the huge data collection that it creates. The German competition authority considers that Facebook exploits its dominant market position by also collecting and combining data from users outside its own platform. The damage that users suffer is not so much financial in nature, but it is in the fact that they do not have sufficient control over their own data flows. Fines that may amount to up to 10% of the annual turnover are at risk if the company fails to comply with the ruling when it is final, says the authority. Last year, Facebook converted nearly 50 billion euros. It is noteworthy, therefore, that I quote this statement, at least this enforcement action, namely that data protection law and competition law come together here, and data protection law belongs to the portfolio of the Minister for Legal Protection. Before I comment on the Minister's letter of 9 July 2018 a single word on technology and the rule of law. Jamie Susskind argues in his recent book, entitled Future Politics: Living Together in a World Transformed by Tech, that technology makes it possible to control what everyone thinks and desires. Nothing new under the sun, we've known that for years. I just referred to that by the term perception control. Susskind states that we are being guided and controlled by digital systems that we have less and less comprehension of, but at the same time we have not yet struck a picket pole for the extent to which and the conditions under which we consider this desirable. If that is permanently absent, Susskind argues, the big tech companies will determine the future of democracy and the rule of law. How does the Minister view this? How do we resist perception control? Who controls the companies that make this possible? How do we enforce openness, responsibility and restraint? I'd like a response from the government to these questions. Susskind notes with my group in the first place that a concentration of power by some large tech companies has taken the form of a quasi-monopoly. How does the government feel about that? In my group's view, full state control of technological developments is undesirable and appears to be an even greater threat to the rule of law. Look at China, where the government is working on a social credit code for all citizens, a social behavior assessment system. My group expressly believes, for the record, that digital technology can mean a lot to society and has already meant a lot and that the rule of law and technology can definitely go together, but that it does not happen automatically. At the very least, we need to ask whether further regulation is necessary in order to maintain the core values of our rule of law. How does the Minister view this? How does the Minister look at the desirability of companies, including start-ups...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u39	I listen with great interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u40	Can we stop the counter? I'm sorry, but if I don't, I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u41	It was not my intention to achieve that, because I am listening with great interest to what you are saying. I'm actually curious about jurisdiction. On what scale do you intend to address this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u42	On an international scale. This is certainly not on a Dutch scale. We should at least look at this at European level, but we should do so internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u44	Thank you. Time's ticking again. I'll get on with it. What is the Minister's view of the desirability of allowing companies, including start-ups, to become a genuine competitor of the nine major non-European tech companies? My group realizes that it is now moving into an area where the Minister for Legal Protection will indicate that this is one of the files of his fellow Minister of EZK. He may be able to work together with the Minister of EZK in this area, because this is where digitalisation, market forces and the rule of law come together. Here, the issue becomes relevant as to whether and how much space is needed for innovation in Europe to counter the nine world players, who are much less or very little interested in the European values of the rule of law, our rule of law or law. How does the Minister for Legal Protection view this? How does he judge this issue? Is he prepared to explore this issue further together with the Minister of EZK? Mr. Chairman. I go back to the desirability of normalizing the process of digital transformation. I have just given an example of the German competition authority, which, with its enforcement actions, whose legal basis lies more in the field of justice than in the field of economic affairs, is taking a clear step towards standardisation. What does the Minister intend to do? Does he intend to seek cooperation with the Minister of EZK in this area? I'd like a response. In this connection, I should like to return to the motion tabled by my group in the second term. The Minister has promised that with a letter... Sorry. In reply to the motion, the Minister said that he would come forward with a letter containing an overview of all the investigations that are under way. The motion calls on the government to investigate the desirability of further standardisation of the digital transformation. In the letter of 9 July, the Minister gave an overview of current routes at national and European level. That really is an impressive overview. What my group has not yet been able to discover is an overarching view of the government on the desirability of further standardisation on the process of digital transformation. Nor has it yet responded to the request to examine how the actions resulting from the investigations can be taken in an international context. In other words, my group lacks the coherence between the surveys included in the survey and, in particular, the government's vision: is there a need for further standardisation, and if so, how do we tackle this? My group would like to ask a few more questions in response to the survey given by the Minister in his letter, the survey of investigations. First, the Minister refers to the Dutch digitisation strategy. In this strategy, the government is pursuing two main objectives: to exploit the social and economic opportunities of digitalisation and to strengthen its foundations. This includes working on practical frameworks and solutions to the fundamental questions raised by digital transformation in the field of fundamental rights and ethics, for example on autonomy, privacy and equal treatment. Shouldn't this be a step in the right direction? What are these fundamental questions? What fundamental questions did the Minister take as his starting point? What answers does the government have in mind to these fundamental questions? Only when these answers are known can you provide practical frameworks and solutions. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister is moving too quickly towards practical frameworks. There should be a step ahead of that. A second comment following the survey of investigations concerns the analysis carried out to keep markets in which digital platforms are active competitive. That will certainly be a useful analysis. But what my group was about is that there is room for a European digital platform that can compete with that of Microsoft, Google or Tencent or a platform that at least respects our European rule of law. How does the Minister view this? This also applies to the dependency of entrepreneurs who offer their services or products on platforms of these companies. The VVD strongly supports the cabinet's commitment to a fair and transparent relationship, but this does not yet provide European players or players with at least a counterweight. Thirdly, as I said, my group lacks the coherence between the investigations. It is also of the opinion that the ongoing investigations are all focused on Dutch or European society and markets. My group lacks the prospect of a global market, the position of European players in it and the desirability of creating space for a European digital platform. Moreover, my group can well imagine that it is too early to give that overarching view of the desirability of stricter standards, but does the Minister intend to develop such a vision in the foreseeable future? If so, will the Minister undertake to forward that overarching vision to the Chamber within six months of the completion of those investigations? I'd like a response from the Minister. I would like to make a few comments on the case-law and more specifically its financial position and the digitisation of the case-law as well as access to justice. I shall be very brief here, because other spokesmen have already said a lot to me about this. I'm starting to digitize justice. KEI would initially have finished with 7 million euros. More than 200 million have been spent and there is still no picture of the delivery of a well-functioning ICT infrastructure. The Boston Consulting Group carried out a review of the financial deficit. The investigation shows that the case law is not capable of becoming financially sound on its own. This is a worrying development. Other spokesmen have already said a few things about this. Apart from the general question of what measures the government intends to take to get the budget back in order, the only question I would like to add is whether the government will continue to rely on an output-funded budget. Then I have a single question about the future of KEI, which is now called 'digitalisation of civil law and administrative law'. My group has taken note of the quickscan Review basic plan, carried out by TRConsult. That agency has a few serious comments to make. This raises the question of what guarantees that everything that is announced will now be achieved in an organisation that is not unobtrusive in this respect. It also considers the approach to be conceptually good, but at the front not yet sufficiently developed in frameworks, procedures and results. Has the basic plan been transformed into a more detailed start-up plan and has a careful preparation phase been organised? Is there going to be a steering committee for the whole or one per business flow? And who directs the implementation groups to the courts? I know from my practice, in which I have to deal with failed or failed ICT projects, that clarity in direction and governance can make a lot of difference for the success or failure of digitalisation. What gives the Minister confidence that KEI's reset is viable? What leads, what measures, do the Minister have to offer this confidence? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group looks forward with interest to the Government's response, with the answers to the questions raised in particular as a result of its letter of 9 June in connection with the motion tabled earlier by my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I call Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. I have followed with great interest what my colleagues have put forward in this regard. I can join most of them heartily. I will bring up a few other details on this matter later. Nine months ago, in the context of this debate on the state of the rule of law, I felt that I sufficiently demonstrated that the balance within the trias politicians was seriously disturbed and that this disruption was caused, in particular, by the far-reaching domination of the legislative power over the judiciary. In the past period, in addition to a number of factors mentioned by previous speakers, three new important factors have emerged in the field of law and justice, namely the failure of KEI, the remarkable turnout of the National Counter-Light Group and the recent BCG report. In order to be able to judge that current situation with regard to the judiciary properly on its merits, I think it is necessary to briefly consider its history over the last 20 years. I start with the bill that was drafted in the late 1990s, which led to the Law RO of 2002. In this context, I pointed out that the Supreme Court was already very critical of the legislative proposal in 1999. The Supreme Court pointed out, inter alia, that the mere fact that the judiciary is financed from public funds does not justify the granting to the Minister of Justice, in the context of the modernisation operation, of powers enabling him to verify that these funds are used effectively. Following the 2002 law amendment, a further major change took place in 2012 through the Judicial Card Review Act, the HGK. As some of us may remember, in the debate of this Chamber on 3 July 2012 with the then Minister of Justice, Mr Opstelten, a number of parties stressed the risk that the Minister could have too much influence on the judiciary. For example, the spokesperson of the VVD group remarked at the time: "When I look at the proposed new structure, I see a structure that reminds me more of a large company than of an organisation like an independent judiciary. It is worrying because the question can be asked as to how far justice is really still to the full extent the independent judiciary of the trias politician when justice is kept so strongly 'in the way' through demands of management and the new governance model. Furthermore, the spokesperson pointed out that the Council was intended to facilitate the case-law and that the Council had a close relationship with the Minister. For this reason, she stressed that the Minister should not use the Board for policies that could affect the independence of the judiciary. Minister Opstelten replied that the work of the judge calls for independent judgment and that management interests, such as production standards, will not prejudice that. Mr. Chairman. Seven years later, we have to note that the concern of the VVD Group and other groups was justified at the time. The judiciary is no longer an equal part of the trias politician. It is overwhelmed by the legislator and the Minister of Justice, who has used the Council's approach to justice, but also the inattentiveness of politics and the resignation of the judiciary itself. I come to the phenomenon of the Counter-Light Group. An important new development of the last year is the emergence of the national Counter-Light Group. A number of judges from different courts and courts are represented. This group has set out its view on the current position of the judiciary in the recent vision of the future nationwide Counter-Light, a vision based on the national survey of Counter-Light among all judges and counsellors. The survey raised the question of how judges felt about the Council's way of resolving the caselaw and the Minister's approach to the KEI debacle. More than half of all judges and counsel responded to the survey. The first concern that was put to the judges was the idea of giving more power to the Council in the case-law, i.e. a stronger top-down control than we already have. The second concern was the plan to transfer the financial consequences of KEI to the budget of the courts, from which the case-law is to be paid. Both concerns were shared by an overwhelming majority of 92% and 97% of respondents. So that was about the concerns, not the solutions. The results of the survey and the ownership of the respondents were used for the problem analysis of the Counter-Lighting Group. According to the group, this input is diverse, but for the most part it is closely in line with the letter recently sent by the professional organisation for judges and prosecutors, the NVvR, to the Minister for Justice and the Court of Justice. The letter referred to the structural overload of judicial officials and the problematic financing structure. It also stressed the need to improve the governance model, with substantive authority, national responsibilities and innovation of justice being basic values. The main cause of these problems, according to the vision of the future, lies in the existing financing of outputs; others have already talked about this. This funding puts factors beyond the power of justice on the budget and encourages drivers to (continue) put the emphasis on quantity rather than quality. According to the Counter-Light Group, the second source of problems lies in the existing "remote governance" model and the lack of connection between professionals and directors in the justice system. Furthermore, the view is that the judges have major problems with the financing of output; I said that. This method of financing contributes to the gap between directors in the justice system and professionals. That gap is not new, according to the view of the judges. The Cohen Visitation Commission has also drawn attention to this distance. This gap is also compounded by the great influence of the Minister on the appointment of the members of the Council for the purpose of the case-law and the influence of the Council on the appointment of judges. The Counter-Light Vision then concludes that the judicial organisation is controlled by "the said stranglehold" on the basis of a wrong, i.e. essentially quantitative starting point. But the Counter-Light Group also formulates sensible and interesting solutions. The first concerns funding based on professional standards. The group has explicitly explained this in that view. I am referring briefly to that. The second direction of solution consists of a separate budget for innovation, reorganisation and digitisation projects, such as KEI and HGK. The third direction of solution is the governance model, which aims to ensure that knowledge and experience of the workplace also form the basis for administrative decisions and policies. In the fourth proposal, the Counter-Light Group advocates greater influence of courts on the appointment of judges. The Court of Justice should have an informative, facilitating and national decision-making role, but not a decisive one. The final conclusion of the Counter-Light Vision is, in my opinion, of some relevance. I quote from that. "Finally, judges are the embodiment of the third state power, they are the professionals in the judicial organization. Through commitment and responsibility, they provide their experiences and analyses to make a constructive contribution to improvement. Their contribution is essential and deserves to be taken seriously." Well, I'd say you're aware of that. I would, of course, like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of these solutions. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second aspect that I would like to highlight, namely finance. Since the 2002 legislative amendment, which I mentioned, the demand for finance for the judiciary has played a crucial role. The fact that finance plays such an important role has to do with, on the one hand, the question of how much money is needed by justice in reasonable terms and, on the other hand, the risk that the legislator/government, through "the cords of the stock exchange," will, you know, interfere with that fine term of the Supreme Court, but also with production requirements, output financing, management rules and case rules, with the substance of the third state power, the judiciary. This destroys one of the most important fundamental principles of our parliamentary democracy, namely the independent judiciary. In answering that difficult question, of course, it is mainly about whether the judiciary can claim its own budget. What does not have its own budget in practice for the judiciary, but also for the citizens, have been experienced over the past decades. Time and time again the budget of the judiciary was reduced, reduced and saddled with improper tasks and costs; we have often discussed it here. This has put considerable pressure on the quality of justice in several ways. I would point out, for example, that cuts and under-budgets have led to under-employment, delays and structural overtime. Especially that structural overtime in the judiciary is huge. In my view, therefore, it is only reasonable, and also sensible, to give the judiciary its own budget. Does the Minister share that opinion and, if not, why not? The second important aspect of finance, partly related to the first, concerns the constitutional position of the judiciary within the trias. In my opinion, the independence granted to the judiciary should not be undermined under the heading of 'budget reasons'. Then a border is crossed. The SP therefore advocates giving the judiciary, referring to part of the judiciary, which is the courts and courts, the same budgetary position as the Supreme Court. It is also part of the judiciary, although the Supreme Court has a separate position: the Supreme Court is a High College of State. Can the Minister explain why this elegant solution is not being chosen? Mr. Chairman. I come to my third subject, namely what is referred to in one of the articles as 'the power of the judge'. In his recent book Bigger thinking, doing smaller, Herman Tjeenk Willink states that administrative thinking is the big problem of the judiciary. In support of that statement, he drew attention to the functioning of the Council for Justice, the conduct of business within the judiciary and the far-reaching influence of the Minister on the Council for Justice. According to Tjeenk Willink, the solution to this problem of the administration of the judiciary lies with the judges themselves. They themselves must provide the necessary counterweight, reflect on their functions and choose their position. Together they form the independent judiciary. I think that is a very important point. The judiciary is an independent part of the trias politicians, and that is primarily the responsibility of the judges themselves. I think that the aforementioned vision of the Counter-Light Group shows that the message of Tjeenk Willink has not been addressed to deaf ears, and that is, I think, a hopeful development. Something is changing within the judiciary. After the Leeuwarder manifesto and the previous Utrecht Counter-Light Survey, I think this Future vision is a big step in the right direction. In addition, in its letter to the Minister of 6 February, the NVvR has recently taken a firmer stance than before against the way in which the case law is governed. The NVvR notes a growing dissatisfaction with the control model, which is characterized by the term "remote management." According to the NVvR, this method has increased the gap between the judges and their directors, while the administrative strength has not increased. "We expect this model to be abandoned and that the presidents and their colleagues in the administration of the courts should be brought closer to everyday practice." So it says: 'We expect this model to be released'. That's a big deal. "The same applies" according to the NVvR "to the directors of the Court of Justice." The final passage of this letter, in which the NVvR states that it is currently preparing an opinion to the directors of the case-law, is also noteworthy. To this end, the interest organisation of the judiciary clearly adds that it considers that it is primarily up to the judicial authority to organise itself properly. "Of course," according to the NVvR, "the legislator can play a role in this, but in view of the necessary balance between the state powers, that is not the right way forward now" as far as the NVvR is concerned. Mr. Chairman. I note that the National Counter-Lighting Group and the NVvR have similar views in this area and that these views do not reflect the current policy of the Minister and the Council of Ministers for Justice. How's the Minister looking at this? There is a clear contradiction here between the judges on the one hand and the ministers on the other. In the fifth chapter of his book, titled Without independent judges no democracy, Tjeenk Willink makes some suggestions for further steps. He noted that there was every reason to consider what the Council's institution for justice, the introduction of integrated management, the wide scope for intervention of the Minister and all reorganisations and projects had actually contributed to the quality of the case law. He also felt that it was necessary to examine the impact on citizens' access, especially the most vulnerable, to the law, which disputes have now been removed from the courts and what all this has cost. Finally, he asked why, for example, the First Chamber did not take the initiative. That would be obvious, in his view, because the First Chamber, where the rule of law is concerned, has a reputation to uphold. Mr. Chairman. This naturally brings me to the final part of my contribution: the motion for a resolution on Parliamentary document No. 34775-VI, letter U. In the operative part of the motion, the government is asked to fundamentally review the RO 2002 Act in order to ensure a balanced position of the judiciary within the trias politicians. On the basis of the arguments put forward by me in the first and second periods, I think I can say that there are more than sufficient grounds for the examination requested. I have also heard and found clear indications in the contributions made by previous speakers in this direction. I can only conclude that the urgent position of the judiciary in many areas and the widespread feeling within the judiciary that fundamental changes are urgently needed are additional arguments in support of the motion. I therefore fully support my motion on behalf of the co-signatories and hope that the other groups in this House will share that view. I look forward to the reactions of the Minister and the other groups in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-9.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting until 5.20 p.m. Then we will continue the meeting with the examination of the Register of Educational Participants Act.
