ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the debate on financial compensation for Q-fever patients. I would like to welcome the Minister for Medical Care in our midst. Members have asked me to welcome you all to the gallery on their behalf. This is a debate that is also very much about you. We appreciate you coming. For many it will have been a spicy journey; that is what the members realize. They all welcome you. We have several speakers in this debate. The order of business has been messed up because there is another debate at the same time. So there is a Member who may be gone for a while and hopefully can come back, but further on, all the undivided attention is in this debate. The debate has actually been requested by two Members, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Gerven. They have divided it so that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen will speak first. Then 50PLUS will take the floor, because Mr Van Gerven has given up his place to give room for another debate. So that's the order. We also agreed with each other that there are three interruptions. We always do it in two with a final word. From the side of the Chamber, I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen of the Party for Animals for her contribution, for which four minutes are reserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u2	Thank you, Mr President. For more than ten years, Q fever slachotffers have had to wait for a financial settlement. And that while, according to very cautious estimates, at least 45,000 people have been infected by the Radboud UMC in the Netherlands and several thousands of people have become ill. Patients are still joining and 97 Q-fever patients have died. Mr. Chairman. In 2012, the National Ombudsman accused the government of improper administration. Tourists from the United States and Brazil were warned by their governments to avoid Brabant and Limburg because of the risk of infection of Q fever. Meanwhile, neighbors of the affected companies in the Netherlands were left completely in the dark. The Party for Animals, preceded by dozens of parliamentary questions, demanded a parliamentary survey in 2013. Unfortunately, our request was not supported by a majority of this Chamber. I ask the Minister: has the government learned from the Q-fever epidemic? Mr. Chairman. 60,000 pregnant goats were killed preventively at the time of the epidemic. Instead of defending the interests of humans and animals as the government could have done, for example, by drastically reducing the goat sector and immediately setting up a national moratorium on the construction and expansion of goat stables, the goat sector was compensated for EUR 60 million. 60 million! And the number of goats in the Netherlands has increased by almost 50% over the last five years to 600,000. Goats are also being kept more and more intensive. Farmers build new stables and expand. Goat milk is big business. The Netherlands is the most densely stocked country in the world. And it's also a ticking time bomb. Last year there were 27 companies that didn't vaccinate their goats in time. Moreover, the vaccination requirement does not apply to holdings with less than 50 goats. These companies will not be disclosed to the Dutch citizen. There were 17 new infections of Q fever. In addition, research by RIVM shows that people in the vicinity of goat stables are more likely to develop pneumonia. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the Minister's financial gesture. Not only has the government not protected its citizens enough, it also refuses to make excuses and come up with decent compensation. A lot of Q-fever victims can't work anymore. Moreover, victims who have been infected after 2011 are not even eligible for the scheme, such as the youngest victim Emma, a seven-year-old girl. How can it be that the government facilitates explosive growth in the goat sector and that victims of the disease are excluded from the scheme? Can the Minister explain that? Mr. Chairman. Destroying animal diseases will not disappear by themselves, but in the future they will be more frequent and careless when we do nothing about the sick system from which they arise. In intensive livestock farming there are far too many animals: an ideal environment for the mutation and spread of serious diseases. That is the real lesson we should and could draw from this drama of Q fever. Stop keeping thousands of animals at once and shrink into the goat sector. Mr. Chairman. We are here today because the victims of Q-fever deserve what should be quite natural: justice and satisfaction. It is high time that the government made real, real excuses to the victims, offered them full compensation and compensation and gave way to truly independent research. It's about time. For many it is, sadly, far too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you. As the second speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Patients and next of kin think it's time for justice and recognition. After all, they've been fighting for this for years. They have never received recognition of the failure of the government in the persons of Minister Klink and Minister Verburg. I should have. And now €15,000. That is the amount that Q-fever patients and government survivors receive as " gesture of recognition and compassion," as the minister calls it. Looking at the definition of "recognition" is one of the meanings: the fact that something is seen and admitted. What significance does the Minister have for the word recognition? €15,000 for people with a debilitating disease who have been controlling them for years. €15,000 for people who are no longer able to earn their own bread because of their illness and will never be able to do so again. And we're not even talking about people who've lost a neighbor. The stories are legion. For example, there is the 51-year-old Alex van den Akker, an invalid teacher from Rosmalen who does his story in the newspaper. Three to four hours a day he can function normally. He's always tired and always in pain. He lost his job, lost a ton of income and had to incur a lot of extra costs due to his limitations. And the story of Sharon of the Boogard, 33 years old. On good days, it feels like she has the flu. On bad days, she's so sick and exhausted she can't get out of bed. 33 years, you've got a whole life ahead of you. Does the Minister really think that this amount will satisfy patients and that they feel taken seriously? 50PLUS can't imagine. I'd like a response. Of course, the suffering of patients and relatives cannot be expressed in money. But this amount, as my colleague has just said, is very low on what patients and relatives have been through, especially in view of what the goat farmers have been compensated for: EUR 60 million. Patients have postponed the treatment of their appeal pending this arrangement. 50PLUS is pleased to hear that this will now continue. We therefore hope for a different outcome than in the previous trial. And why wait for the appeal? The National Ombudsman concluded that the government failed and acted too late. The Committee of Inquiry was also critical of the action of the government. However, the previous minister was not prepared to take responsibility. Is this Minister prepared to take responsibility for real compensation? I'd like a response. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the letters in this debate. We would like the Minister's guarantee that people who receive compensation or compensation do not have to worry about the care allowance, the rent allowance or the child-related budget. Can the Minister guarantee that this concession will continue to come? In the letter of 24 September, the Minister writes that conversations with patients show that the chain cooperation around Q-fever patients is very important to address the problems that patients experience in an integral and unambiguous way. In patients with a more complex and/or domain-wide demand for care and support, this unambiguous approach is still not going well. The Minister calls it a focus, but what is he going to do in concrete terms to solve this problem now? Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues for allowing me to speak earlier so that I can go to my next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u6	Mr. Chairman. It has been almost fifteen years since the first Q fever outbreaks occurred, followed by an unprecedented national Q fever epidemic. By now we are 50,000 infections, 4,000 sick, 1,500 chronically ill and 97 dead. A great deal of suffering and damage for the people involved. In October last year I was at the Hofbar, where two Q-fever patients told their story: job loss, company loss, no income, overtired, broken relationships and ignorance about the future. All drama since the contagion! And the Minister is now giving €15,000 as a gesture to recognise the great consequences that patients and relatives have experienced. However, the Cabinet does not recognise liability. That is unfair and unfair, because it is clear that the farmers' financial interests, represented by the CDA ministers Verburg and Klink, went above health interests, with all the catastrophic consequences. How naive is it that the perpetrators, the farmers, have received 60 million damages, but that the Q-fever patients have to deal with this tip? Banks and farmers are saved, without blinking eyes, but the victims are dismissed. Well, not even all the victims are eligible for the amount at all. Only those infected between 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2011 could submit an application. I think that is very unfair and I would also like to put it to the Minister. People who are infected sooner or later, they really do not suffer any less. On financial compensation, I would like to make the following proposal to the Minister. First of all, the financial compensation must be substantially increased and doubled to €30,000 per person, including a hardness clause for those who have suffered disproportionate damage. That group, which has suffered disproportionate damage, should be eligible for customisation. My proposal is to set up an independent committee of experts to look at that hardness clause. That committee must assess that group and come forward with a fair proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u7	My question to Mr Van Gerven is: why €30,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u8	That doubling of the amount is indeed only a sum, but that is what I feel is alive at Q-uestion, the organisation that represents the patients. That organization says: if we did such an amount, a lot of people would say "it can't alleviate and remove all suffering, but it still caters to how we experience it." A lot of people could close the file, so to speak. That is why I want to propose this €30,000 as generic compensation for all victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u9	So I understand that for the SP it's actually just an amount that sounds good for the stage? A double, that sounds good, but it's not based on anything. Because the damage that people suffer is calculated at €22,000 per year. Then you won't be there for a long time with €30,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u10	Mrs. Agema didn't listen very well. That amount of €30,000 I measured at Q-uestion, in conversations with them, and they said: of course that doesn't compensate for everything. Then you should look at all situations individually and add up the material loss and the health loss. Everyone would then have to follow an individual court procedure, but that is not a way of success. The SP doesn't argue for that either. That is why we say: make a generic gesture and double that amount! And let a committee of experts look at the group of people who have suffered enormous damage, also in the sense that they have lost their business and so on. Let that committee look at ways of doing something for that group, and do not continue along the way of those procedures, because I feel that it is causing a great deal of damage, even though it is still the question of whether it is going to produce any results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u11	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u12	It is clear: for the SP a doubling is something that sounds good, like a soundbite in the newspaper, but it's not based on anything, let alone covering the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u13	I hope that the PVV will support the proposals that the SP will put forward in this area, because they respond to what many people who have Q fever experience. Those who say: the amount of 15,000... This is also due to the commitment from society that the government had to do something; through the debates in the Chamber, through all the questions that have been asked, through all the efforts. Otherwise, that amount wouldn't have been there either. But we do not think that is enough and we say: double that amount, then it will at least meet to some extent what people experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u14	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u15	The second proposal I would like to make is that the group should be extended to be eligible for financial compensation. In short, all victims to date must be eligible for compensation. I would therefore ask the Minister to reopen the application procedure, to drop the category from 2007 to 2011 and, for example, to rely on all victims from 2005, the beginning of the drama. I hope for a commitment from the Minister on that point too, otherwise I will come forward with motions in second place. The government must finally repay this debt of honor. Then there's another point, children and Q fever. There is also a great deal of suffering for a number of young people and children, and very little scientific knowledge is available about this. I would ask the Minister to clarify the state of play regarding the investigation. What was the content of the investigation? Which budgets are available? What's the budget? There is now a crowdfunding action on the part of parents, but I also think that the government has a role to play in this, especially in view of the past. Think of Michelle from Houten with her heart problems, Wessel Jurgens from Oss, Lianne Steenbergen and Rianne Kouwenberg and Emma: these are all children and young people who rely on the government, who rely on the minister. I would like to say to the Minister: do not leave these young people in the cold! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u16	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Raemakers of D66. He spoke instead of Mr De Groot, who was initially on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u17	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that we are discussing the serious consequences of the Q-fever epidemic here today. That horrible outbreak hit a lot of people. At least 95 people have died. Family members and friends must miss their loved ones daily. Many hundreds, thousands of people have been affected and permanently invalidated by chronic Q fever or Q-fever fatigue syndrome. As a gesture of recognition for the situation these people are in, a concession of €15,000 has been made available. Of course, this amount is in no way proportional to the misery that Q-fever sufferers have to deal with. We must recognise this suffering as a society and as a political one. In this light, I find it difficult that the deadline for this scheme only covers the Q-fever infections from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2011. What if someone got infected before 2007 or after 2011? Are any of these cases known to the Minister? If so, what does he do with it? Why is there a deadline at all? Because in the coming years, too, people will become ill. They had Q fever at the time, but only noticed that in the coming years. Think of children in particular; it has already been mentioned. The application period ran until 31 January 2019, but some children and adults will only notice it in the coming years. Can the Minister extend the regime in such a way that we can continue to give people recognition in the future? Mr. Chairman. We are not yet able to cure the victims of Q fever. What we can and must do is give them hope and perspective by continuing research into Q fever. Research is the only chance we have of helping patients today and preventing Q fever in the future. I would again like to draw particular attention to the position of children with Q fever. Thanks to an initiative in the Provincial States of Brabant, special attention will be paid to the position of children in the studies. Can the Minister make every effort to ensure that all research into adults and children is maximum encouraged by the Ministry? Can he also ensure that children as well as adults who are still sick in the coming years are monitored and monitored very closely so that we can give them the most appropriate care? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to my last point: the UWV. Many patients are no longer able to work because of the symptoms. That's bad enough. In this case, patients are dependent on a benefit which is also determined on the advice of an UWV examiner. For this, there would also be a specific training of medical examiners. However, I am getting signals that Q-fever patients are still seen by medical examiners who do not know, recognise and recognise the complaints sufficiently. If a patient is reasonably involved during the examination interview, then an untrained medical examiner may have the impression that the complaints are not so bad. The medical examiner does not see that the patient is completely burnt up after the test at home. As a result, the degree of fitness to work can be wrongly overestimated. I therefore call for the UWV to have a kind of automatic coupling that will always allow Q-fever patients to be seen by an examiner who has sufficient specific knowledge of Q-fever. Can the Minister take care of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u18	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about whether we can bring compassion, decency and solidarity to the victims of Q-fever. This debate is about recognition and satisfaction for all those who have become ill, have serious restrictions and suffer daily from the consequences, and for the families of the people who have died. Mr. Chairman. No one wanted this, but still lives have been destroyed. Everyone sees and feels injustice. Everyone sees the suffering. Everyone knows that there is considerable material and intangible damage. No one is formally liable, the judge has ruled that. But does that mean that the consequences should come to the account and the risk of the victims? The Labour Party's answer is no. Is the concession sufficient? The Labour Party's answer is no. In many cases it is not in proportion to the suffering, to the damage, to the loss of income, to the loss of life's joy. Mr President, the question is this: should the victims take the damage at their own expense and risk? The Labour Party's answer is no. If everyone asks themselves that question and answers it with no, then the question is who should be responsible for the damage. Should that question be answered by the results of legal hair-clubbing, or should it simply be done justice to the suffering and suffering and damage that people have suffered? Should legal hair clippers be leading, or should good decency, compassion and solidarity be the guiding principle? The core task of a government is to protect the body and good of the people, even in the most liberal night watchman's state. Mr President, we have all failed as a society. Acting with today's science was not proportionate and was not adequate. The question for the Labour Party is then, if that is the case and with the knowledge of today, whether we should not go and see if we can find a measure of compensation for the damage in full. To my taste, it should. We have guidelines for determining injury. Shouldn't individual customization be included? Is the Minister prepared to have this looked at independently and expertly? This would also be in line with the Ombudsman's ruling. It stated that the financial compensation for specific situations characterised by hardness of the consequences for the individual affected should be the measure. The Labour Party is heading for such a kind of redress, such a type of compensation based on the standards that apply to damage to workers. If the Minister is prepared to do so, my question is. Mr President, I come to the end of my speech. We must not look away from the suffering that has been done to people, from the damage that should not come at their expense and risk. There are perhaps ten legal reasons not to compensate for the actual damage, but there are also some very good reasons for doing so. I think that the collective should stand here in front of the affected individuals and that we should do justice to the people through collective means. We cannot remove suffering and suffering, we cannot remove the limitations, but we can compensate for that. My appeal to the Minister is whether he is prepared to do so generously, but in a way that is objective. And so not by arbitrary amounts, but by independent, authoritative and expert determination. I'll close with that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u20	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Twelve years. Twelve years between the outbreak of the Q-fever epidemic and this debate on its financial handling for those affected. That fact alone, the twelve long years for the people whose lives have so profoundly affected this outbreak and sometimes even destroyed it, is something to go over deeply. We can't deal with affected citizens like this. We must do everything we can to prevent this happening in the future. Mr. Chairman. The enormous tragic consequences of the Q fever that broke out in 2007 are well known. About 50,000 people were infected and 97 people have already died of Q fever. The Minister has informed us that every victim of the Q-fever epidemic can now count on a €15,000 concession. My group, too, wants to see a financial compensation for those who have become demonstrably ill with Q fever. Only GroenLinks is not yet reassured about the settlement. People are rightly not satisfied yet. Something like this keeps coming. There are still many Q-fever victims who don't feel heard. They have sometimes paid with the quality of their lives for the consequences of, in their view, negligence on the part of livestock farmers and inadequate government action. From these patients there is therefore a great need for a committee of inquiry that not only looks at the action of the ministries, but also examines what has been and has not gone well in tackling the Q-fever epidemic in society. Does the Minister also see this need in these patients? Is he prepared to set up a committee for this, so that such social uncertainty and unrest can be avoided in the future? Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the Minister to have an eye for young people with Q fever or Q fever fatigue syndrome. Let's say you're 17 and you have Q fever or Q fever fatigue syndrome. You don't know if you'll ever be able to work in full pay again. You are plagued by tiredness, chronic pain and social constraints. Your peers don't always understand this. It seems terrible to me to be in that situation, especially at that age. The Minister talks with some of these young people, I understand. Is the Minister willing to take the time for their stories? How is he going to give these young people the recognition they're asking for? Is he also willing to discuss practical and financial matters with them? Some of them became ill after 2011. It has already been discussed by my colleagues: there would be no reason for them to receive this financial compensation. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with them as well? Is he still talking to adults? For they, too, need recognition. Their lives have also been destroyed. Many of them are no longer able to work. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We are talking about supposedly completing a terrible episode for many people in the Netherlands. But the only way to complete it is if we tackle the cause as well. The extent to which animal diseases occur and the potential for their transfer to humans are greatly enhanced by the way animals are kept in mega-stables. Previously, we advocated keeping livestock farms at an appropriate distance from crowded habitation and keeping fewer cattle in livestock-proof areas. Last September, this minister informed us and the public that he and the Minister of LNV had set up a Signalings-Zoönosen consultation. It is, of course, very nice that the Ministers keep their finger on the pulse, but can the Minister also tell us what concrete measures he is going to take in order to bring about a reduction in the number of farms and reduce their impact? If he also looks critically at that, my question is. 'Cause we're never gonna want this again. We cannot close our eyes to the risks that still exist. We must never let this happen again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u22	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is now fourteen years since the first outbreak of Q fever took place. The various outbreaks eventually led to a national epidemic that lasted from 2007 to 2011. Thousands of people have become ill, of whom 97 have eventually died of Q fever. Currently, according to the patient organisation Q-uestion, approximately 1,500 people are still chronically ill. They either have chronic Q fever or Q fever fatigue syndrome. Mr. Chairman. For those who are chronically ill or those who have lost a partner, father, mother, son or daughter, Q fever is still a painful reality that they face every day. That is why it is a good thing that after all these years there is now finally a form of recognition in the form of financial compensation for this group. It was a recommendation from the National Ombudsman to make a gesture despite the court's ruling that the government is not liable. The previous and current Cabinets have taken up this recommendation, but all in all, victims have had to wait a long time for this regulation. I can imagine this wringing. It is therefore also important that the scheme be implemented as soon as possible. That is why I have a number of questions. Initially, the government assumed about 1,000 applications. The amount of €15,000 was based on that. Now twice as many applications have been received. What explanation does the Minister have for that? Do we have enough vision of the patients who are chronically ill? Mr. Chairman. There is still no screening programme for chronic Q fever, although this has been discussed for some time. The minister writes that he thinks it is important that we find people with an undiagnosed chronic Q fever as soon as possible. New cases of chronic Q fever are still being reported, but the scheme only applies to people diagnosed with chronic Q fever before 1 October 2018. How do we prevent, I ask the Minister, people from falling outside the scheme when they do meet all the other criteria? It would be very acidic if we eventually had a screening programme, which reveals new cases of disease, but the road to redress has already been closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u24	An interruption for you, by Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u25	I would like to ask the Christian Union through the President whether she does not agree that the disease should have contracted during the period agreed in the regulation from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2011. Does the Christian Union not think that the regime should actually apply to all victims and that we should drop that restriction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u26	I hear someone from the Chamber explaining this; I have just advocated it. There are limits to the regulation that I find very difficult to explain. It is true that people are still diagnosed for Q fever. The scheme has a number of dates in it. I just don't think I can explain that on the one hand we say that we really want to set up a screening programme and find people who have Q fever, but on the other hand those people are no longer eligible for that scheme. I find that a very strange signal from the government and I have asked questions about it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u27	It is right that Mrs Dik-Faber finds this strange; let me sum it up in my words. But does she also conclude that this scheme should apply to all victims, for example from the year 2005, if we take that as the starting point for the Q-fever epidemic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u28	I don't just think it's weird; I don't think I can explain it either. That is why I asked the Minister for clarification. We are in a debate today; I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions. If that is not satisfactory, then I will not hesitate to table a motion for a resolution. But let's wait for the debate with each other first. I have asked my questions; I also find it very complicated and simply not to explain that the government actually emits a double signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u29	Finally, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u30	Can I conclude, then, that you do not agree with double standards and that the Christian Union also believes that all victims should be eligible for this compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u31	You have just heard me reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u32	Mrs Dik-Faber says it's a good thing there's a gesture coming. But my point and my contribution was as follows: the real damage is in many cases much greater than the scale of that gesture. It should also be noted that this is something that people are not part of, are not responsible for, have not been able to guarantee themselves against and for which they have not been able to take preventive measures. Should not the actual damage, which you determine on the basis of customisation, be the guideline for compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u33	I understand Mr Moorlag's question very well. There are indeed situations that I am also faced with by the representatives of Q-fever patients, where the intangible damage and loss of income are many times greater than the €15,000 that is now being made available. Of course I can see that. But that €15,000 is not covering the damage that people have suffered; it is an acknowledgement of the suffering that has been done to them. That is another gesture that this government is making, which is also important at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u34	In my contribution, I also said that, according to the judge, there is no question of legal liability. On the other hand, everyone here sees that in many cases the suffering and damage is much greater than the compensation offered. My question to Mrs Dik-Faber is: should this remain at the expense and risk of the victims, or should we achieve more proportionate compensation on the basis of individual customisation, individual assessments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u35	As I have just said, this is a gesture from the government that recognises the suffering caused to the victims. It is not the complete cleaning away of all the damage that has been done to them, both on an intangible and on a material level. I understand that the patients are going to continue the course to the judge after all. That's their right. So perhaps this question will also be answered by the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u36	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u37	That's what the PvdA doesn't want. Sometimes it may be that no one is legally responsible, but that there is a very good title to take responsibility for it. I call on Mrs Dik-Faber to take full responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u38	I think we are taking responsibility today. An arrangement has been set up. Victims get €15,000. That group turned out to be twice as big as expected. I've been asking questions about that. I've asked how that can be done and whether we have anyone in the picture. This does not mean that the amount is cut in half; everyone gets that amount of €15,000. I therefore believe that responsibility is being taken here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u39	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber making a glowing argument for the recognition of Q-fever victims. Now, in 2012, my group chairman tabled a motion calling on the government to make an official apology to the Q-fever victims. We have voted by roll call, and the Christian Union was in favour of this, including Mrs Schouten, who is currently Minister. How does Mrs Dik-Faber feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u40	I'm digging deep. I don't think I was a Member of Parliament at the time in 2012. I don't know how that discussion went during that period either. Mistakes may have been made, but I just don't know exactly what the situation was when that motion was tabled and how that debate took place. For me, it is very important for the government to acknowledge that people have been disproportionately affected by Q fever. That's what happens today. A gesture of €15,000 per victim is made, in which this recognition also has a place. Is that an apology? Maybe not quite, but we're definitely going to take a step together. I think that's valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u41	The fact is that the people who have become infected with Q fever do not feel recognized by the compensation or rather by the gesture of compensation; it is a gesture of €15,000. Isn't it time, more than 12 years after the first Q-fever infections, for the government to officially apologize? Because that would do so much for the Q-fever victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u42	With this gesture, I believe that the government does indeed point out that people have been wronged, that they have become ill without their fault. In my view, the government also says with this gesture: we see the suffering; we cannot compensate for all material and intangible damage, but we recognise the suffering suffered by victims. I am sorry to hear that people do not feel that way. I hear other stories, too. Undoubtedly, the Party speaks for the Animals with other people, who are indeed a bit more disappointed. I would also be very interested to hear the Minister's response to this little interrupting debate. Maybe he wants to reflect on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u43	It's a short word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u44	If we retable a motion with an apology request, will the Christian Union support it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u45	If motions are tabled, we will take a good look at them and discuss them in our group meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u46	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u47	Mr. Chairman. I have a third point for the Minister. Can the Minister explain how the procedure is now proceeding? How long will all applications be dealt with and when will people be clarified? Then there are a few other points. There are people who, as a result of their chronic illness, can work less or no longer work at all. Does the Minister consider that the existing arrangements and insurance provide sufficient tailor-made work for this group? Is there, for example, sufficient knowledge of Q fever and the limitations of the disease in instances such as the UWV? Mr. Chairman. I was just talking briefly about the screening program. The initiatives for a screening programme through hospitals have failed. This has wasted valuable time. The minister wants to try it now through the GPs. How does the Minister intend to ensure that, in the short term, we will carry out cover screening on this route? Q-support, the foundation that advises and guides people with chronic Q-fever and with Q-fever fatigue syndrome, has been continued in Q-support 2.0. Can the Minister indicate what Q-support 2.0 is going to do in concrete terms in the coming years? And how is it ensured that there will indeed be a warm transfer from Q support to regular care, even when screening is not yet in order? Mr President, I will conclude. I am glad that with the financial compensation there is finally some form of recognition, but I also see that the Q-fever dossier is far from being closed. I would therefore urge the Minister to continue to work for patients, for the proper implementation of the scheme and for the screening programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u48	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to acute Q-fever, there are 1,000 patients with Q-fever fatigue syndrome and 500 patients with potentially the fatal variant, a chronic form of Q-fever. In the meantime, almost 100 people have died. If you let that get to you, then it is very understandable that the pain and grief in provinces such as North Brabant, Limburg and Gelderland are still very great. The government has made a gesture and the CDA is positive about it. Is it true that this gesture does not affect matters such as rent, care and so on? There are still people with Q fever. The CDA therefore wonders whether the deadline for the application is not too short. Are children who can have Q fever eligible for the financial compensation? The diagnosis often takes a long time. In December 2018, reports were published in the media and also through the Q-fever association that the number of people with Q-fever continues to increase. That's a very worrying message. The Radboudumc has set up a Q-fever Expertise Centre, but doctors have difficulty recognizing the symptoms. What can happen from the Ministry or RIVM to support doctors in earlier recognition of symptoms? There are studies on the chronic form of Q fever, but is there any research on people with fatigue syndrome? Isn't it good to keep these people under permanent surveillance? Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated in April 2018 that the risk groups are being screened, such as those with cardiovascular problems. In our conversation with the patient association Q-uestion we heard that this has not yet started. Is that right? And what are we gonna do if it turns out that a group of people are infected? Are there sufficient care and guidance for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u50	Mrs Van den Berg, there is an interruption for you from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u51	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u52	I would like to come back to the beginning of Mrs Van den Berg's speech. This was also about the group that should be eligible for compensation; let us call it that. Does the CDA also consider that all victims should be eligible for this compensation from 2005 onwards? And two: does the CDA actually think that compensation of €15,000 is too low? Wouldn't a compensation doubling to €30,000 be fairer, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u53	I did ask for that deadline. We find it difficult to explain that someone who is diagnosed with Q fever for a six-month period would no longer be eligible for it. Hence our question to the Minister to respond. We do not think that you can measure it with double standards. The second question asked by Mr Van Gerven concerns financial compensation. A gesture has been made. We realize that the pain for a lot of people can be much greater, but we think that an amount of €20,000 or €25,000 is also arbitrary. In my contribution I come back to the role of the UWV and the municipalities with the Wmo. We see that there is often a lack of knowledge there, while people should be entitled to disability benefits, but are not yet or are not sufficiently qualified to do so. Other colleagues have already mentioned this. We think it is very important that personal attention and tailor-made work are also given in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u54	Thank you for this first answer, because I think that a large majority of the House, and perhaps unanimity, is developing to compensate all the victims. But then about the level of compensation. I think that the CDA, which, of course, was in charge when the Q-fever drama took place, even has a special responsibility to ensure that there is a solution for those who are now suffering from the consequences. We cannot reverse it all, but we can ensure that there is a solution that everyone is at peace with, especially in the group itself. Now we've got that from the SP. This showed that an amount of €30,000, which, of course, is also arbitrary, just like that €15,000, is more appropriate to what people would think was reasonable and fair. Couldn't the CDA support that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u55	Mr Van Gerven talks about the history of this dossier. Especially with the knowledge of today, we must of course conclude that there has been absolutely insufficient attention to people and patient safety. But again, I indicated that a gesture has now been made. We welcome the fact that this Minister is doing so. At least his predecessor didn't. We do want many more people to be eligible. Mr Van Gerven rightly states that the suffering suffered by people can be much greater, for example in the case of incapacity for work. That is why we say that, especially from UWV and the municipalities with the Wmo, the actual support and compensation should come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u56	But I am concerned about acceptance of this generic compensation. When the figure of €15,000 was mentioned, it was, as it were, hoarded away. People thought that was a dime, a tip. Those messages came from the patient association and the victims. They feel inadequate with that. Again, we can't solve it all, but that €30,000 would do more for what lives among the victims. Again, shouldn't that be a reason for us as representatives of the government to be more generous towards these people and to extend that gesture to, for example, €30,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u57	In particular, we hear stories about children who have Q fever and are no longer able to go to school on an ordinary bike, but need an electric bike to go to school. For them it is much more important that the municipality provides support from the Wmo. The same applies to people who are unfit for work. In any case, these are the signals we have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u58	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u59	So I had started with those risk groups, like those with heart and vascular problems, being screened. We hear this conversation wouldn't have started yet. Is that right? What are we gonna do if it turns out that this group is much bigger? Is there sufficient care and guidance for that? The CDA also understands that there are a number of specific therapies that lead to more quality of life in Q-fever patients. Is the scientific basis ready for that? Has the Quality Institute also advised on the inclusion of this programme in basic insurance? The CDA notes that in people who have been diagnosed with Q fever and who have had to live with it for several years, applications for care and support are often difficult to achieve. I just reported that, too. Some people are permanently disabled. The Minister states in his letter of 24 September that Q fever is recognised and patients can apply for re-examination. What's the status of that? My group colleagues from the affected provinces tell me stories about missing recognition and recognition of the problem. This is true for the UWV, as other colleagues have already pointed out, but also for Wmo applications. As I have already mentioned, we hear that sick children who can only come to school with an electric bike are not helped by municipalities. What can the Minister do about it? Then the demand for the future. An outbreak of another zoonoses; we should not think about it. Is the patient perspective in the protocols adequately secured? Is there also a kind of practical support point that can be ready in case of an outbreak within 48 hours, as with the GGD? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u60	There is another question for you, Mrs Van den Berg. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u61	Mr Van Gerven mentioned in his interruption for a moment that the CDA was at the helm in the cabinet during the period of the outbreak of the Q-fever. What is Mrs Van den Berg's view of the fact that goat farmers have been compensated by 60 million? Mrs Van den Berg, would you like to compare that with the €15,000, the gesture that the Minister is now making to the deadly Q-fever patients and their next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u62	I would like to say two things about that. There has been compensation for farmers in the event of such an outbreak. Just now, in reply to Mr Van Gerven's questions, I indicated that there was, in fact, almost a battle between two ministries rather than cooperation. That just didn't go well. I have just indicated that there was insufficient attention at that time to people and to patient safety. That is precisely the reason for my last question to the Minister, namely that I hope that everything has now been done to deal with it in a different way, should there ever be an outbreak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u63	Does Mrs Van den Berg think that lessons have been learned from the past and from the epidemic, especially in view of the fact that in the last five years the number of goats in the Netherlands has risen by 50% to a staggering number of 660,000 goats?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u64	I think the permits for those companies were granted by the provinces. That is where we would like to leave it. In any case, I understand that several provinces are already taking measures to this end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u65	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u66	That's not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u67	Mrs Arissen asks me whether I read her wrong or whether I think there are too many goats in the meantime. Again, as far as I'm aware, the provinces issue permits for those companies. It is therefore up to the provinces to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u68	Mrs. Van Kooten, we're doing a three-way interruption. I'm sorry. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u69	I had not received an answer to my question and I would like to say one final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u70	Do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u71	Thank you, Mr President. My question was whether the CDA believes that lessons have been learned from the past when such explosive goat growth is taking place in the goat sector. People, including people in the vicinity of such farms, should be optimally protected against a possible new outbreak of Q fever, if so many animals are kept on a pawn and the risk of zoonoses is greatly increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u72	At least that is the background to my last question to the Minister. I ask him, what about the protocols? If there were another outbreak, what are the measures taken now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u73	Mr. Chairman. I would like to continue with this, because Mrs van den Berg is right to say that this should not happen again. So we need to look very closely at the causes and we need to be able to assess the risks in order to avoid this. And those risks have to do with medical treatment, but they also have to do with intensive livestock farming, which increases the chance of passing this terrible disease on to people. My question to Mrs Van de Berg is: does she agree that the risk analysis now being carried out by this Ministry of Health should include this element of the possible cause of the outbreak of such a disease?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u74	I read in the Minister's letter that very tight controls are being carried out on holdings that keep goats, that there are checks every month, that there are very tight vaccination programmes and that the slightest or least intervention is being taken. And if that is not yet sufficiently clear, I would very much like to hear a response from the Minister to this interruption by Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u75	Those controls are, of course, extremely important. At the same time, we know that the risk of such an outbreak is many times greater if there is intensive livestock farming. It's exactly what Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen says. What have we seen in recent years? An increase in intensive livestock farming. To increase the risk of the outbreak of such a terrible disease. And if we really think that this should never happen again, then we should take it seriously. And that is not a matter for the green parties here in the Chamber. Then that is something that each party should appeal to, from left to right, green or non-green. This is also about the risks to very dangerous diseases, to people who are sitting here in the bleachers. We have to prevent that. And then we all have to look at the possible consequences of intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u76	Mr. Chairman. I would very much like from the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u77	You are not supposed to respond to Members in the gallery. I understand you do, but can we meet and not do that? Mrs Van den Berg, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u78	Mr. Chairman. In response to Mrs Ellemeet's question, my question would be to the Minister to clarify exactly how the risk analysis is taking place and which elements are being taken into account. Once again, I understand from the Minister's letter that this is being looked at very intensively, but I would like to hear a further reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u79	Mr. Chairman. People have just been seriously wronged. Apart from their guilt and guilt, they have been affected by diseases arising from the activity of the company. I would like to mention the issue of proportionality. After all, we simply have to establish that public intervention has not been adequate and proportionate. With today's science, so afterwards, we've established that. But when it comes to compensation for the damage, does Mrs Van den Berg consider it proportionate that the entrepreneurs, the goat farmers, have been generously compensated, and that there are people who are now receiving compensation which is in no way proportionate to the real damage they are suffering? Isn't that a big scandal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u80	As I pointed out earlier, there should have been absolutely more attention to human and patient safety. So again, the CDA also wants this just to stop happening that way. In any case, we are pleased that this Minister has now made this gesture, which has been rightly awaited for a very long time. And what also emerged in the debate earlier: there is no legal liability of the government, but that does not mean that these people should not be helped. That is why in my contribution I have also explicitly asked for more expertise in UWV but also in municipalities. Then much better support and benefits can be given both from the UWV and from the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u81	But still a large part of the damage and suffering remains unreciprocated. I said in my speech that it may not be unlawful, but it is very unjust. That's how it's felt. We can't rewrite history. We can't do it any better. But we can do something towards the future, namely give people perspective. My question to Mrs Van den Berg is in line with what the Ombudsman has advised. It recommended that financial compensation be provided for specific situations characterised by the hardness of the consequences for individuals affected. Proportionally, in proportion to the suffering, the damage that people have suffered. Is Mrs Van den Berg prepared to take such a step, to allow individual assessment of the damage? Is it prepared to grant proportional compensation if the compensation is not proportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u82	There will always be cases that, despite the financial gesture that has been made, the benefits of the UWV and the support from the Wmo, do not feel that all their damage has been compensated. This will probably always result in a few individual court cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u83	Locking up. My point is that you should not look at this with the glasses of legal liability. There is also such a thing as moral responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u84	It is precisely for this reason that we consider it so important that the UWV gets much better knowledge, so that people who are wrongly not receiving or who are underpaid receive a disability benefit that is sufficient. I mentioned that example of those kids who can't go to school on a regular bike. The point is that a municipality in such a situation helps much more. We understand that there is also additional compensation from education for sick children and students and that they can take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u85	I just heard Mr Moorlag talk about moral responsibility. The previous cabinet felt that moral responsibility was so important that it did not come up with a settlement for the Q-fever victims until it was expelled. This cabinet has put a shovel on top of it. On the basis of that, I will come up with my question. This cabinet has put a shovel on top of it. I really like that. At the same time, I also see that there is a kind of two-track policy in the Minister's letter. On the one hand, there is a screening program. We want to find the people who are dealing with Q fever. On the other hand, there are tight dates in the scheme. How does Mrs Van den Berg look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u86	It's indigestible to me. I can't explain it either. I think Mrs Dik-Faber made that very clear in her speech. You're trying to screen and find people. Then you say: I found you, but you happen not to qualify now, because the date has expired. That is why we ask the Minister to look at the deadlines. Someone infected is just infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u87	I welcome this answer. Let's wait and see the Minister's response. If necessary, we can come back to this together in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u88	You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u90	Then I give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u91	Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate here today on the compensation of Q-fever patients. I am well aware that this sounds very clinical and in no way does justice to the enormous suffering caused by the Q-fever outbreak more than ten years ago to this day. People who couldn't do anything about it in any way got sick or even died. To this day, the grief is deeply felt and people have to live with the lasting consequences of the outbreak of years ago. Of course, these people, who are also sitting here, have little to gain from the fact that much has been learned from the outbreak. There's gonna be a vaccination now. There is much better crisis policy around zoonoses. Much has also been learned about the diagnosis and treatment of Q-fever, although in this area far from all investigations are over and much remains to be done. This is all very important, especially towards the future, but the victims of the previous outbreak are left with a lot of misery. The VVD therefore considers it right that the cabinet grants financial compensation to these victims. The money won't take away the suffering. It's not compensation either. Any liability is the subject of an appeal. That is something we cannot and should not judge here. The amount is, however, a recognition of the fact that the suffering is great. I would like to thank the Minister for his decision, in consultation with the Minister for Agriculture, to grant the maximum payment of €15,000 to all victims who meet the conditions. After all, the suffering is hardly weighed or compared. It is now important that benefits are made quickly and without thresholds. Can the Minister make it clear how he is going to take care of this? Mr. Chairman. With the payment of the concession, the book Q fever cannot and will not be closed. To this day, new patients are diagnosed. It is important for them that much has been learned about this disease and that they receive the right treatment immediately. As far as we don't know enough, the investigation into this miserable disease must continue. Several of my colleagues have already said something about this and asked questions about it; I am happy to endorse that. The main concern of the VVD Group is now the adequate and timely diagnosis, screening. Several colleagues have already said something about this. The Minister asked RIVM in 2017 to set up a targeted screening programme to actively visualise the patients. This programme was initially aimed at cooperation with medical specialists, but it is now known that it is better to run this through the general practitioners. The necessary directive for general practitioners is now available with some delay. The biggest question is: how is it ensured that this directive is not a paper reality, but that general practitioners, in cooperation with the RIVM, are involved? I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's putting pressure on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u92	Mr Van Gerven has a question for you, perhaps on the previous point, because then he rose up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u93	A little predictable, the questions, but I think it is important for the VVD to decide whether it believes that all victims should be compensated and eligible for that gesture. Otherwise it feels like measuring with two sizes: diagnosing but not compensating. And what does the VVD think of the idea, which has a lot of support for patient organisation Q-uestion, to double the compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u94	I'll start with that last one. The amount now allocated is a recognition of the suffering. It's not compensation. We have to separate those things. That's relevant. It is true that compensation can still be seen. If it turns out on appeal that the government is liable, we will end up in a very different story than we are now. Then the damage must be compensated and we must also compensate for damage on a tailor-made basis. Mr Moorlag has already said what is involved. These matters are all relevant, but then liability must be recognised. It's not right now. On heights you can find everything, but I think it is particularly important that, regardless of who is victim and whatever the degree of suffering, everyone has access to the maximum compensation and that this is also regulated, so that we have not weighed it. Doubling the amount is ultimately also arbitrary. I think we should leave it at this figure for now. Then there is the second part of Mr Van Gerven's question, which is about a target group found within the time frame 2007 to 2011. I wonder if the Minister can indicate what we are talking about if we go beyond those frameworks. How many people are we talking about and what is it about? I want to get a look at that before I can finally judge what I think of that. It is important that we map that and I also feel the inconvenience that a lot of people feel here, but framing an arrangement is sometimes necessary to make sure that you can decide and pay out so that we can move on. I would not want the current regulation to be delayed when we are all going to do things around it. But I'm for mapping anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u95	We are, of course, waiting for the Minister's answer to that last one. It is clear, however, that, in quantitative terms, the numbers involved are not very large, compared to those at the time, at the height of the epidemic. Let me now turn to the level of compensation. Mr Rutte is right to say that people can try to achieve their rights in the legal sense and that this compensation is not the same as an enforceable legal right. But if compensation is sufficiently high for people's feelings, the result is that they will refrain from further legal proceedings and that they will experience a degree of satisfaction. That's very valuable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u96	That is where Mr Van Gerven has a point in that it could also be a way of saying: here is an amount and that ends the legal procedure. But I guess this is no way to go in the end. You'll never get out of that. People also have the right to conduct proceedings and to check whether the State is liable and therefore to receive full compensation for damages. We do not know what the outcome of this is, but I sincerely think it is very important that that question of law be answered and that if the answer is that the State is liable, we will act accordingly. Now it's really about the concession. It's separate from that trajectory. I also think that we should assess them separately. Then I find €15,000 a substantial amount. Any discussion on the level of the amount will soon become arbitrary, and that is why I do not want to go along with it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u97	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u98	I think it has some ground, because it's worn by the patient organization. It is indeed an arbitrary amount; what it should be exactly is up to now, but it does give some satisfaction. For a number of people it means: then we close the file. In addition, the question of whether or not something will come out of this legal process is still very much a matter of concern. We'll have to wait and see. I'm a little pessimistic about that myself. So I am also looking for solutions to give the large group a generous gesture and, on the other hand, for a committee of independent experts to look again at a smaller group which is extremely hard hit and which is now, for example, in the process of litigation. That is a much smaller group of several hundred. What does the VVD think of getting out of these legal procedures and, for example, having an independent committee of experts look at a number of very poignant cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u99	I greatly appreciate the way in which Mr Van Gerven thinks about this. I have also let go of my own thoughts on the examples he mentions. I've had the conversations, too. After I have organized everything, I finally come to the conclusion that we now have to do the route for this amount, as recognition. As much as you'd like, with any commission and any other amount, you'll probably never be able to legally close the book. There will always be people who want to pursue their cause. Then it is also important that we see that trial and that liability is finally assessed, including on appeal. Because I think that is very important, I do not come to all kinds of intermediate forms, however much I can follow and understand Mr Van Gerven's thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u100	We know the VVD as the party to economic growth. The goat sector is big business. We're the most cattle-proof country in the world. My question to Mr Rutte is whether he does not find it distressing that public health and animal welfare are still being sacrificed on the altar of the economy to this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u101	Those are the words of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I don't share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u102	That's a very short reaction. Then that's how I'm gonna ask. I hear Mr Rutte say that we have learned from the Q-fever outbreak, that a gesture is now being made to the Q-fever patients and that we will ensure that it does not happen again in the future. The fact is that the goat sector has grown by 50% over five years and the number of goats has increased to over 600,000. Zoonoses thrive in a cattle-tight area very well. There's a high risk of mutations. Did we actually learn from the Q fever outbreak? Can we actually say that in the future people will be protected from outbreaks such as the Q-fever outbreak?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u103	The Netherlands is a country in which animals are kept. We have learned a lot from the outbreak of Q fever. There's gonna be a vaccination now. We know a lot more about zoonoses and we also act much faster. That's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u104	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u105	Many studies show that this sick system of intensive livestock farming is a ticking time bomb. The VVD is willingly involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u106	I don't hear a question in that, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to say what I said to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen: that the situation is really different now than in 2007. And that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u107	Thank you. Mrs. Van Kooten, you've used up your interruptions. You can post your comments in the second period. You can also ask the Minister. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my condolences from this place to the victims of the Q-fever outbreak, to the relatives of the deceased and to those who still suffer the consequences of Q-fever every day. I am also thinking of the animals, because the excavations from almost ten years ago are still clear on the retina. The suffering of the biggest Q-fever outbreak worldwide was and is great. It's still big, isn't it? Heartbreaking are the stories of Q-fever patients and heartbreaking is also the fact that they have had to wait eight years for recognition and compensation, while at the same time 60 million were allocated to compensate farmers. Certainly, better late than never, but I still have some questions about compensation. I ask the Minister on which the amount of €15,000 is based. Can the Minister explain that? In a report by SEO, it is estimated that the social health damage caused by the Q-fever comes to an average of €22,000 per patient per year. But that $15,000 would be very thin, wouldn't it? Why compensate for chronic Q fever and Q fever fatigue syndrome, but not for acute Q fever? This last group has suffered as well, though they may be cured now? Finally, the diagnosis should have been made before 1 October 2018 and the application had to be in before 1 February. What about the patients who aren't here? The epidemic is far from over, isn't it? A further 80 patients have been added since 2016 and a large number of people have died, bringing the total to 97 people. I have also heard the question about the deadline posed by D66, CDA and Christian Union. So I think the Minister really needs something with that. It is not just the opposition parties who believe that the deadline should be extended. I would like to hear a very clear answer from the Minister. It is estimated that there are still 200 to 300 people with Q fever who have not yet been diagnosed. Usually patients report ignorantly with heart and vascular problems to an alert specialist who has them tested for Q fever. Then the Minister will drop these people? Is it too late or is he really gonna do something about it? Finally. Of course, we all want to prevent these outbreaks. What about vaccination of goats and sheep? The danger has actually passed, I ask. And if so, are all animals vaccinated? And what about those companies that have waivers for conscientious objection? And why would a minister accept that? Why does he allow conscientious objectors not to vaccinate? Last year, illegal goat farming was discovered. Were these goats grafted? Has that been checked, I ask. Then the question whether the Netherlands becomes and remains Q-fever free. What guarantees has the Minister put in place for this? What is being done at the moment about research and treatment because of the disease and for the people who are suffering from the disease? How much money is available for that? In previous debates, my group has always stressed the need for citizens to know where they stand. They need to know if there may be a danger to their health if they go on a bike ride in the countryside, pet lambs on a farm or go camping in nature. It is scandalous that at the time no warning signs were placed on Q fever, while my group insisted on it in good time. How does the Minister look at that afterwards? All intensive livestock farms should have warning signs about the risks to which people are exposed when they are in the vicinity of that farm, because it is not just Q fever. There are also other health complaints surrounding these companies. That's what I'm asking the Minister to do. And if so, what will the Chamber be informed about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u109	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Chamber. The Minister asked for ten minutes of preparation to answer the questions. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u110	May I ask all interested parties to take their seats again? Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister to answer all the questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u111	Thank you, Mr President. You invited me here today to talk about Q fever. I am always impressed by the impact of the disease, even now, years after the end of the epidemic. I sympathize with the fear and uncertainty of people who have chronic Q fever and who do not know what that will mean to them. And I sympathize with the grief of the next of kin of people who died of Q fever. Because for a number of people Q fever is a daily reality. Q fever has had major consequences. People have died of Q fever or become seriously ill. The impact on their lives and that of their neighbors is logically enormous. The cabinet is well aware of the major consequences of the Q-fever epidemic. We sympathize with the patients and their neighbors. Before the government has taken measures to control the outbreak and to prevent or mitigate the possible negative consequences for citizens as much as possible, people have become seriously ill or even died. Mr. Chairman. People don't feel heard. As a gesture of recognition, the previous cabinet, following the Ombudsman's second report, decided to make a non-compulsory financial contribution. A gesture of recognition of the consequences of patients and their families, and with which some still live. It is therefore not a question of compensation or compensation, but of non-compulsory financial compensation. Any patient with chronic Q-fever, QVS or QVS-like illness and the relatives of patients who have died of chronic Q-fever, who have become infected during or in the year following the outbreak, could apply until 31 January. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the application period is closed. Over 2,000 people have applied for compensation. To do justice to the intention of the gesture, I, on behalf of the Minister of LNV, decided on 1 February to award €15,000 to anyone who is eligible for the concession. At present, we are trying to deal with all applications as quickly as possible and to pay this amount for each approved application. I would like to reassure patients that this amount does not affect welfare and is not added to income. For surcharges, VWS will compensate them if they lose their allowance for rent, care or child-related budget by 2020, i.e. next year, if they did get it in 2019. Mr President, this is an introduction. Now I would like to answer a number of questions in order of the speakers. First of all, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen made a point: to apologise and to compensate. I think that is a complicated point, but I fully understand that the question is being asked. I repeat that the Cabinet expresses its condolences to those who suffer and suffer from Q fever and that kind of consequences of the disease. Excuse is sometimes seen as debt recognition in the Netherlands, or linked to debt recognition. That's a whole different chapter that comes before the trial. However complicated it may be, the discussion we are having here tonight is about compensation, about non-compulsory financial compensation. I want to separate those two clearly, because that's important. Some of you have done so in the debate. I don't actually think that there's $15,000 or $10,000 or put another zero behind it that people's suffering can be caught in money. That's why it's important to keep these two apart. There will be legal proceedings. I know they've started and are walking right now. That right must have its course, but this evening it is about the gesture of recognition: recognition of the suffering that people have suffered. I feel strongly supported by what was said in the Van Dijk evaluation committee in 2010, but also by what has been said in the court cases so far. Firstly, in the direction of Mrs Van Kooten and many others who have made similar comments. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question: has the cabinet learned? Yes. I thought Mrs Van Kooten also asked this question in the debate we had a year ago. I think that the Zoonosen structure, the way the government operates between GPs, GGDs and RIVM, has really improved a lot since the outbreak of the Q-fever epidemic. I think that's important, too. I know that there is a monthly consultation between the GGDs, sharing the knowledge about zoonoses that occur, because you can never completely prevent zoonoses from occurring 100%. Therefore, it is important that there is a structure that is practical and that is used by both the general practitioners, the GGD and RIVM. Have you learned enough? I find it presumptuous to say that we have learned enough, because the suffering from Q fever is great. But yes, I also believe that the government has really learned lessons from the Q-fever epidemic. A third question from Mrs Van Kooten was about young victims. I would like to respond to this in a little more detail in the light of Mr Van Gerven's speech. Then towards Mrs Van Brenn. She is not here now because she is having another debate, but she said she is listening. Mrs Van Brenk asked: gesture for recognition, for recognition of what? I believe that the financial gesture the cabinet wants to make with this €15,000 is a gesture to acknowledge the suffering. Mrs Van Brenk's rhetorical question was: does the amount satisfy the people? I don't believe it. I hope some people think "okay, now the book for me can close with offering that €15,000," but that certainly won't apply to everyone. Mrs Van Brenn asked a question about the care allowance and the rent allowance. I just answered it. Then there are Mr Van Gerven, who has asked a number of questions. Is there enough money to do research? In doing so, Mr Van Gerven asked for specific attention to be paid to the group of children and young people. I think Q-fever fatigue syndrome in children and young people is worth investigating, to show that we are not closing the book by paying a settlement, but that attention also remains to Q-fever fatigue syndrome in children. I know that part of the budget was made available by the province of Brabant. I also know that crowdfunding has started. I also know that the research I am talking about here, and that goes through ZonMw, will cost the order of 0.5 million. The two amounts of crowdfunding and North Brabant do not bring that amount together. I think it is important that that investigation is carried out. I'll make sure that research is paid with additional resources from VWS. Mr Van Gerven has actually asked the question more broadly: is there enough budget to investigate the consequences of Q fever? There are several programs; I'm not going to list them all here tonight. But, yes, there is an amount in the order of 13 million available for the research programme on infectious diseases. The ZonMw programme Q fever, which started in 2010, made 5 million available. A further 16 Q-fever research projects have been funded through Q-support: some 2.5 million. It is important that this research should continue. I will come to the question of screening and monitoring later. That may also give rise to further investigation. Mr Van Gerven asked whether the amount should not be doubled, or whether it should not be €15,000. Whether it's €30,000, €60,000, €15,000 or €5,000, you're not taking away the suffering. As a cabinet, we tried to determine a sum. Some of you have asked: how do you get that amount? Well, an amount of EUR 10 million has been made available in the previous cabinet. This cabinet has made a sum available for both Q-support 2.0 and for the gesture of financial recognition. Together, this was in the order of 14.5 million for recognition. We had thought that there might be about 1,000 applications, but it turned out to be much more. The number was found to be in the order of 2,000. I have always tried to communicate carefully towards your Room, but also towards Q-support and Q-uestion, that it would be up to €15,000. In order to get ahead of that bullshit, we have agreed in the cabinet to choose €15,000 for everyone. That is an arbitrary amount, which I fully acknowledge, but I do not believe that there is one amount to be made that can remove the suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u112	The minister says that it's not really about the amount, whether it's €15,000 or a zero behind it, he even said. I think that matters. In fact, the Minister himself acknowledges that, because the original plan was maximum amount X and maximum €15,000. When the group turned out to be twice as big, the minister came around. Then he also thought to himself: if it is then €7,500 per victim, I do not want to take care of that. He knows very well that this would hurt the people involved. If you doubled the amount, what the SP is proposing, wouldn't it be more appropriate to what lives with the patient Q-uestion and its supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u113	I have said it before: I do not believe that suffering can be caught in money. That's why the cabinet is heading for that €15,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u114	I know. That's what the Minister said. My question is whether if you were to double the amount, it would no longer satisfy people's feelings. Their suffering has been enormous due to the failure of the government. The government does not fully recognise this, but it does make a gesture. So, to some extent, debt is recognised. If you're gonna take that step, isn't it okay to put it in a way that says the biggest group of victims, okay? It is an arbitrary amount, but of course substantial, if it were €30,000. At least they can close that book for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u115	There is a misunderstanding in Mr Van Gerven's speech. There's no question of debt recognition. That's the hard part, too. This cabinet has thought: not only should we leave it with words of compassion, but we must also make a gesture. This form of gesture has become a financial gesture, for which the amount of €15,000 has now been determined. Again, I think that in the end the suffering cannot be caught in a sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u116	Finally, briefly, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u117	With that gesture, of course, the government recognizes a certain responsibility. Suppose the government really felt that it had no responsibility at all for what had happened, that economic interests prevailed over health interests................................................................................................................................................................................................... Surely it is not possible for the Minister to make that gesture, when the government would not be blamed or blamed at all? That can't be true, can it? At least, I've never seen that happen before. I don't think it's right either. A middle course is now being chosen, and that's okay. But do a middle course in which the victims also feel that they are being met to a great extent in their feelings of being victims and that they are being compensated to a reasonable extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u118	I understand that such a gesture has been made before, but that is very exceptional. I think it is good to emphasise that this cabinet does not want to remain merely words of compassion, but also links something tangible to it. Therefore, that gesture, the recognition of €15,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u119	I hear the minister saying that the Q-fever outbreak has taught us. I'm really wondering if that's true. There has been extensive growth in the goat sector alone over the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u120	There's a lot to say for my department and the Department of Agriculture. I have indicated that, precisely from the point of view of public health, the focus on zoonoses has become much more practical, and I am sorry for that word, and the structural improvement between general practitioners, GGD and RIVM. The parties have learned lessons from the Q-fever epidemic, and I think that is a plus, which I think is a gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u121	Knowledge sharing is good. It is about the sharing of knowledge about Q fever when the patient has become ill, between general practitioners, GGD and RIVM. But does the Minister not agree with me that in this case it is also better to prevent than to cure, that we should look at the causes of the Q-fever outbreak and curb the unbridled growth of the goat sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u122	I have just said in response to another question from Mr Van Gerven that I think it is important to continue doing research, to screen and to monitor the consequences for patients. I also think this is the public health aspect, and I would like to emphasise this here, because I do not think that the book can be closed. The fact that there is, of course, a whole agricultural side to this issue is something for another table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u123	Finally, ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u124	Then it is in the eyes of the Minister "healing is better than preventing." Q fever is chronic and unhealable in many cases, so it is very unfortunate that the Minister for Medical Care does not want to look at the causes of Q fever outbreak and the dangers that 600,000 goats pose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u125	I would like to return to the previous point that Mr Van Gerven raised. There is now an acknowledgement, a financial gesture has been made. I notice that the Minister is afraid of words that may lead to claims for damages, so to speak. But that's not what I care about. I am concerned, as I said in my speech, that we should look deeply at how this has gone. Twelve years this has taken! I am not concerned about calling this minister guilty, but I do not think it is acceptable for him to say: me, us, politics is not blamed. It can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u126	Two points. First of all... I started by expressing my condolences, not in a subtlety but as an important subject. I have said this here and in the correspondence I delivered to your Chamber earlier and in the conversations with Q-uestion. I'll keep repeating that. I can imagine that there is a great deal of suffering, and sometimes I can hardly imagine the extent of the suffering. I am trying to break up the whole legal process on the one hand, and on the other hand, to make a financial gesture not only of words, but also of an act. Mr President, this has indeed taken a very long time. That is why it is a good thing that we quickly put this scheme together, quickly opened it up, and are also trying to obtain early benefits for the people concerned. I'd like this to be settled for the summer vacation. My ambition is to do that, not because the book can be closed anywhere, but perhaps with a number of people. That would be fun. Yes, I also think it has taken a long time, but I do think it is important that the glove has been picked up, that we have not only been stuck in words and that a gesture of recognition, including financial recognition, has also been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u127	I think there is no one in this Chamber who does not agree that it is important that a gesture be made, a financial gesture. But that ignores my remark that it is too easy to say: I am merely expressing my condolences, but I do so as a complete outsider. No. We, as politicians, have been very closely involved in recent years. I would like to hear a statement from this Minister, even though he takes over the words I have used, that we politicians must also bow our heads deeply. For we have partly caused people to have to endure that long period of time before we finally came up with this recognition. Is the Minister not prepared to draw this somewhat more towards him and say that this has indeed taken a very long time and that politics has played a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u128	I think it's the most important thing that I expressed that sympathy. I didn't do that for a while, but I made that an important point. Second. I believe that this cabinet should not be left with words, but should also take action. I tried to do that by working very hard on the measure. Those are the words I choose because I care that people still experience the consequences of Q fever on a daily basis. I can't believe it. That is why I am trying to do mine to make an arrangement and to implement it quickly and dedicated. That's my ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u129	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u130	Mr. Chairman. I have one other question from Mr Van Gerven's speech. In his speech, he suggested that a committee be set up to determine the damage with some kind of hardness clause. Mr President, you heard it in the first part of my speech: I am not in favour of it. Two things have to be separated. One is the gesture of recognition, and the legal process will also know its progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u131	Does the Minister realize that if he doesn't do something about that legal game, the people who are involved may be in trial for eight more years? We are now having a debate in which everyone complains that it takes so long: eight years, ten years or more. Now the Minister says that people can make the corridor to the judge and that he is not going to interfere. But a trial up to the Supreme Court or the Court of Europe could take up to eight years. Does the Minister consider that a desirable outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u132	I would never use the words "a legal game," but of course it is a right of every Dutchman to make the course to the judge. Apart from that, I think it is important that the cabinet should first express sympathy and secondly that a gesture should be given for recognition, not only with words but also with deeds. Therefore also the amount of €15,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u133	The group I am explicitly talking about is now going through the legal process. That's a group in the order of 300 people. My proposal is that a committee of independent experts should have a look at that group in order to avoid a long-term procedure, the outcome of which is uncertain. I would like to remind the Minister of his colleague Minister Dekker. He said the following about the course of justice: "I am concerned that people's problems are resolved quickly, effectively and easily. Sometimes it can't be otherwise than through the courts, but often it can also be done in a different way. With this proposal, we are going to ensure that the solution is central and not the procedure. So people can quickly leave their problems behind and move on with their lives." This is about a bill that Minister Dekker recently submitted. That's what I had in mind when I was studying this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u134	Do you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u135	Doesn't the Minister agree that we should do something like this, for example for the 300-person group, in order to get out of that legal jousting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u136	No, I don't think we should go that way. Setting up a committee to avoid legal proceedings seems to me to be a very wrong route, which we should not go on. The legal process must take its course. There is also the financial gesture that this cabinet wants to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u137	Finally, Mr. Van Gerven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u138	But as a government, because you feel a certain responsibility for what has happened, you can also look at solutions that do justice to the position of the people and prevent people from having to carry out many years of procedures, often with a financial side. Is there not a way to prevent these people from going through all the misery and legal procedures for many years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u139	I do not think that anyone likes or wants to go through lengthy legal proceedings, but I say again that I do not believe that a committee can replace the way to court. We shouldn't go on that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u140	I would like to join with Mr Van Gerven's speech, because it really shines on all sides: the unfairness, the unreasonableness, that you are completely out of debt affected by a form of business with goats. But it also shines because the Minister in fact says: that legal liability must only be fought before the courts. However, it was the then government that decided to compensate very generously the goat farmers without any liability and without taking the steps to court. This was true not only for the disposal of animals, but also for the loss of income, because they did not have milk yields. There was no lawyer or judge involved. Even Mr. Pieter van Vollenhoven has broken his mind about the fact that there was generous compensation and that the damage is not compensated here. My urgent question to the Minister is: does he want to reconsider his position and do justice to those people who have been disproportionately affected, and also do justice to the Ombudsman's ruling to really look at it in a proportionate manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u141	No, I really want to leave it to that division: on the one hand, I will continue to express my sympathy and, on the other hand, make a financial gesture to acknowledge the suffering suffered by many people who are still experiencing the effects of the Q-fever epidemic on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u142	My question is: why was this line not chosen for entrepreneurs, namely to express sympathy for their goats' illness and to make a gesture of €15,000? There was an entrepreneurial risk there. These are people who have been unable to protect themselves from this risk in any way. It is a risk that has arisen entirely beyond their fault. This is not an entrepreneurial risk; this is not a civil risk either. Shouldn't the government care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u143	I am really looking at that arrangement, for that financial gesture to the people, from a public health point of view. I fully recognise that there can also be a whole debate behind it about entrepreneurs, goat farmers, sheep farmers and so on. But I think it is important to put this at the heart of tonight's debate: on the one hand, to acknowledge the suffering and to express the sympathy for it and, on the other hand, to make a financial gesture for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u144	Finally, Mr Moorlag, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u145	Finally. The Minister also said earlier: suffering cannot be caught in money. There is no doubt that Leed can be caught in money. There are just standards to calculate injury damage and immaterial damage. That should be the measure here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u146	Mr Moorlag then uses the word 'compensation'. However, the question of compensation is not expressly raised here. This is completely separate from the compensation which may be the consequence of legal proceedings. This evening we are discussing the regulation to make a financial gesture for recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u147	The Minister says: a gesture is sufficient and the expression of compassion is also sufficient. Now, one or two weeks before the elections on 11 March 2017, our Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, spoke about Q fever patients on the local channel 1Limburg in the election debate. He said there: we have to apologize for how Q fever has gone, for the approach. He also said that the Q-fever patients have an individual right to compensation. And after the elections, it turns out that the cabinet says through the Minister: compassion is enough, and a gesture of €15,000 is also enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u148	No, I don't think I said that. I did not say 'a gesture is sufficient' or 'words of compassion are sufficient'. We will have to repeat this, because the book cannot be closed to people affected by the Q-fever epidemic. It is therefore about words of compassion and making a financial gesture. We must also ensure that such an arrangement is implemented with some speed. I think that's important. I think it's practical. I think that could be helpful. I acknowledge that I have also begun to recognise that this will not remove the suffering, certainly not for everyone, especially for those who have been long-term affected by the effects, the disadvantages, of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u149	I have heard the Minister say very clearly: I express my condolences, and that €15,000 should not be seen as a compensation, but as a gesture. Now I ask the Minister: how does that stand in relation to what Prime Minister Mark Rutte said in an election debate two weeks before the elections, in which he said: we should apologize for our approach to Q fever, and Q fever patients have an individual right to compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u150	I choose my words. I'm talking about compassion and not other words. Whether a gesture is sufficient... I have tried to express that I think that a gesture is never enough and that we are not done with it, that we cannot say this evening: that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u151	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u152	I do not get angry very quickly during a debate, but this is what the VVD's words are worth. I hope that people realise that in the run-up to the next election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u153	No, no. I'm still the referee, and I'm asking you not to applaud. The Minister continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u154	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked by Mr Raemakers of D66. He asked: isn't it difficult to name the period of the epidemic? Experts looked at this at the time. It covered the period 2007-2010. A further year has been added, so that people can benefit from the concession scheme if they can be shown by a doctor that there was an outbreak of Q fever during that period from 2007 to 2011. Mr Raemakers' question has also been asked by others. One could say that it is possible that screening for chronic Q-fever will include someone who has not been noticed before, but who, as a result of the Q-fever epidemic of a long time ago, should now be seen as someone diagnosed with chronic Q-fever. Should such a person be able to rely on a compensation scheme? That question triggers me. I think it should be answered positively. I hope it doesn't occur, but imagine that screening for chronic Q fever will reveal another patient who hasn't been diagnosed before or who has been misdiagnosed. Then I think it's important that that patient does report to VWS, to me. Then I'll have the medical committee look into that, see if we can make the same financial gesture towards that person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u155	At least I welcome that commitment, because that's all there is to it. However, the minister went quite quickly over that period from 2007 to 2011. I have heard from several people that they were infected in 2005, in 2006 or perhaps just in 2012. Maybe that's 3 people, maybe that's 20 people or maybe that's 100 people. I don't know, but I'm getting some noises about that. I hear people say: I don't fall within that period from 2007 to 2011. So my question to the Minister is: what difference does it make whether you contracted the infection in 2006 or 2007 and why are we not pulling it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u156	The aim of the scheme is to link that financial gesture to the epidemic. I wanted to name that epidemic period. That's an early year, if I may put it that way, and that's a year-end. That is the period 2007-2010, but there are certainly victims to regret at that time. I admit that, but that's not because of the epidemic. This is at the heart of the scheme: as a result of the epidemic, want to make a financial gesture to a group of Q-fever victims or Q-fever victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u157	I think this is an essential point, because before you have an epidemic, there must of course be an epidemic. So people got through that before that too. If that is in 2006, which ultimately led to what we officially call 'an epidemic' in 2007 or 2008, it does not make any difference to the people who were infected in 2006 and who later became ill. Those people were hit just as hard. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again whether he can at least draw up an inventory of those who have been infected and become ill before 2007 and whether he can do something for that group as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u158	No, I really want to limit myself. It is easy to say: we make the big gesture, even before and after, for the whole period. But the purpose of the cabinet was to make a financial gesture for the victims as a result of the epidemic. That's why I'm pretty strict in that procedure, in that framing of the era. So I would like to make one comment for people who, for example, have been misdiagnosed and who appear as a result of the chronic Q fever disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u159	This debate was going very well, but I am still afraid, because the Minister is proposing yet another tough and cold arrangement that is setting itself back in a certain period of time. All parties in the Lower House indicate: if there are still people who are diagnosed with Q fever, then they still need to receive the compensation. And what does the Minister say? I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u160	I have explained why there should be a restriction on such an arrangement, also to determine which groups are involved. I also wanted us not to spend another ten years studying a situation. That's why I combined a period with the epidemic. That is why this arrangement, for this group of people, is with one enlargement, which I have just mentioned in the direction of Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u161	I'm really stunned. People died or got sick to death. They suffer from Q fever. All the words of sympathy I heard from the Minister in his introduction are worthless if it turns out that if people are still diagnosed, they will no longer be admitted to the scheme. I heard the Minister in one or two cases, but we have read documents showing that as many as 200 to 300 cases can be diagnosed. The whole Chamber has made a point of this. So I say to the Minister: you cannot leave these people in the cold. You can't stay blunt and hypothermia. You must act. I ask the Minister to honour all those cases that are still coming up in the coming years with compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u162	That is precisely where I have just made a comment towards Mr Raemakers. If the screening will reveal that there is another patient or two patients I think it is really about a very single patient; I don't think it's about large groups that haven't been diagnosed before or that have been misdiagnosed, while there is a relationship with the epidemic from 2007-2010, then I think that someone should be able to report to the Ministry of Science. Then I'll make sure his letter is brought to the attention of the medical committee. That is an extension of what I mentioned earlier by letter, because I believe that the gesture of recognition should be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u163	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u164	The Minister keeps repeating that there would be 1 or 2 cases, but we read documents that deal with 200 to 300 cases. I say to the Minister that he must ensure that he does not remain so cold, but that he opens up the scheme to all cases that still come to light. He has to promise that to the Chamber, because everyone in his contribution has indicated that they want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u165	It's not my intention to be cold or cold. I am concerned that I do not use big words and that I am exactly what I am. There are many people listening here who are very interested in the regulation and the situation, and I can understand that very well. So what I'm trying to do is formulate exactly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u166	I don't understand the Minister. No way. He himself states that he really wants to give that gesture to all the people involved in the epidemic. Then why doesn't he? Let me mention the figures for 2012. In 2012, there were 66 reported infections. That's three to four times higher than average, so that epidemic hadn't gotten worse by then. That's because the Q-fever bacteria can stay in the air for years and has its effect for a very long time. With this figure in mind, is the Minister not prepared to drop that deadline and give that gesture to the whole group? It's not about thousands of patients. It's probably dozens of patients, but those dozens of patients have the same right as those 2,000 others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u167	If a patient reports and the doctor says that the infection and the Q fever are related to the epidemic of the period 2007-2011, then I think a patient should be included for that gesture of recognition. But I really have to refer to the letter and the arrangement as I have offered to you, with one clarification as I have just said in the direction of Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u168	In 2012 the number of infections was much higher after 2011 than before the epidemic started, before 2005. Those are the hard numbers. Then the Minister can't say with dry eyes that with the deadline from 2007 to 2011, he actually has almost all patients except perhaps one high exception. No, there are certainly dozens and perhaps even more than 100 patients who are not in the picture for that gesture and should be entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u169	If, in the screening of chronic Q-fever, we get a picture of those patients and it is related to the epidemic from 2007-2011, I have already said that there is a possibility to send a letter. Then I'll refer that to the medical committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u170	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u171	Finally. Isn't that a fact? The Q-fever epidemic is caused by goat farming. The enormous numbers of animals and the massive emissions of Q-fever bacteria have caused all these thousands of sick people. That's a process that's gone through so far. There's no discussion about that, is there? Then we can start millimeters over date x or y, but just make a good gesture when you make a gesture, I'd like to say finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u172	I do not intend to take away the suffering I would love it if it could be done, but I am trying to ease the suffering for a large group of people with the financial gesture for recognition. But I do want to relate it to the epidemic of the period 2007-2011.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u173	I have the same questions. The Minister states that he wants to relate it to the epidemic of the period 2007-2011, but time is moving forward. We're in 2019 now and next year it's 2020. People are still diagnosed with Q fever. It is becoming more and more complicated to indicate exactly when the infection has occurred. Surely it is a question of a generous hand sticking out to people who have been duped by something they don't have any part in? We can say that we are going to make a gesture and that we are not going to talk about the year anymore? It can then be at the end of 2006 and also 2012. Mr Van Gerven just came up with figures. Then it is a generous gesture to say: we are now so far in the time when we are not going to look back to the epidemic, but to take the period a little longer? Then we will come up with a gesture and also with a piece of satisfaction for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u174	I believe that this period has already been extended, because quite a bit of the epidemic has already come to a conclusion in 2010. That's why another year was taken, 2011. There is also room on the side of the budget. It's not a maximum of 15,000, but 15,000 per patient, per next of kin. This is the arrangement and I think we should stick to it, with the one exception that I have just named in the direction of Mr Raemakers. It has really been the intention of the cabinet to relate to the 2007-2010 epidemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u175	I would like to ask the Minister: what is he afraid of? What is he afraid of coming at him if we start looking at infections in 2006 or 2012? Then it is a matter of reaching out and saying: you have neither part nor part of the situation, so do we make a gesture to you as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u176	In this case, I should like to confine myself to the arrangements we have made. I think there are also situations of Q fever before 2006 and after 2012. The scheme we wanted to make is really related to the major outbreak, to that epidemic. We want to make a financial gesture for this group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u177	I would like to continue with this, because on the other hand, the Minister does say that this has the full support of the CDA that people from, in particular, the risk groups are being screened. There's gonna be someone coming out of there who turns out to have Q fever, too. Once again, I do not think it can be explained that we are going to double standards and say: that is a pity, because the regulation is now closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u178	Well, then maybe I didn't express myself very well. The people with chronic Q fever that we encounter in the screening in the coming period fall into the category. 'Cause of course, we do that screening to track people down. We all hope it's very few people. But if there is anyone in the group of screened persons to whom it is granted that there is a relationship with the epidemic from 2007-2011, such a person should be able to send a letter to the Ministry. Then I'll have the medical committee look into that and there'll have to be room for the same gesture, which is to acknowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u179	Mrs Dik-Faber also pointed out that it is becoming increasingly difficult for people to prove the relationship, because in the meantime we are eight years ahead of 2011. What's to be done about that? I see that a large group can fall between shore and ship. At least I can't explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u180	I don't think it's a big group. It's a single person, I think. But I wouldn't miss it. That is why I made the point against Mr Raemakers to extend the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u181	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u182	It has also been mentioned that there may have been effects afterwards, i.e. in 2012 or in 2013. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to look at this and take those people with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u183	I have now explained how the regulation works and what kind of enlargement I would like to make before that. Mr. Chairman. I still have Mr Raemakers' question about the position of children with Q fever. I think that research is important. I have just said it in the direction of Mr Van Gerven: I think it is important that we pay attention to the position of children with Q fever and that research is carried out. The ZonMw programme also provides a budget for this. Then the point of the medical examiners of the UWV. Mr Raemakers' question was to ensure that the medical examiners are better acquainted with the recognition and recognition of the consequences of Q fever. I talked to Q-support about this, because I think it's important that the knowledge available at Q-support, and perhaps the knowledge available at Q-ustion, is well shared with UWV. I understand that the intention is to set up a sounding board group involving a delegation from the UWV. That's a Q-support sounding board group. I know that organization of the UWV a little bit, so I'm willing to look actively at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u184	Mr. Chairman. Thank you again for this commitment. I think it's very important. I would like to return to the children and to the research that will be done in children who may also have Q fever in the coming years, or find that they have Q fever. I think it is very important, if children become ill or if there is any suspicion that something might be Q fever, to monitor those children very closely and to monitor very closely how we can provide them with good care. We have specialized places in the Netherlands where they are good at caring for children. When it comes to the health component, can the Minister promise that he will monitor children well and take good care of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u185	I think it's important to do that. I also intend to provide you with a first progress report by the summer, in which I deal with the implementation of the scheme we are discussing tonight, but also with regard to what research is being carried out and what progress is being made on monitoring and screening. I would like to report on its progress to show that the cabinet and we are also aware that you think this is the way to leave this issue. And that we remain involved, both with the adults and with the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u186	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u187	And when it comes to the care component: is the Minister sure that there is always specific care tailored to Q fever in children, so child-oriented care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u188	I know that when people come out of screening with forms of chronic Q-fever, specialists are ready, I'm saying it's a little too domestic in different hospitals. And I will be informed whether this also applies to younger patients and see what is necessary for that. I intend to go back to that in the report I just mentioned. I have answered some of Mr Moorlag's questions. Mr Moorlag has also asked for independent investigations in order to assess the damage in each individual case. In fact, it follows from the argument I made earlier: I believe that we want to make that financial gesture on the one hand; on the other hand there are the legal procedures. A question for an independent examination of individual cases in order to assess the compensation per person should not be answered on the part of the government, but on the part of the judge. So when it comes to compensation... I have to concentrate on that financial gesture tonight. In the meantime, I have also answered some of Mrs Ellemeet's questions. Mrs Ellemeet has also asked if I am prepared to have a conversation with young people who have Q fever. Oh, yeah. I've had conversations with Q-uestion before. I also told the association Q-uestion that I would like to continue the conversation. If in a follow-up interview other patients want to participate in the conversation, they are invited to do so. The same applies to young people. I will set up a conversation with a number of young people to look at the consequences of Q fever for their lives, for their studies, for their work. Mr. Chairman. Then towards Mrs Dik-Faber. She has made an appeal to implement the scheme quickly. I'd really like that. The intention is to be able to deposit as much money as possible into the account before the summer, 22 weeks after 31 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u189	You thought you answered the questions of GroenLinks, but there is still a list of animals, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u190	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I also had a question about the alert consultation set up by the Minister with his colleague from LNV. I asked whether the impact of mega-stables would also be taken into account as a risk for the outbreak of an animal disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u191	That alert consultation varies from one region to another. Where there are more stables, the consultation will also be more focused on this. Where more animals are kept, GPs and GGDs will be more focused on them than in other areas. So much for my knowledge. I would like to answer more specific questions from Mrs Ellemeet, but then I have to go back to the people who sit at the table at the alert meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u192	My angle is like a different one. I understand, of course, that the doctors involved are well aware and are particularly alert when there are more intensive livestock farms. But here's what's important to me. The fact that there is intensive livestock farming and that there are mega stables increases the risk. Only that fact increases the risk of the outbreak of diseases. Is that part of the risk analysis? So that is different from indicating whether there is an outbreak and then good action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u193	I assume that this requires extra alertness from general practitioners or people working at the GGD in areas where such large-scale livestock farming is involved. Let me check that out. Then I shall inform Mrs Ellemeet. I think it's a good question. If the answer isn't precise enough, I'd like to improve on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u194	Do you mean in the second term or in the letter you write in the progress report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u195	I think I'm involved in the progress report. I'll make sure it's delivered to your room at the latest during the summer break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u197	In the direction of Mrs Dik-Faber, the question of the number of applications remains. We had estimated it would be 1,000. It's gonna be 2,000 now. She asked if I could explain. It has always been estimates and estimates. We thought it would be 1,000 applications. Now there are 2,000 applications. I will include in the progress report how many cases there may be an allocation and how many times there will be a rejection. I will also mention how many times there has been an objection or appeal. So I can tell you the facts. Then there is the question of how the Minister will guarantee that the screening that will take place through the general practitioners will be covering. I believe that is the word used by Mrs Dik-Faber. We start at the core of where the Q-fever epidemic took place. That's where we're gonna screen patients first. It goes through the GPs. At first we thought this could be done through the specialists, but direct contact between the citizen and specialist is much less intensive than between the citizen and the general practitioner. That's why we chose the GP. That's more practical. That's gonna start soon, too. It's not just gonna start in Q2, as I mentioned earlier in the letter. We're gonna start in the next week. We start with a group of 14 general practitioners with a population of order size 40,000 patients. We then look at the consequences and from there we work on other groups where necessary. As has been said, this is done on the basis of the diagnostic codes available to the general practitioners. If necessary and the effects are such that a screening program shows that someone is infected, specialists in a hospital are ready to treat people for the consequences of Q fever. Then there is the question of what Q-support 2.0 is going to do in concrete terms. The core of the new assignment is that Q-support patients will be carefully transferred to the municipality of origin for further guidance. Q-support 2.0 then assists the professionals of this municipality. They act as a support and advice point and as a task force for all professionals who play a role in advising and guiding Q-fever patients. Then the warm transfer: how can you best guarantee it? The transfer is better in one municipality than in the other. That's why I wrote a letter together with Q-support to all the municipalities to make sure that the transfer goes well. I thought your room saw that letter. Let me assume that I am referring to the progress report I have just promised you on this point. Then I come to Mrs van den Berg's speech. This also applies to the fact that most of the questions have been answered by now, but a single one is still open. Is it true that the gesture doesn't affect the assets in box 3 and the rent allowance? That's right. I was just taking a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u198	Apparently, there was still a question left. Go ahead, Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u199	Indeed, an important question had remained. Does the Minister have the idea that insurers and agencies à la UWV are sufficiently focused on the diagnosis of Q fever? Are people there sufficiently understood and adequately supervised? Is the Minister getting any signals that it's in order, or should it be even better? Doesn't he have those signals? Would he like to light his light? Those are my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u200	I thought I answered that question, but then I haven't been clear enough. There is an aperte will at the UWV to use the knowledge of Q-support and Q-uestion. A soundboard group of Q-support has been set up, in which a representative of the UWV will participate. On the medical committee is a member of the UWV. I also said: because I know the UWV organization, I want to promote that knowledge from practice is used by the insurance experts at UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u201	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer; it is enlightening. I'm sorry I missed it for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u202	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg asked the following question: the CDA understands that there are a number of specific therapies that lead to more quality of life in Q-fever patients; is the scientific basis ready and has the Quality Institute advised? I'll have to check. I thought the scientific basis was not yet ready, but I will make sure that this is mentioned in the aforementioned report. Mrs Van den Berg, as Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned in her speech, made a point about the WMO applications. I sent the letter to the municipalities to ensure that the knowledge of Q-support lands well with the municipalities. I will continue to work to ensure that the connection between Q-support and the municipalities remains good and strong. So much for Mrs van den Berg's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u203	Just a moment, because on my list, the point of basic insurance is still open. But you're talking about your own list, Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u204	At least I had on my list that as far as we know there is still research on chronic Q fever but not on Q-fever fatigue syndrome. In our view, it would be good to continue monitoring the whole group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u205	Also when it comes to Q-fever fatigue syndrome, a lot of research has already been done and this is incorporated into the directive that is drafted for that purpose. So a lot of research has been done on that. I see now that I have not yet answered a question from Mrs Van den Berg. That is the question whether I am prepared to set up a national centre for zoonoses. That's about the support point that should be ready in 48 hours. The method that we now know between general practitioners, GGD and RIVM is so active that the setting up of a separate support point is now not necessary. When an outbreak is imminent, the support point in the region concerned can be set up very often in a particular region by the GGD. If it is necessary to create a rural structure, we are in a position to move and I will ensure that it is organised through the RIVM, to set up such a support point quickly. Mr Rutte asked when the benefit would be paid. I have now given an answer to that. Mr Rutte stressed the importance of continuing research. He also talked about the screening by RIVM and the directive that goes with it. He said that it should not only be a paper directive, which I fully agree with him. I think it is important to start this screening soon. As has already been said, this is also being started quickly. I think that could be this week and otherwise next week. Mrs Agema asked for the amount of €15,000 to be based on. That is what I have been talking about. I have also taken up the fact that it is a gesture and not compensation. Mrs Agema also asked why a gesture was not offered for recognition for acute Q fever. The establishment of the gesture for recognition is such that we want to set it up for long and serious consequences. This applies to people with chronic Q-fever or QVS or similar. Those are the different groups. So it is not for people who have only had it very briefly or perhaps not at all. Then the point of petting the lamb. When petting a lamb there is a livestock farming with a public function. Then there's no need for warning signs. In another case, yes. Warning signs are placed at companies with the infected status Q fever. Since May 2016, there are no companies with the infected status Q fever. Mrs Agema also asked whether there were any guarantees that the Netherlands could be kept Q-fever-free. Such a guarantee cannot be given. Experience shows that in the Netherlands a single Q-fever occurs every year, but at least we do not want to repeat an epidemic of magnitude like that in the period 2007-2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u206	I always want to ensure that all questions are answered. Mrs Agema had another question about the exemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u207	Mr President, I think the answer is rather poor. I have asked a whole series of questions to the Minister and then it is: well, that €15,000 is based on nothing, we do not count the acute Q fever and the signs were later placed in the fields. At the time, I proposed doing so on behalf of my group. That proposal was rejected. I asked the Minister to consider how he looks back at the time. Many later signs were placed, but not when the epidemic had been going on for a long time. That's what I asked. I didn't ask you to give me a quick answer, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, bang-boom, We are carefully preparing these kinds of debates. I don't really want to be treated like this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u208	And your specific question to the Minister is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u209	I have asked whether there is research and treatment and whether there is money available for the people with these diseases, what that looks like in our country, how it is designed. I asked him whether warning signs should not always be placed at livestock farms. I've been asking so much and I've just been cleaned off and served off. I'm disappointed about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u210	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u211	Mr. Chairman. I thought I had answered questions about research and treatment in the last hour in the direction of several other speakers. On the warning signs, I have answered what I have been able to find in the time between Mrs Agema's question and now. But I would like to be prepared to light my light on that in my own department and, if necessary, in the department of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u212	Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u213	I had also asked the Minister for consideration. For example, I was talking about a 2009 motion proposing that the companies affected should be marked so that people who went cycling in the region or went out for a day would be warned. None of that was necessary at that time. My question to the Minister was how he looks back on that with the wisdom of today. I think that is an important question, because it was dealt with quite carelessly at the time, but now such a question is also dismissed as: smash boom, done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u214	I'd be very sorry to hear that. I think I have focused this evening on the subject of the debate: the gesture of financial recognition. To be honest, I was not ready for further consideration, but I would like to try to say something more from the point of view of public information. I'd like to do that. I would like to offer this in writing first in a progress report. If that is what the discussion is about, I am happy to be prepared to do so. The subject is important enough for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u215	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u216	The Minister can frame today's debate as 'we were only talking about the financial regulation', but of course the Chamber is talking about its own input. The moment I request another debate on the Q fever and those reflections, I will not have such a debate. I'm allowed to ask all the questions I want to ask here. I'm allowed to ask the Minister about such a reflection. So I find it really ridiculous that the Minister has been so limited in preparing himself for this debate. And when it comes to the financial regulation, I asked the Minister how he got that €15,000, and he doesn't really have an answer to that either. It's purely a blow in the air. No one knows what that €15,000 is based on, not even the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u217	Yeah, but that's actually my line. That €15,000 is not based on a particular scheme that we know from the past. I told you that we determined that amount on the basis of the budget available and the number of prospective applicants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u218	In any case, I wholeheartedly accept the commitment that he will return to my questions in a letter or a progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u219	In any case, thanks to the Minister for coming back in writing to our question about the therapies, namely whether they are sufficiently substantiated and whether they are included in basic insurance. Thank you also for saying that a practical support point, for example at the GGD, can be set up quickly if necessary. But we also had the question of whether the patient perspective has been sufficiently taken into account in the protocols. That question is still open for us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u220	I thought that patient protocol was taken well by now, but I'll double-check it. I will then include that answer in that progress report. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u221	I'm looking at the members. I understood that there was some need for a few moments of suspension. We'll do five minutes, because people have been waiting a long time, or it'll be too late. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for five minutes and then we're gonna do the second part of the Chamber. In that section, Members of Parliament shall speak for two minutes and, if necessary, make motions. And the government will respond to these motions again. That is always the second part of a debate, let me say to the public. But you have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u222	There was still a question about the goat farmers who do not vaccinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u223	The waivers. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u224	I don't have the right note on me, but there is one company that has been exempted from the vaccination obligation. That company is under increased control of the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u225	Well, Mr. Chairman. Shouldn't the Minister think that that's just unacceptable? Surely such a company cannot remain in business if it can spread a disease that could lead to death?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u226	No. I think it is precisely because of the increased control of the NVWA that a reasonable and acceptable method of working has been found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u227	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. No, I'll make it seven minutes and suspend the meeting until 10:00 p.m. Then we proceed with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u228	We shall continue with the debate. From the side of the Chamber there is a slight change in the order of speakers, because I am the first to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u229	Mr. Chairman. I'll start by reading four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that under the current scheme only patients who contracted Q fever between January 2007 and December 2011 are eligible for a financial compensation of €15,000;]] [[Observed that people also experienced Q fever in 2005 and 2006 and after December 2011, with similar consequences and similar suffering;]] [[considers that all Q-fever victims should be eligible for financial compensation from 2005 onwards;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the financial regime to patients who have so far experienced Q fever and to reopen the application procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u230	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that under the current regime Q-fever patients receive a financial allowance of €15,000;]] [[noting that for many Q-fever patients this amount does not compensate for the damage suffered;]] [[Considering that according to the Q-uestion Foundation an amount of €30,000 for 95% of the victims is sufficient to close the book;]] [[calls on the government to increase the financial compensation from €15,000 to €30,000 per person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that under the current regime Q-fever patients receive a financial allowance of €15,000;]] [[noting that for many Q-fever patients this amount is far from paying for the damage suffered;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee to provide financial compensation on the basis of tailor-made compensation for those who have suffered disproportionate damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-54]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u231	And then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas little is known about the effects of Q-fever infection in children;]] [[calls on the government to release additional funds for research into Q fever in children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u232	In conclusion, I would like to say to the Minister: show a little more flexibility and heart for the Q-fever patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u233	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u234	Thank you, Mr President. I thought this was a very heavy debate, a difficult debate. As a politician in this house, I think you have a rather difficult debate, but this was not so much a political debate as a human being. First of all, I would like to thank all the people who have taken the trouble to visit this debate today for being there. And I want to wish those who need it a lot of strength, too, as a human being. That's the thing before. When I look at the debate, I am very pleased with the commitment I received about the UWV and also about the position of children. Those are commitments that people, I think, can really do with. But there are also two things that I am not satisfied with. First of all, these are the people who got infected before 2007. To make that clear, we really are not talking about people who got infected in 1995, because indeed, it does not go back that far. But we just know that in 2005 there were detectable infections on farms and that people got sick. On that, but also on what you are going to do about future cases, Mrs Dik-Faber will be tabling a motion shortly. This motion is tabled not only on behalf of the Christian Union, but also on behalf of D66 and the CDA. We hope that this motion will enable us to take another step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u235	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Or would you like to wait a little longer? Mr Moorlag will have the floor first and you will have the time to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u236	Mr. Chairman. I find this a disappointing debate. The Minister shows that he has all the qualities that whipped cream also has: the harder you knock, the stiffer he gets and the more firm he gets in his points of view. I'm very sorry about that. I think that people here are being seriously wronged. I am sorry that the Minister really takes firm positions. I believe that there should be tailor-made work to ensure proportionality between the suffering, suffering and damage of the people and the level of compensation. That's why the next motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u237	Before you read it, I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u238	Mr Moorlag has a great deal to say to this Minister. But if Mr Moorlag thinks it is so important, I would like to ask him why the previous cabinet, in which the Labour Party was in, only took the trouble to come up with a settlement when it was outgoing, in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u239	These are typical you-bricks that I don't think we should be doing in this debate. We now have, at this moment, this evening in this Chamber to make a political assessment of the situation as it is today, based on the facts and the circumstances as they are today. The PvdA does not run away from its responsibility, but wants to take responsibility. If you look at what the effects are for the people, then you now find that some of the people in the distance are not sufficiently compensated. That's why I'm doing the words like I'm doing them. For really, with the greatest agility of mind, you cannot explain to ordinary people that they should take risks and bear the consequences of something that they themselves had no influence on, while the government has not acted adequately and proportionally. This has been established by the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u240	I wasn't the one who started you-baking. I think that was someone else in this debate. I note that the situation in 2017 was similar to that of today. We're dealing with Q-fever patients now. In 2017, we knew that too. So if the Labour Party thought it was so important, she could have come up with a better arrangement. This cabinet did. We've received an arrangement from the previous cabinet. This cabinet has said: we're gonna put another shovel on top, we're gonna double the money. That's what happened. Of course I understand people's pain very well and of course it will never be enough to meet pain and sorrow. But to be very critical of this cabinet and of this minister, when in the previous cabinet you have only taken the trouble to come up with an arrangement that has improved this cabinet even further, I simply do not think that it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u241	In itself, the scheme that exists for a number of cases is an adequate one. But as Mr Van Gerven also said: for a number of hundreds of people it is simply not proportional. You're gonna have to make that balance right now. I've been a union manager for years. We made a social plan with an arrangement in it. That arrangement was decisive, but it always contained a final clause, and that was the hardness clause. If everything went according to the rules but at the end people were treated unfairly, then you had the space to remove that injustice. That is my appeal tonight: let that be established independently and expertly and then go on the basis of discretion, not because you are legally obliged or because you accept guilt, be more generous to the people who are not treated proportionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u242	Thank you. Will you recite your motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u243	Mr President, the motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Q fever has caused serious health damage, suffering and suffering;]] [[Whereas it is a great injustice to allow the resulting material and intangible damage to be incurred at the risk and expense of the victims;]] [[Calls on the Government to have the victims of Q-fever and victims' survivors individually examined and determined individually, in an independent and expert manner, the compensation proportionate to the suffering, suffering and damage suffered, and to notify the Court of Justice thereof before 1 October 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u245	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u246	Thank you, Mr President. I just became a mom, so I just had to go crawl. I have four motions, so no introduction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of goats kept in the Netherlands increased by 45% compared to five years ago;]] [[Whereas economic interests have taken precedence over public health and animal welfare for a long time;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a national moratorium on the construction and expansion of goat stables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an independent investigation into the conduct of the government in relation to the Q-fever epidemic is still lacking;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage an independent investigation and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to extend the financial compensation to all victims diagnosed with Q fever and their relatives, as well as to open up new applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-58]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-59]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u247	Then my final motion, but not the least important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Ombudsman concludes in several reports that public apology would be valuable to the victims;]] [[calls on the government to apologize to the victims of Q fever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u248	I am considering a roll-call vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u249	Thank you. Then I'll look at Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u250	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin by addressing the people who have come here and who have been struggling for so long with what we are talking about here for a few hours. We are talking about this for a few hours and tomorrow we will have another debate, but you are going home with the same illness and with the same problems. I'd like to think about that. I missed the courage of the Minister to admit that politics is partly responsible for the fact that it has taken so long for us to have this debate now. It's not about the guilt question. It's about the involvement of politics, whether you were in the coalition or not. GroenLinks was not in the coalition and yet I firmly believe that we dare to name it with each other. We politicians have partly caused this to take so long, whether you were in the cabinet or not. I think that's important to me to name. And then it's not about the guilt question. The point is that we collectively bow our heads down and acknowledge that. Mr President, I would very much like to mention that here. Furthermore, with her question 'what are you afraid of', Mrs Dik made it very clear that there is no need to be afraid and to restrict this regulation that we now have. We are not advocating that no one here should open it up until the 1980s, but rather to look realistically at the period that we should recognize. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that intensive livestock farming increases the risk of zoonoses;]] [[calls on the Government to make intensive livestock farming part of the risk analysis structure of animal diseases such as Q fever, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and because of time I'm going to read it to you right away. It is the motion already announced by Mr Raemakers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the financial compensation is intended only for chronic Q-fever patients infected between 2007 and 2011 and diagnosed before 1 October 2018;]] [[Whereas, to date, new diagnoses of chronic Q fever are still being made;]] [[whereas the Cabinet indicates that it is important that we find people with an undiagnosed chronic Q fever as soon as possible and that a screening programme is drawn up for this purpose;]] [[considers that new patients who emerge through the screening programme or otherwise are entitled to satisfaction;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify whether and how it is possible to extend the scheme to include, first, those who have already been diagnosed with chronic Q-fever, QVS or a QVS similar disease before 2007 and after 2011, and, secondly, those who have been diagnosed after 1 October 2018 or are still going to be diagnosed with chronic Q-fever, QVS or a QVS similar disease, due to a previous infection;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how large these groups are and how best to reach them, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Minister for taking action in relation to the UWV and the municipalities, about the Wmo for the support, and that he will come back again whether the therapies are sufficiently substantiated and are to be included in the basic insurance. As Mr Dik-Faber points out, we have also supported her motion, because we would like to see the regulation as it is now more comprehensively formulated. Finally, I have a motion, which was supported by Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Arno Rutte and Mrs Ellemeet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, in the event of a subsequent outbreak of a zoonoses, the patient perspective should be adequately included in the protocols and that it should also be dealt with in practice;]] [[Whereas there will then be a need for a practical support point that can be ready within 48 hours in the event of an outbreak to answer questions from individual citizens and professionals and to assist citizens with symptoms of disease;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of developing a practical support point that could be established within 48 hours in the event of an outbreak of zoonoses in order to assist citizens with disease symptoms and professionals, and to inform the House of Representatives for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Arno Rutte and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u253	Mr. Chairman. Some of my colleagues have already said that we are not closing the book today, of course. Patients don't just heal, stay sick and continue to have the consequences. The suffering is certainly not gone. That, by definition, leads to an unintended feeling for everyone who is here in a debate like this. I understand that very well. It is very important that we actually do what we can do today, that the regulation that is now before us is implemented very quickly, and that people can quickly face the promised amount. The Minister has promised that, and I am pleased about that. I am pleased that the Minister has promised that people who have experienced the consequences at a later date will be able to turn to the Ministry. I think that's very good. I also welcome the commitment that screening is now really going to start. The VVD will also screen that very well, because that should not remain a paper letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u254	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I usually thank the Minister for his reply at the moment, but I am a little disappointed. The Minister limited the answer to only the questions relating to the financial regulation in relation to Q fever. I believe that, as a parliamentarians, I was allowed to ask a wide range of questions on the subject, including its content, and I had to do so. It's questions that live. When you get sick, you have questions like, "How's my future going, where's it going, is research going?" It's about signs. Why weren't these signs placed then and is that being considered now? So I do appreciate the Minister's undertaking to return to those substantive questions, but I would have preferred to have just answered them. I have one motion, which concerns the point of acute Q fever. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mortality rate of 95 includes 9 people who have died of acute Q fever;]] [[calls on the government to grant the compensation of €15,000 to patients or survivors who have suffered acute Q fever,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u256	I'd be happy to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u257	Mr. Chairman. I would like to give the various motions an appreciation. The motion in part No. 53 calls on the government to broaden the financial regime. I reject that motion because I believe that the financial gesture should be related to the epidemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u258	I will allow the Minister to speak on this point, and then you will have the floor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u259	That was my verdict on this motion, in part No. 53.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u260	Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u261	Mr. Chairman. A predictable answer from the minister, but in October 2012 there was a Q-fever outbreak in farms with 900 goats. In October 2012, 31 companies were not yet Q-fever free. How can a minister say that he's only looking at the epidemic, and then laying a cesorship at 2011? In 2012, the epidemic was not over. Will the Minister go into that again? Would he like to jump over his own shadow again, as it is called here, and say, "Listen, we have to get rid of that puppetry. I'm just going to open up this arrangement so that all those people can go home tonight with some satisfaction, and so that we don't leave 200 more people in the dark."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u262	I'm not from the puppet gallery. The operative part refers to people who have "to date have contracted Q fever." I made an explicit point in my speech in the first term that there must be a relationship between the epidemic on the one hand and the financial gesture on the other. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u264	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 54 I also advise against. This is about increasing the amount of the allowance from €15,000 to €30,000 per person. I don't believe the suffering can be caught in money. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 55 is about setting up an independent committee to look at tailor-made compensation. We're not talking about compensation here. The scheme is intended to be a gesture for recognition. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 56. It calls on the government to release additional funds for research into Q fever in children. I think that is an appropriate point. You could say that we are already putting extra energy and additional resources into that. But given the importance of the subject, I wanted to give this motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 57. It concerns the individual examination of what compensation is proportionate to the suffering. I'm gonna dissuade these, just like the previous motions. It is not a gesture to be examined individually and to have compensation determined individually. Then motion No 58, which calls for a national moratorium on the construction and expansion of goat stables. I advise against this motion, because the province has jurisdiction to do so and not to the Empire. The motion in part No. 59 requests that an independent investigation be initiated. Research has already been done; I refer to that of the Van Dijk Committee and the Ombudsman. I therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 60, which calls for financial compensation to be extended to all victims and for the opening up of new applications. I advise against this motion. The gesture is intended for people with severe and long-term consequences of the epidemic. It's not for acute Q fever, so it's not for open-ended regulation. Then the motion to part No. 61. It calls on the government to apologize. I dissuade this motion because I want to choose my own words. I am committed to expressing my condolences to all those who are still suffering the terrible, adverse consequences of the Q-fever epidemic. I hate that and I bow my head to it. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 62. It calls on the government to make intensive livestock farming part of the risk analysis structure of animal diseases. I'm giving Court judgment to this motion. In fact, the risk analysis analyses all the zoonotic signals. No distinction is made between the type of livestock holding, so these are large and small holdings. But given the importance, also for the future, to continue to understand animal diseases such as Q fever, I give Chamber judgment to this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 63. At first glance, that seems to be a research motion, because it says "to map... and also to investigate." I do not have much objection to getting the facts straight, but there are a few sharp points in this motion. This could lead us to work towards an open-ended arrangement when we have mapped this out. I expressly do not intend to do that. I also miss the link with the epidemic in the text of the motion. I have argued throughout the evening that the epidemic must be the reason for the financial gesture. I don't see that in here. I'd like to make that connection when the motion is being drafted. I don't want to prelude to the outcome either. One of the recitals states that new patients who emerge through the screening programme or otherwise are entitled to compensation. If I have to say 'we're going to get the facts straight and then expand the arrangement', if that relationship is established, then I'm going to advise against the motion. If I may interpret her as I have just done, so "we're going to get the facts straight, but we don't want an open end, and we're going to connect with the epidemic and not prelude to the outcome," then I'm prepared to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u265	The three signatories have tabled this motion for a reason. The motion explicitly aims to do more than just put together a list of people who are now excluded from the scheme. But I have also heard the Minister say a number of things, for example: I think it is okay if there is a link to the period between 2007 and 2011, when there was a real epidemic. As my colleague Rens Raemakers has just said, we are not talking about 1995, but about the pre-emption to the epidemic and its tail. People are still being diagnosed. So I really want to get this all straightened out and talk to my fellow applicants. We will see if we can amend the motion and then perhaps what the Minister's opinion is. I just need to take it with me, because I think it's important that we really take a step forward for the people who are now out of the boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u266	Mr Raemakers also wanted to ask a question about this. You want to wait for the Minister's answer first? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u267	I hear from Mrs Dik-Faber that she needs to talk to the proposers. Of course, I would very much like to offer that space, because I would like to get the facts straight. But I find it really complicated to look at the period before 2007, for example, because the epidemic really belongs to the period 2007-2011. That is why I made it a little more general by saying that I do want to link it to the epidemic, but that I do not want to prelude on the results and do not want to make open-ended arrangements. If, on the basis of the facts, you want to have the debate on this, I am happy to be prepared to do so. But then you know exactly what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u268	I would like to put another question on two points. First of all, the point when the epidemic has started. We can prove that something happened in 2005 in a number of companies. We can prove that. In the end, that has led to something we call an epidemic. Can the Minister, if he interprets it that way, perhaps get out of his way with that? My second question concerns the open-ended scheme. If at the time of this outbreak you were a child of 5 or 6 years old and now you are 15 or 16 years old, then it is possible that when you grow up you will notice something of these consequences. That is what several groups have said today: you have to look at the position of children. Actually, I'd think it was pretty harsh if you were actually being punished for being a kid. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u269	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u270	I have just said that I would like to add to this motion the point that there must be a link with the epidemic. It starts for me in 2007 and not 2005. I think I can explain that with the facts you're asking me to investigate. That's one way. On the other hand, there is the point of children who could be screened for the consequences of Q fever. On this point, I said earlier in the direction of Mr Raemakers that I would be happy to assess a letter at the time of such a situation. I think that is an exceptional case; I do not know whether children are, because it can also be very good in adults. This means that I would like to receive that letter and submit it to a medical committee to see if such a person can appeal to the financial gesture. I want to be very precise about that. So I insist that, if this is an investigative motion for setting out the facts, which have no open ends, which connects with the epidemic and which does not prelude to the results, I would like to be prepared to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u271	Can I conclude, therefore, that the Minister is keeping open that more people may be covered by the scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u272	That conclusion is too early at the moment, because it is necessary to get the facts straight. I'm willing to do that. So I do not want to prelude on the results; I think I have said this four times now. So I do not want to say that the regulation needs to be extended, other than the extension I promised to your Chamber earlier this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u273	Then there's another point that Mr. Raemakers just mentioned. In any case, we know that there have been outbreaks in 2005 and 2006. Maybe there haven't been any cases of contagion. That is a fact that can then be seen, but we would appreciate it very much if the Minister would also take that period into account in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u274	I have just said that I want to maintain this link with the epidemic and that I am therefore also willing to submit facts on this matter to you in my investigation. If I may read the motion in this way, including the remarks I have made, I shall give the motion judgment Chamber. If the proposers do not agree, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u275	There's one motion ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u276	Two more. The motion in part No. 64 calls on the government to examine the possibility of developing a practical support point in place. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. In particular, it is that establishment within 48 hours. That depends on the situation, but I want to look at that. Judgment Room. Finally, the motion in part No. 65. I'd advise against it. Acute Q fever has not been understood as a category within the financial gesture. It concerns the financial gesture on serious and long-term consequences of the disease. This is not the case in all cases of acute Q fever. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u277	Nine people are dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u278	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u279	The Minister says here that this is not one of the serious cases. A death seems to me to be the most serious case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u280	The request in the motion is: ask the government to grant compensation to patients or survivors who have suffered from acute Q fever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u281	Can the Minister also read the rest of the motion, such as the first recital?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u282	Wait a minute. The minister was in the process of answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u283	That consideration is that out of 95 deaths 9 people suffered from acute Q fever. Can he respond to that? That is the reason, and that is the conclusion. The minister isn't just going to read the dictata here, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u284	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u285	It has to focus here on a judgment on the operative part of the motion. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u286	Did that bring you to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u287	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u288	Then we have come to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-33.u289	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I have been asked by Members to speak to you. We know that you would have wished there might have been a minute's silence. This debate is not the place for that, but I would like to tell you, on behalf of Members, that they are aware of your suffering and that they are going home silently. Thank you.
