ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. Welcome to the Secretary of State for Finance, the MPs and the viewers at home. A total of nine speakers came forward. Every speaker has about four minutes. I'd like to meet with you in order to handle two interruptions in the first term. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP, who has also requested the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u2	It's time for the tax return again. Everyone gets a friendly but urgent request to participate. If you work with a boss, if you're just an employee, your tax is actually already automatically deducted and then a tax moral is guaranteed. Companies, however, but also wealthy people have to report themselves. They often do that with the help of a tax advisory office. To comply with "the rules," of course. But let us not be naive, because we also know that the tax advice practice knows exactly the ways to pay as little tax as possible and therefore very often goes over the edge of the law. And so we have a tax authority that controls well. Right? Unfortunately, it's a little different. We do have that Tax Authority, and it does identify risks, but if they are automatically spit out or ejected, they come in tray 1, tray 2, tray 3. I don't even know how you can make that up, and if you can make it up, you can defend it. But in fact everything in box 1 is controlled very well, you would say.... and that everything in 2 and 3 just disappears unseen into the basement. That's 90% of the returns. 90%. This is because there are too few people in the Tax Administration, but also because they do not give priority to it, because the control of the risky tax returns of companies, SMEs but also large companies, has been halved in five years. Five years ago, only a small 40,000 were checked, and last year, a small 20,000. So it's not a priority. Why do we look at risk declarations if we don't then check them, I'll ask the Secretary of State. How can you explain that risks are being spotted, but you're letting them go? 90% will end up in the basement. And then the Secretary of State says: I really don't need to know if 90% is brought to the basement, if the target of the recovery is achieved. With 10% control, we're bringing in 1.5 billion, and that's why we're letting go 90%. How many billions more could we have brought in if the IRS just carried out all those checks? I would say: Secretary of State, make the promise today: we're going to check all those declarations. It's a matter of priorities. Don't slow down, just settle it. That has to do with justice. I have Mrs. Kollaart's permission to read her next e-mail. "In my tax return for 2017, I entered a deduction of €70. I thought I had it, and all the little bits help. In December I received a letter of two sides. I was informed that the Tax Administration could not agree to this post and would impose a recovery. Two weeks ago I received the recovery of €17. How pathetic: choosing the easy way through control of simple tax returns and putting the hard one next to you." I agree with Mrs. Kollaart. This looks like shit! Of course, if you're not entitled to that deduction or supplement, then that money has to be returned. But if the suggestion is raised that you as a company can just walk with expensive tax advice, then we do it wrong. And here's another thing, Mr. Chairman. We had a lot of debates in the autumn about a higher tax on the energy bill and a higher tax on the daily messages, while the money is just there when you check the returns. But it's easier. It is easier to automatically knock it out of ordinary people's pockets instead of properly controlling companies. I can't and won't explain that. I ask the Secretary of State to state seriously that from this year onwards these declarations will simply be given priority and that we will simply collect those millions, billions and not permanently but continue to charge the ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer for his contribution. He's from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Trouw newspaper, a few weeks ago, on Saturday, I don't know the date from which the checks were placed on the front page of a whole group of SMEs, tens of thousands, because of the workload at the Tax Office. The Secretary of State explained this in Oral Question Time. After a risk analysis, it has been proposed at official level to say: these are not such big risks; we are not going to look at them anymore. It's about declarations from 2016. The PvdA Group does not like that signal to taxpayers. Everyone understands that not every report can be checked. Every human being understands that. That's not what the manpower is for. We should have had tens of thousands more inspectors, and we already have too few. But you'd like to have a grip and a vision of it if things go wrong. I would ask the Secretary of State to make a commitment to check, on a sample basis, with that group of SMEs in 2016, which now seems to be sidelined. This must also be done for the sense of justice. On the one hand, you have efficiency: there are the biggest risks, so that's what we're committed to. On the other hand, you also have justice: you just need to be able to be checked occasionally, even if there doesn't seem to be any risk at all. That is the first question I would like to ask the Secretary of State. The second question is more about the substantive risks. The cabinet has put forward proposals to increase the tax burden on the loans granted by directors-major shareholders to themselves through the e.g. This has been watered down a little, because then the abolition of the dividend tax did not go ahead. But at least it has been recognized as a problem. I understand from the newspaper that it is precisely this type of loan structure and that this was the risk/priority group to look at. I think there's a lot of money in that. It turns out so, because the Secretary of State himself has already indicated that he has achieved his targets. We must now be pleased that the targets have been achieved, and we are happy about that in itself, but this may also mean that there is still more to be achieved. You can say that the other way around. I would ask the Secretary of State to go into this very precisely, on the one hand, because it could really be a kind of tax structure, and that is not yet a question of borrowing very much of your own e.g. and paying very little tax again, and on the other hand because there is so much money involved. That is the second question I would like to put to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The third question concerns the number of checks. In the past, Parliament has been informed each year about the number of controls carried out on individuals, large businesses and SMEs. We have now switched to a different system, where you look more at what to collect: what will it yield; does the inspector get his money? This is also reported on, but I would also like the Chamber to know how many inspections are taking place. Over the past ten or fifteen years, that number of inspections has fallen. We know that too, because we have been reported that the years before. But now we don't have much control over that anymore. However, I would like to see whether this decline is continuing or whether it can be reversed. You can, of course, raise more money on the one hand, but on the other hand you just want to make sure that as an SME you don't get your turn only once in the eighty years and that you can calculate that it does pass by your door. The same applies to individuals. It is important for Parliament to have this information for the support of tax payments, which we pay all our collective provisions with. That is the third question I would like to put to the Secretary of State. I see "rounding off," Mr. Chairman. That's exactly what I was doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u5	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we are having a bit of an absurdist debate, because we are talking about tax returns going from tray 2 to tray 3. That gives me the association of ball-ball. At the same time, it is good that we are having this debate, because it is a good case of how risk-based supervision works in practice and whether the problems that we may see there are also related to the reorganisation and staffing. This case concerns the SME VPB declaration in 2016: 680,000. The first step is automatic risk assessment; 83% no risks, which can be eliminated, and 17% still do. And then those trays come and it goes automatically. Box 1: highest risk, highest priority, all manually check. Box three, there seems to be nothing going on, we can take it off. Box 2: unclear, again weighing the risks; go to tray 1, manually check them, or go to 3: nothing seems to be wrong. It is not really clear to me how that assessment is made in box 2. Are there any rules for that? And then we arrive in November 2018 and then there is a stock of 25,000 declarations in box 2. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, it's really absurd, but that's the way it works. Then an operational choice had to be made to divide three groups out of tray 2; whether they should go to tray 1 or to tray 3, says the Secretary of State. Was that an operational choice a consideration other than the regular consideration whether a declaration should be checked extra or not and what exactly is the difference? Does this perhaps mean that the Tax Administration is in a reorganisation and has to do with human problems and there has been a capacity problem? We know that the Secretary of State has said that supervision suffers from a lack of capacity and that if you have more staff, you could also monitor more. I have one more question, and that is what Mr Nijboer was talking about. The Secretary of State states that there were three groups in box 2. The two smaller groups were still checked manually, but the largest group concerned entrepreneurs borrowing money from their own company. They all went to tray three, take it off, it's okay. At the same time, we know that this is precisely a construction in which entrepreneurs try to postpone as long as possible tax payments or not to pay at all. And then I wonder on what basis and with what risk weighting the choice was made not to control this group. Mr Nijboer's question was correct: will there still be a random check? Finally, a number of questions about the trends that emerged from the documents. The number of book surveys at the Tax Administration decreases every year and so does the number of people involved. That could be because risk selection is improving, as the Secretary of State writes, but it can also be because there is no capacity for it. What's the deal with that, exactly? Another trend is that we have seen the correction rates rise for years. How is that possible? Does this mean that declarations are getting worse, that more mistakes are being made, and perhaps on purpose? How does the Secretary of State interpret these figures? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u7	Thank you. You're right, there's a handy button here. I would like to give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a politician, you don't have much of a reputation in this country, but when I tell you that I do tax, people look at me and think: that's actually quite heavy. I fear that I, as people, will have a problem with this evening's debate, with trays 1, 2 and 3, from now on. The tax moral is good in the Netherlands, and compared to many other countries even very good, despite our high tax rates. Paying taxes is very common in the Netherlands. But you don't have to tie the cat to the bacon, and that seems to happen. If people know there's no control, they might take risks. We must avoid that, and that is why it is not possible at all what has happened in recent years with regard to the status of the Tax Administration. Because how many times have we been standing here for a debate on the failure of the Tax Administration? And every time everyone actually predicted that we'd be there in a few weeks or months. Worse still, the current Secretary of State is not tired of saying that the leak is not yet up and there are more problems. Does it make sense, then, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss this and hold a debate on it? That is precisely what I am asking because the Secretary of State says: there will be more problems. So let's do something tonight. Last year, the entire opposition supported the Van Dijck motion, which called for the service to be a major project. That was in May 2018. And whatever you can find from the current state of the service, it hasn't gotten much better since May 2018. The problems have increased, so perhaps we can speak again tonight. Parts of the coalition were in doubt then, too. There is even someone here in our midst who made such a request in 2015, and then the problems were a lot less serious. So I can imagine that if we call on them, they're not thinking primarily of their own coalition, but of the importance of the Tax Administration and therefore of the Netherlands. So there's only one real solution, and that's to make the Tax Administration a big project. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u9	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u10	I was listening to a discussion that took place outside the microphone, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. "For those who pay a decent tax: we do not let the people who do not get away with it. And for the people who don't, we know where to find you." I'm guessing these words sound familiar to the Secretary of State. And with all these public relations employees these days, of course, you'll never know for sure, but at least I read them earlier this week in the newspaper as a statement from the Secretary of State himself. I do not call this for nothing, because these words were in the context of a wonderful milestone: the Belastingdienst's Hidden Ability team celebrated the detection of EUR 4 billion in black money. And I deliberately call this a compliment, because a lot of things do go well with the Tax Administration. I think it's okay, towards all those people who work there, to let them know. But we're also going to talk tonight about things that aren't going so well. The reason for this debate is one of them. Because, unfortunately, what I just named is in contrast to the message that led to this debate: "The tax administration lets suspicious declarations through unseen. 25,000 declarations placed in category 2.' And there's been even more appointments. If I've read it correctly, that means "in category 2" that you're going to see if it's still category 1 and still being judged by a professional expert, or that you can do it without further analysis. The numbers have just been mentioned: 2,500 of these declarations came in category 1 and the other 22,500 have been cancelled in accordance with the declaration. My question to the Secretary of State is: why is this large group of entrepreneurs borrowing money from their company not further divided? They're classified in Category 2 for a reason, aren't they? Why didn't the Secretary of State choose to take another sample from that group to see if that's true? Because I am very curious whether there is an estimate of which of these 22,500 returns could have been wrong. But then to the future, because you always have to look ahead. Looking back is good, but you have to learn from that for the future. My question is therefore what is the Secretary of State going to do to prevent further image damage. Kids often feel flawless about how serious you are when you threaten to punish them. I have some experience with that myself, and I don't always get it right. But if you're serious about it, they still have the idea of "and now we have to watch out." My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether it is credible if the Tax Administration is threatening to punish fraudsters. Or is the overall chance of getting caught so low that it doesn't make an impression? In short, I would just like us to have the same image in corporate taxation as the image that the Hidden Power team has built up. In the letter from the Secretary of State, we also see that, of course, hard work is being done to get the Tax Administration back on track, also in terms of numbers of people. But I'm guessing that if you have the people on such an executive service, you're not at the quality level yet. So my final question to the Secretary of State is whether he can give an estimate when the whole of the Tax Service can function as a proud service again, which also ensures that taxes are properly collected and that, as the Netherlands, we can simply keep our tax moral high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u11	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u12	Mr. Chairman. The problems of the Tax Administration as a result of the reorganisation are far from over. On the contrary, today's problem, like many previous problems in the Tax Administration, can be traced mainly to a lack of qualified staff. The pain of that is falling everywhere in the organization. Again, tens of thousands of tax returns from 2016 are not audited. The number of FTEs involved in book surveys has decreased by 20% and the number of book surveys at the Tax Administration in SMEs has even been halved from 40,000 to 20,000 since 2013, as we read in response to questions from the SP. The delay in recovery has increased from 5.4 to 6.5 billion in two years. I cannot separate this from all the other headache files the Tax Administration has been dealing with in recent years. It is not the first or the second, but yet another illustration of the pitiful state of the Tax Administration. A departure scheme was opened up in a long run-up to a tax administration that would have to rely much more on automation. We all know what the consequences of that have been. Unfortunately, that is not a history; the service still suffers from it. The same goes for tax morale, no doubt. If you don't check, you don't know what you're missing. What is the meaning in this context of the concept of 'target value', which is always being achieved, I ask. The shortage of highly qualified ICT staff is also a major challenge. It is precisely these people that we cannot miss now, firstly, to make a dent in the legacy problem and secondly, to restore the effectiveness and effectiveness of all processes quickly. So instead of an outflow scheme for tax officials which has cost 500 million, my party in the last General Political Reviews has just argued for an inflow scheme. That is a word joke, Mr President, but an intensification to 500 million in the Tax Administration can be transferred immediately as far as 50PLUS is concerned. This was also the case in our motion, which was co-signed by five group chairmen. The CPB said the following about this intensification in the counter-budget of 50PLUS. An intensification in the tax administration of 500 million leads to additional tax revenues of the same size. So checkout! The cabinet didn't think this heavy artillery was necessary, but we did. And we still do. We are therefore considering reposing this motion and putting it to the vote. Of course, we want to use this intensification in the context of this debate mainly for additional control capacity. Professor Kavelaars said this morning that every additional control officer has earned his salary back in no time. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I quote a piece from my contribution to the AO Tax Administration of June 2018, now eight months ago. "This Secretary of State has become much more aware of the complexity, persistence and extent of the problems facing the Tax Administration since his arrival. To get out of here, he said it would take a long time. That may be problematic, because the Chamber is breathless about the slowly escalating embarrassment at the Tax Office. No one has any illusions about an all-encompassing prestige object with which we will wash this pig. The choice of the Secretary of State for a compartmentalised and phased approach is understandable. However, words and actions must follow which give this Chamber sufficient confidence that there will be a real and demonstrable change within a reasonable period of time." Mr. Chairman. We've moved on to eight months and three or four headache records. My group's request for a change of direction is moving further and further backwards. The confidence that this change is still coming is ebbing away. The chance that more bears will appear on the road in the near future seems greater. As far as my group is concerned, it is obvious what needs to be done: the Chamber must set up the heavy artillery. It is a question of fair taxation and citizens must always be able to rely on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u13	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u14	Mr. Chairman. A good tax moral stands or falls under strict and fair enforcement. Not only because crooked taxpayers know that it does not pay to make an incorrect declaration, but also as a signal to taxpayers who always make a proper return. So we need to check the records. Mr. Chairman. I have a beautiful text here, but I can simply agree with the questions put by my fellow Members, because they are very much in line. I am going to talk not only about these questions, but also about the letter we received about the stage after that. At the first stage, it is a question of whether these attacks are being imposed and sufficiently controlled. At the next stage it is a question of whether the attacks are being collected. So we asked the Secretary of State to give us a list of the cases that are being collected. As it turns out, the total amount to be received in 2016 was 5.4 billion euros and in June 2018 it had risen to 6.5 billion euros. The delay is EUR 1.5 billion, while fewer attacks are being monitored. So the whole system of dynamic monitoring only leads to more. The deficit target was EUR 2.5 billion to EUR 3 billion, which is now being adjusted upwards by just EUR 1.5 billion. If you adjust the target upwards, you say we can be more behind. So I ask the Secretary of State not only to deal with what is going on when the attacks are being imposed, but also when the attacks are being collected. Because, Mrs Leijten has already referred to this, for people with relatively low incomes, 500 euros of bank deposits are simply laid. In fact, we're not able to maintain the batter-free foot. I'd like to come back to that one more time. But what are all these debts? I ask him that, because fortunately he does not hear that very often from the opposition, the number of bankruptcies and the number of people who enter into the debt restructuring of natural persons is the lowest in many years. There are therefore fewer and fewer people who have to pay off because of clean-up and yet this debt continues to be incurred. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know from the Secretary of State when we can get the breakdown of the EUR 6.5 billion. What's in the LIC? Those are the people and thezzp'ers. What do we have in SMEs and how many are there in large companies? Are the ETM posts included? You know, that system that already doesn't work anymore and we told the supplier that we're not going to. If they are in these posts, I ask the Secretary of State. How exactly do people's debts in debt restructuring get charged? Is the delay in recovery due to dynamic monitoring itself? I have to say that some of the tax authorities are e-mailing me and saying that it is called "dynamic manipulation." Because the monitoring is something other than recovery. In recent weeks we also saw something else: in internal affairs, in a management update of 11 January 2019, we read that recruitment has stopped. Does that apply only to bailiffs, or does that apply to all kinds of other forms of recruitment? There's a problem with the IRS, getting that service back on its feet. There are not enough officials for the control and for the collection. Then it would be good to know if these people will be there. Mr. Chairman. So much for the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u15	Thank you. There is still an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u16	Mr Omtzigt indicated that he could join all the questions that were asked. Does he also agree with my call to simply check the risky returns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u17	I have agreed to the questions and not yet to the calls, but I would like to know how risky declarations can be better checked than they are now. So I also just want to know how it doesn't stop me from being what it was? Bak 2 goes to Bak 3. And most of all, I am concerned with the issue of migration. We have already had half an answer to it during Question Time, but it is precisely with people who go abroad that I think it is important that they are properly checked last time. For example, for emigration, you have to pay entrepreneurs for money that was still in the company. That seems to me to be a report you always have to check, if there's anything financial in it. And I also want to know what's going on with the constructions that have just been appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u19	Yes, Mr President, this is a technical thing, but it is a measure announced by the government a few months ago. For people who have too much money in them, for example, this will be subject to additional taxation next year. I'd like to know if that solves the problem that's here. Maybe that's possible. I am therefore asking the question a little more openly than Mrs Leijten would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u20	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u21	I'm not asking the question for nothing. 90% of the declarations they themselves consider risky at the Tax Office end up in the basement. We, especially Mr Omtzigt and the coalition, must propose increases here: taxes, energy bills and daily messages. While the money can just be taken if you go after those returns. It's all about priorities, and that's why I asked that question. I hear Mr Omtzigt wants to hear from the Secretary of State first if he can. But does Mr Omtzig agree with me that it is a matter of priorities? And this is our priority. We have asked questions about the impact of the Brexit on the Tax Administration today, this is how it goes here, Chairman: we discuss some things, sometimes here, sometimes on paper, and we could read that new people are needed at the ruling team. That's the team that makes deals with new companies. New companies are coming to the Netherlands. There was additional capacity needed, and that has already been arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u23	My question is: does Mr Omtzig agree with me that you can make sure that this declaration check goes up significantly, at least when you make it a priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u24	I'd like extra priority in the book checks. That is why I support the appeal of the Labour Party to pay more attention to this. My speech was somewhat balanced, because I find that not only the declarations are lagging behind, but also the collection itself. So I want to keep that whole chain in balance. I didn't accidentally ask why there's a job vacancy summit on certain issues. I think it is sometimes in the interest of those who have a tax debt to see a bailiff. That is better than not seeing anyone for two or three years, until it has gained through dynamic monitoring in such a way that it is now applied for bankruptcy. Neither of them is fun... don't get me wrong... but sometimes human contact is pretty good. Because then the tax authorities can also see if there might be another problem or if there might be a mistake in the tax administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a little time left!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u27	That's right, but we don't have to fill it all out, do we? Mrs Lodder of the VVD has the floor for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u28	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of people are about to make up for the 2018 tax return. If you then read in the newspaper at the end of January that the Tax Administration does not control 25,000 risky returns and lets them pass unseen, that makes you angry. You make a clean report, you pay your taxes and others, who may not take the rules so closely, seem to get away with it too. That's not good for tax morals. Everyone in this country pays their taxes, and that must not be undermined by this kind of coverage. My question to the Secretary of State is how he's going to prevent this. The coverage also leads to a negative picture of SMEs. When it is reported that 25,000 risky declarations continue unseen, it also puts SMEs in a bad light, while a vast majority, over 80% of SMEs, make their declarations and also pay the tax. Of course, the tax authorities can never check all the declarations manually. That's unbelievable. The fact that the Secretary of State is working with an implementation and monitoring strategy makes sense. Yet something goes wrong when there is internal communication that 25,000 risky declarations are not checked. A lot has been said about it tonight. My question is how the Secretary of State will ensure that, if a risk selection has taken place, that control will actually take place. It is not sufficiently clear to me what is causing these incorrect declarations. I do not read much about these causes either. In fact, the Secretary of State states that he cannot comment on the corrections. That makes it difficult, because if you don't know the cause of the corrections, you can't work on a solution to reduce the number of corrections. Is the tax system too complicated? Is the chance you're being controlled too short? Or are they relatively small amounts to be corrected? We know the system is complicated. You know the VVD's desire to significantly simplify the tax system, so that there may be fewer mistakes. But we are still in the dark about other causes. How is the Secretary of State going to include the Chamber without exposing the enforcement strategy? I understand that's not the point. In answering the questions asked in advance, we have been able to read that corporate tax has always met the target value of the correction income. Achieving a target cannot, of course, be the starting point. Taking a target is perhaps a direction, but it can also be understood as: we have reached the target, so we are there. The Secretary of State also states that in his reply, in fact, a little. The number of book surveys has decreased, but... the Tax Administration has always met the target. The risk selection should be carried out in an appropriate manner and then the risky declarations should be checked. I trust the Secretary of State will endorse that. Mr Omtzigt and I have asked questions about the outstanding debt of taxpayers. It is not quite clear to me what the latest state of affairs is. The 6.5 billion has just been mentioned by Mr Omtzigt, but at the same time we are working with dynamic monitoring. The Secretary of State states that there is no downward trend in the delay in recovery for the time being. What's the catch-up? How come there's still no decreasing trend? I am not going to repeat the other questions. People and entrepreneurs pay taxes, which is needed to pay good care, to invest in our safety, in quality education and infrastructure. The Tax Administration is at the bar every working day to collect 1 billion euros. Of course, this kind of message should never lead to any other behaviour. So don't apologize for the risky returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u29	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u30	When discussing whether we should follow the Tax Administration better when it comes to improvements or things that go wrong, the VVD did not want to agree, but Mrs Lodders did have a motion to agree with the Secretary of State on the information we get. Now the Secretary of State says in his reply that he thinks it is only an appropriate time to talk about targets, performance indicators, annual plan and annual report at the time we are debating this. Does Mrs Lodder agree with the Secretary of State, or does she see the problem that we are asking for some things but not getting them because the Secretary of State thinks we don't have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u31	As a result of a motion tabled by a number of parties, we have indeed reached agreement on the report of the Tax Administration. We also had a good talk with the Secretary of State about this. We have also said that we are going to improve it. That's being worked on right now. I think we should give that process time. At the same time, you ask questions about certain things the moment you have them. I was talking with Mr Omtzig about recovery. Especially if something's important, you report it. Then hopefully you'll get some answers. They weren't quite clear yet, so I'm also assuming we'll hear more about it in a moment. And if we don't, we're gonna ask follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u32	I actually hear here a broad sensed need for insight into how risky returns are controlled, so that we can look and see if there is any improvement in them. If the SP asks for that insight, I will be dismissed by the Secretary of State with the answer that this is not part of the new reporting. Does Mrs Lodders think that is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u33	I think we have given direction to the reporting and how we would like to see it. At the moment there are parts where we want to keep the extra finger on the wrist, we can make it discussable with each other. I think we should do that at the right time in the process. I would not like to say that we are at the start, because the start has been made on a new reporting period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u34	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that if you pay taxes, you want to assume that it is done by other people and companies as well and that it is controlled. You want to assume that fraud is detected, that mistakes are detected and that people who make a mistake are helped to fix them. A message that many risky declarations from SMEs remain, of course, is worrying. Many written questions have already been asked to the Secretary of State. I thank him for the answers. I do have some questions about that. The first question concerns the fact that the Secretary of State says that figures show that 60% of SMEs make full and correct declarations. I was curious as to how that relates to the fact that only 17% is a risk factor in the risk analysis. Are those 23% other than minor mistakes or mistakes? How am I supposed to see those two figures in proportion? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. I am about to ask a number of critical questions, but Mr Stoffer was right to say that things are going well. That's what we have to name. The 4 billion of hidden assets found are indeed worthy of congratulations. Moreover, I still find it a shocking amount. It's a good thing it's found by the IRS. Questions have just been asked about a possible recruitment stop, including the bailiffs. I saw that 450 new colleagues started on one day, namely 4 February. That's very necessary. Mr Van Rooijen was right to say that every day the Tax Administration is still struggling with this maled departure scheme, and I am still afraid that in the coming years too. It just makes sure there's less capacity. For this reason, the question to the Secretary of State is as simple as possible: a large group of declarations, even after checking the most serious risks, has been dropped. They were in box one. Would that have happened the same way if the tax authorities had been at full war? That question stays with me. To be honest, I fear that the answer to that question is: no, that had not happened. Then that, I think, is an additional incentive to continue with the recruitment, with all the energy needed for that. Mr. Chairman. I have a question about those three bowls. I had to think a little about Mr. Oster's guinea pigs, where you end up in one of those three containers. I don't understand a few things about that yet. The first is this. I get that a part is Category 1. We're all gonna test it manually. This is a high risk. The second tray is the doubts. But with the risk analysis you can also get into box 3. The conclusion is that there is no risk after all. I just don't understand how that works. The computer spits out your report as potentially risky, with immediately: oh, no, it doesn't. Can the Secretary of State explain that? Or can't you get into that box three? You're only gonna get in there when you're judged in box two, and it turns out there's nothing to worry about? I would like an explanation, because I didn't understand that from the answer. I would also like to get a little more insight into the exact proportions of what that computer is spitting out. How many go straight to that category 1 and how many are actually checked one by one? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the question about the things that end up in box 2. These are in particular entrepreneurs who borrow money from their company. Were they in box 2 in earlier years, and was there any research done at that time? In the coming years, however, it is intended that in this category not only the part that comes into the high risk category... Entrepreneurs who borrow money are also there and they are immediately seen as high risk and, fortunately, they are immediately investigated. Will this category also be considered in the coming years, even if they fall into that intermediate category? I think that's important, because this is big money. The cabinet has taken measures to partially limit this regime and tighten up the rules, but I am very curious about what that is about. Finally, I have a question on the written reply. We see that in recent years, the average correction per processed declaration has risen from 40,000 to almost 80,000. That's a double. It may therefore be that the Tax Administration is particularly successful in correcting it, but it may also be that more mistakes are made. Isn't the Secretary of State still able to explain that huge increase for me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u36	Thank you. There is a short question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u37	It is good that D66 now has many questions and also asks them; she did not do so before in the written preparation. However, I note that a lot of questions have not yet been answered, for example the question of why the Secretary of State does not want to know about such decisions. I was wondering if D66 thought it wise that a secretary of state, who is politically responsible for the Tax Administration and therefore also for shifting 90% of risky returns to the basement, said "I don't really need to know about that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u38	This is a serious matter and that is why I would ask Mrs Leijten for some care. All those category 1 and all those tray 1 groups have all been checked. There remained an intermediate category, which included "foreign" among others. Those are the people who emigrate. That group is, I think, also checked. That leaves this group and I have a number of questions with you. Is that sufficient and will that be better monitored in the coming years? First of all, because you bring it as if 90% of all risks go straight to the basement unread. In my view, that is simply not what comes out of the figures and I think that we should treat this carefully. It's serious enough for that. Then your question about what the Secretary of State does and doesn't want to know. I think that's a complicated question. The Secretary of State is always politically responsible, but he is responsible for a huge service. In doing so, the Secretary of State will rely on the people who run that service. I'm assuming he has good agreements to be informed about the big business. I assume you just quoted, and I'm sure the Secretary of State will explain that. But I'm not gonna tell the Secretary of State how to manage that club day to day. He is at all times available to me and to you if we are not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u39	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u40	What strikes me is that that tray 1, with the most risky declarations of the risk-selected declarations, is exactly the target. That's remarkable, isn't it? It controls 10% and 90%. I think it's a big difference when you say we don't get 5% or 7% once. It happens. But a service knows, this Secretary of State knows and Mr Van Weyenberg also knows that it is explosive when these things come out. That is why we are all standing here arguing that we do not want this. We do not want the image that one pays his taxes properly and that the other can get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u41	Thank you. Your question!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u42	Then it's weird that the Secretary of State says, "I don't need to know." Surely he can't inform us then, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u43	I assume that the Chamber will always be informed about the major issues. And again, the way in which the Secretary of State directs this daily, I'm sure he can explain himself. But the image that he doesn't want to know all sorts of things is not my picture of how the Secretary of State runs this service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u44	Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about 15 minutes to prepare himself. I'm suspending the meeting until about 8:55.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u45	I ask Members to take their seats and give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer all the questions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I was a little late, too. I would almost make the joke "I had to try to collect my answers in the right trays" but I decided never to use the word "cake" in the Chamber again. That was already becoming a kind of ball-ball and it got worse and worse, while it was my deeper intention to make insights about what we are doing. Anyway, from now on, I'll try to avoid the word "cake" and use the word "category." I don't know if that'll make it any easier, but I'm gonna do it. I think I answered four categories in my answer. The first are general questions about tax morality, risk selection, book surveys. How do we deal with that? The second category is the questions about the case that it all started with. The third category is a number of questions about staff and how they all work. It does not seem unimportant to me to dwell on that. Finally, there were questions from Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Lodders about the collection, say the follow-up process to the debate we are discussing today. There too it is good to briefly consider a number of things. I'll try to keep the pace up. Let me start by repeating what we are talking about. Today we are talking about the risk-based supervision of the Tax Administration, and this time specifically about the vpb declaration of small and medium-sized enterprises. In your Chamber, there were clear concerns, also in the previous debate, about the quality of supervision of the Tax Administration, following an article that appeared in Trouw a few weeks ago. Again, I think that the case is important, but it might also be good to repeat what the overall monitoring and implementation strategy is. The strategy aims to create an environment in which mistakes are avoided as much as possible. This is easier for citizens and businesses and cheaper for the Tax Administration than to correct all mistakes made afterwards. But of course there is also real supervision, both in advance and afterwards. I agree with the Chamber as well: ultimately, compliance, compliance, tax morals also depend on whether people feel that there is post-control. The degree and intensity of supervision are determined by the behaviour of citizens and businesses. When we see those attacks or those reports, there are categories that we think are: "Hey, that's remarkable!" So the citizen or the entrepreneur can come into such a risk selection. If citizens or companies deliberately fail to comply with the rules, the Tax Administration always acts strictly. This strategy is therefore simply about compliance. In order to promote compliance and ensure the return, because I would like to do so, we are using a mix of instruments. Firstly, the preventive instruments. Like I said, you can solve a lot in front. Think, for example, of information, services, pre-consultation. I will not go into all of that, but all of these are important parts where we see, also internationally, that we are good at it and that it also helps tax morals. If necessary, there are also repressive instruments. A mix of preventive and repressive together leads to the best compliance. It is important that we do not become predictable as far as the repressive instruments are concerned. If entrepreneurs and citizens knew in advance what we were going to do, it might be a little too easy. We're working hard on that. The principle remains that the greatest risks will be dealt with first. In the end, of course, there is always a trade-off that we have come up with before, because of the available capacity. But it is true that after this selection of risks we always place the biggest risks first and that we also look at them as much manually as possible. It is virtually impossible, as has been said before, to manually review all the declarations made at the service. The Tax Administration therefore puts all available ex post supervision capacity at the highest risks. Those risks are automatically distributed on the basis of the risk profiles we discussed earlier. This applies not only to SMEs, but also to the monitoring of all target groups and tax resources. Then the case. What was it about? It was the tax year 2016. In that tax year, 683 000 declarations were made. Mrs Lodders repeated it: 17% of them were ejected about 120,000 of them because there were potentially relevant risks. So these didn't, so to speak, come through that automatic selection. And then I say again: that does not mean that the 17% were all wrong. They just had an increased risk profile and we're gonna take another look at that. So we have the well-known categories. In the highest risk profile, they're all being looked at. If they are not in the highest risk profile but somewhere in between, there will be further scrutiny. It may also be that a part of the product that will be in the third category is not immediately viewed, but will be held for a while. It could be, as I say to Mr Snels, that in the first category there is something going on. If the same attack, perhaps in another tax year or something else, is in the third category, we can still take it with us. The third category is not a kind of non-boot, but if nothing else turns out, they are taken off accordingly. But it's not like that. That's the most important misconception I want to take away. That's why the Tax Administration first finds that the declarations are risky and then doesn't choose to correct them. That is not what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u47	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u48	I understand that some of the charges are being made, but the Secretary of State is now talking about arresting declarations until the next year. Then I'll ask how that goes. If you don't check these reports, you throw them in a box and say: if we find something the following year, we can still see... the Tax Administration has already imposed an attack. Such an attack can only be reclaimed if there is a new fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u49	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u50	Ah, he'll be right back. If you don't have a new fact, your thing expires, and then taking off a report like that could be dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u51	Is it convenient for you to keep your interruption for a while? The Secretary of State will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u52	Yes. But Mr Omtzigt is absolutely right in saying that if an attack is established and if there is no new fact, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u53	The Secretary of State says here: they've all been seen. But he says something else in his answer. There he says: "I cannot guarantee that the control of all Vpb declarations by SME entrepreneurs could have led to higher revenues. However, in order to be able to look at all the declarations, there should be much more people involved in the reporting process. That is unbelievable, and I do not think that I have any sense." How does this answer relate to the answer here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u54	I have a lot of answers to answer your questions, including the question that Mrs Leijten is now asking. So I'm gonna come back to this in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u55	Which block are you going to go back to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u56	In the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u57	The second block. Is that okay, Mrs. Leijten? The Secretary of State says he'll come back on it in the second block. Do you want to wait for that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u58	He literally says here: everything has been seen; it is not that it is simply taken off. Literally. I'm just getting e-mails, you know, from taxmen who say, "It's right, it's all going to the basement unseen." It's been in the paper. We discussed it in Oral Question Time. We got the written answers. He keeps saying, "I'm not gonna run them all; this is the systematic." But here he says, they've all been seen. Then what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u59	The Secretary of State. If you say you'll be back in the second block, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u60	I'll get back to you in a minute. In my opinion, we have already discussed this in the first debate, but I will try to explain it again. Those 683,000 are all passed through automatic risk selection. We'd established that by now. It looks at: are there any risks? Again, if there are risks, that doesn't mean that eventually there will be something wrong with them. I can't answer that often enough. Then we'll take another look. Of some we will immediately see that it is a high risk. Then we're going to look at them all manually. In other words, there's a less high risk. Then we'll see if we still think it's important to do them. Mr Omtzigt gave an example of this: people who go abroad, a sort of last attack. That is what we say: it is very important that we look at it. There are also categories of which we actually say: we do not think the risk is high enough at the moment, and we do not therefore need to look at them. So I just want to say that it is not true that all these 25,000 are qualified as risky but we decide not to do them. No, everything we find risky eventually goes to that first category and we're just gonna look at it. That, I think, is really the misunderstanding that exists here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u61	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u62	Then I don't understand at all. There is an automatic selection of the risks. Then we get those three cups. Of these, there is one tray: not risky. You can't explain that! He's coming out, isn't he? He has given an overview of what is underneath, including in response to the legitimate questions of the Labour Party and GroenLinks, who said: there are also the companies with these huge loans to themselves. That's a well-known tax trick to pay as little tax as possible. They're in there! Emigrated entrepreneurs are in there. He's turned all that in. And here he says, okay, we're doing a risk selection, but it's actually not a good risk selection. Is that how I'm supposed to take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u63	No, that is not the way Mrs Leijten should take it, but I shall come back to that in detail. In any case, it is important to note that the Tax Administration makes strategic choices about the supervisory strategy in the annual plan. We discussed with the Chamber how best to do that. I am always open to reporting, and we are of course also doing so on the basis of a responsibility of the annual plan. I am always willing to continue to talk to the Chamber about whether the performance indicators we have are the right ones. Or should we use other indicators? I say again: I will gladly continue to debate this with the Chamber. A number of questions have been asked about tax morality. Is it credible if the tax authorities threaten to punish fraudsters, or is their chances of getting caught so low that this doesn't impress them? I think that was a question from Mr Stoffer. Could the credibility of the Tax Administration be compromised? I believe he even made the comparison with his own children, who feel flawless when there is a threat of punishment. Let me go through that comparison with kids a little bit. Raising isn't just punishment, because of course you're also trying to help and support children. And that is actually exactly the way in which the tax administration's supervisory strategy is directed. You help people out front. You explain what they're supposed to do and you explain what's going on. But people also know that if they don't meet it afterwards, there is definitely the possibility that they will be punished for that. In our case, that sentence is a book search, an extra correction or whatever. So I understand the comparison with Mr Stoffer's children very well. Ultimately, the most important thing is that we have the highest possible level of compliance, and so we also collect as much taxpayers' money as possible. Mr Stoffer also asked what we are going to do to prevent this image damage. The annual Fiscal Monitor provides insight into, among other things, tax morals, the image of the Tax Administration and also the perception of the consequences of fraud. Of course, we think it is very important to have a clear picture of this. Actually, this Fiscal Monitor shows that tax morals and the perceived chance of getting caught show quite a stable picture for years. The research also shows that the Tax Administration is mainly seen as reliable, expert and strict. I like that last part too, I'm just saying. Most of the respondents also believe that the consequences of fraud will be very serious. And it is, so I'm glad they see it that way. In addition to carrying out controls and monitoring, other forms are visible to citizens and businesses. For example, if an entrepreneur fails to make a timely declaration, the Tax Administration calls him to remind him that he has to report it. That's really helping, too. And if we find inaccuracies or incompleteness in the processing of data, for example, we will contact you, so that the entrepreneur can restore it himself. So it is: punishing afterwards, but also sometimes helping a little by explaining things that might not have gone quite well again. This really is a form of supervision that works very well and that we are satisfied with. In addition, the Tax Administration carries out samples and conducts thematic monitoring. We'll pick up a number of themes. The random nature of samples and a certain unpredictability in them are important in our supervision; I said that just now. Every taxpayer can in principle expect a check. That's what we'd like to have in people's minds. The project Hidden Ability was mentioned. That project is aimed at a specific target group and a specific form of tax evasion, namely trying to dispose of your ability. We are very pleased that this project has been successful. Fortunately, we are also getting better at finding out about this form of tax evasion and we are taking a tough stand against it, as I have already said. And we're definitely gonna keep doing that. Mrs Leijten actually says: but you should at least do more research. She says: it should be clear, for example, that you get control every few years. In my opinion, this was also referred to an interview with Professor Kavelaars, who said: would it not be better, for example, to plan an inspection visit with SMEs once every five years? Let's try to figure that out, for example. There are 2 million entities in SMEs. Book research takes about 50 hours. With a check density of once every five years, this would mean 400,000 book surveys per year. Each year this means a commitment to the effective implementation of the 20 million hours controls. Based on the net employability of about 1,200 hours per employee, almost 17,000 employees are needed for such a test alone. Again, it is not that I am opposed to ex post supervision, but every SME in every five years checks lead to 17,000 additional officials. That may be a little less easy than sometimes thought and spoken of. The question by Mr Nijboer and Mr Stoffer is this: should the tax authorities, for the sake of fairness, not do more samples than they do now, for example in the declarations which are not considered risky? In itself that would not be a problem, but of course there is something of an available capacity. The supervisory capacity would rather go to the risks we see than to the risks that may not yet exist. Repressive drugs are relatively expensive. They take a lot of time. That is why we are trying to put more supervision in front of these things. But again, we will continue to do random book research. Then there was a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u64	There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u65	My question was whether the Secretary of State is willing to put in that... What does he call it? In those compartments... It can't be called a "cake" anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u66	No, "category."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u67	Category. Would he also like to take a random sample from that category that was mentioned in that Trouwartikel, about those declarations in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u68	I thought that was an interesting question. For clarity, the question was as follows. We will not call the "cups" that anymore, but with regard to that second risk category we have decided to look at 2,500 on the basis of "they really have a high risk." We're gonna take a full look at it and investigate it. We have chosen not to transfer 22,500 to the highest risk category. We have done so for several reasons, partly because of the demand for capacity. But actually Mr Nijboer asks me: could you still have an aselective sample there, on that 22,500? To be honest, I thought that was quite an interesting thought. Did we really get it right there or not? It's actually a part that comes a little later, but I had just figured it might be good to see if we could do that. There is also the argument that Mr Omtzigt just put forward: if it turns out that we have completed the declarations in accordance with the declaration and that there is no new fact, then there is nothing, then we have just done it nicely. But the random test can prove that we have to do with a small number that there is a new fact and then of course we have something. So I would like to say that we are going to see if we can bring a small group into this to test whether we have indeed done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u69	I think that's a good commitment. I think it is really important for people's sense of justice that not a whole group should just be sidelined because the Tax Administration says: we are very busy, which I do understand, because it is also busy, we are not looking at it anymore. So I would certainly be in favour of that. I asked for it, too, and the Secretary of State is gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u70	This is a commitment, Mr President, to look at it with a small group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u71	There is an interruption by Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u72	Actually, my question is in line with this. The Secretary of State just got over it very quickly, but I think it's pretty much the main question of this debate, at least in this case: what is the decision-making process when the declaration is in box 2, in category 2? Those 2,500 go to category 1. It has been established that they really need to be taken off manually. But what about the 22,500? Has this been done in a different way this time because of capacity problems than in previous years or in regular decision-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u73	The Secretary of State is tempted to go to the second block every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u74	It doesn't matter. I'll tell you what, I'll give you a clear answer in one minute, hopefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u75	Finish block one, and then we'll go to block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u76	I would've stayed in the books for a while. I will not go into that for too long. Again, book research is and remains important, but it is only one of those instruments. You can't directly link the fact that they're decreasing to the fact that there was less to be earned, because, for example, we had already achieved our targets. We really believe that the deficit of compliance should ultimately be as small as possible. This includes book surveys, but it is a rather intensive process. It costs a lot of capacity, and we sometimes try to bribe with it, as you already understood. Anyway, we keep doing it, and I think that's the most important thing. Several MPs also asked: shouldn't we do more than we do now? I have already said that practice has taught us that it is precisely in this mix that we should look for the best in compliance, and that it is therefore a combination of repressive and preventive measures. Then I come to what I think the Chamber is waiting for: the risk selection in the second category. I think I just told you how that went in the first category. So we've had that assignment by now, so what? The declarations in category 2 are declarations requiring further analysis of the risks in order to determine whether they are transferred to categories 1 or 3. The detailed analysis shall take into account the risks related to the tax interest, available capacity and stockpiling of the ejected releases. Especially the second block is, I think, the block the Chamber asked for a few times. I have also said about this in an earlier debate: yes, capacity also ultimately plays a role in the question of how much extra supervision you can do. In case it hadn't been clear, I'm gonna say it again here. That's true. This process involving experienced technical experts leads to the decision-making as we had here in November 2018. That's how it goes in that second category.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u77	Would you like your interruption now, Mrs Leijten? Because I think the Secretary of State would come back to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u78	That's what I'm waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u79	Please continue your speech so that Mrs Leijten's question can be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u80	I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u81	Another question. Go ahead. I'd like to point out that this is your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u82	I can count, Mr. Chairman. We have already heard this explanation. The more you explain it and no matter how many times you repeat it to explain it, it doesn't make it fairer. With this explanation, the Secretary of State pretends that everything is under control and that everything is known, but how does he explain that it has not been possible to find out just how many declarations have been ejected after the automated risk assessment, so that is what it is called, Mr President, I cannot do anything about how the risks have been categorized and how they have been eliminated? Then the answer is: I have too little time to do so. He acts like he's on top of it and like they know everything, but he can't send the answer to the simple question of how it is, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u83	I don't quite understand the question. What exactly can I not answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u84	I am giving Mrs Leijten a chance to make it a little more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u85	I note that the Secretary of State keeps explaining repeatedly how incredibly logical it is how the Tax Administration works, but it is not just how the Tax Administration works. You have risky declarations, which are divided into trays......................................................................................................................................................................', Then two weeks is too short a time to answer those questions. Then he can't be so sure about this that they're on top of it and they know everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u86	Mrs Leijten is consistent, because I still do not understand what she is asking for the second time. I understand the first part of her intervention. She thinks I'm acting like everything's under control. I don't want to do that. In fact, I have just mentioned once again that the second category of capacity also plays a role. We're certainly not saying that everything's okay. Moreover, we have still outstanding claims, as has also been said. Mrs Leijten suggests that I do not have some kind of insight into how this was done in this case, but I think I have indicated this entirely in those answers. Maybe she's referring to something else and I don't see what it is. Maybe she has the answer in her hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u87	The Secretary of State can't understand it, but it's not such a difficult question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u88	Can you rephrase the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u89	The Secretary of State defends his policy here over and over again with it being super logical how they do it. There will be risky returns in different categories. We're still playing with category 2. It can go to one or three. One will be checked, and the rest will be eliminated. Then I ask in the written questions whether the Secretary of State can indicate how many there are. Next, the answer is that time is too limited for the Ministry to reply. In other words, the suggestion made here by the Secretary of State that it makes sense and that they are on top of it does not correspond to the answer he gives. He doesn't have that information and he can't provide it to the Chamber in two weeks. So why is the Secretary of State so sure that he's on top of it and that there's nothing going on at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u90	I'll take a look at the Secretary of State if he...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u91	I think I should come back to this in the second term. Apparently, in the answers to the questions, there is an answer that Mrs Leijten finds confusing. Again, I don't see it, but I'd like to get back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u92	The Secretary of State will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u93	I would like to make a comment on that. I'm being sent to the first question with a brat in the reed and now with my second question. This concerns the removal of 90% of risky declarations. We need to increase the tax on the energy bill and on the daily messages here, when the Secretary of State does not have his facts in order and does not even know how much more he could collect so that we may not have to increase those taxes. I think that's a bit of a mess. You remind me that this is my second interruption, but I have committed an interruption twice, but I have not received an answer. This is always the case with this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u94	The Secretary of State has indicated that he will return to answer your questions in the second term. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u95	Now I understand how it's going in box two. Of course capacity plays a role in this, but I think that this is always the case, in addition to risks and strategy. My impression is that capacity has played an extra role in this case. I look at the figures for 2015 and 2014: there were 84,000 and 80,000 declarations in box 1 respectively; 13% and 12% respectively. In 2016, what the case is about, there are only 56.000 left, so only 8% left. If you look at it a little bit, that would be about 22,500 declarations that didn't go from tray 2 to one or a part of it or a larger part of it, but that went to tray 3. Then my impression is that in this case because of the stock that has grown, capacity here has been an additional important factor in decision-making on tray 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u96	No, it's not. I wouldn't have made this sum myself. Capacity always plays a role, no matter what year. For example, it depends on where the largest risk categories are. It may well be that for a year we expect a very high risk of a different tax resource than the Vpb alone. Those are also considerations that you make. You can't say right away on the basis of those figures that these will be 22,500 returns. It really isn't. That 22,500 in this year could be another group in another year. In the end, it is said that we are doing a sample in it, for example. When we see that there is not much going on there, we say: these are not the greatest risks; we prefer to spend supervisory capacity on other risks. If you have an endless amount of more capacity, you can of course do even more, but we still have to row with the belts we have. That is why, precisely because of risk-based supervision, we are looking for the biggest risks. We're gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u97	I understand that, but is it a coincidence that the percentage for the Vpb-mkb'ers in 2016 is much lower than in 2015 and 2014? Is that a coincidence or is there a conscious choice or strategy behind it, that other declarations, large entrepreneurs or individuals, have used more capacity to select additional supervision and risks? That's a bit of a question, isn't it? I still have the impression that capacity problems have played a more important role here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u98	I'll give you the same answer: I don't add up like that. But it is where that capacity absolutely plays a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u99	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u100	Yeah, I'll move on. Mr Snels also asked how the Tax Administration precisely draws up the selection rules and how those rules are then analysed. There are several ways in which the Tax Administration carries out risk selection. The aim of these different risk selections is always the same: to select the most risky declaration so that the capacity can be used as effectively as possible. These selection rules are developed by professional experts, in collaboration with data analysts. In the development of these new selection rules, several factors are important, such as new regulation, risk, appearance, prevention of predictability, as I have just said, insight into which sections of the declarations are most likely to be wrong, which is also important, I think the experience from previous years, because we are trying to take the supervisory experience, and whether there is a risk of leakage, which we spoke about with Mr Omtzigt last time. These selection rules must of course also be maintained. Precisely because the Tax Administration is trying to avoid making mistakes, it must always be assessed whether those risks of errors change a declaration, because that is what we want in the end. If the use of such an instrument is successful, certain selection rules can be removed from risk selection, but new ones can also be added, I also say in the direction of Mrs Lodders. She asked what that was like, but I cannot say all the rules exactly, because then we would become too predictable, but so, on the basis of the things I mentioned, such a process is set up. Then I have a question from Mrs Leijten. She asked why some of the Vpb declarations in the Prio 2 category were not taken into consideration. The answer to this is not news; that the Tax Administration cannot look at all the declarations individually. For this reason, the Tax Administration uses available capacity through risk-based supervision as effectively as possible. This is done by giving the declaration with the highest risk profile the highest priority and that is the category 1. The risks in category 2 need further investigation. As outlined above, this is a dynamic process whereby Category 2 declarations are allocated to Category 1 or Category 3 as a result of the survey during the year. In November 2018, in this case, there were 25,000 declarations for the 2016 tax year in the second category and then the choice was made to bring 10% of these declarations to the first category, in order to assess them in full. These were two categories: the declarations of foundations and associations and declarations which had a signal function for recovery in connection with the emigration of a director-major shareholder. The other declarations concerned entrepreneurs who borrowed money from their company, the so-called current account. So dynamic insight also plays, for example, that we look at shift risk. Then perhaps in later years there will still be the possibility of correcting what we were talking about. This risk-based monitoring will also achieve the best possible result with regard to the capacity we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u101	I give Mrs Leijten the opportunity for a second interruption, because she has just not received an answer to her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u102	How many returns were made directly in the highest category, box 1, how many remained in box 2, and how many ended up in box 3 and have not been assessed at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u103	As I replied in my letter, there were 683,000 claims. After step 1, 567.000 declarations according to attack came through the risk weighting. Then you had 120,000 returns, the 17% we were talking about, which did have a risk and had to undergo a further risk weighting. That's what they did in categories. In the category that remained, we placed a number at once to the highest category and the other number went to the third category: according to declaration, lowest risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u104	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u105	I am certainly not the only one who asked this question in the written round of questions. You'd think they'd know that if they made the decision that out of those 25,000 90% go! Get out of here. But then we don't even have the answer to the question of how many of that third category is going to be! Oh, my God. Oh, my God. So we still don't know how many there are. We are now told how many have been ejected: 120,000. We know that at 27,000 in 2016, book research was done. So there's a little 100,000 just taken off and not checked? Is that a correct conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u106	I'm looking in my letter. I believe that I have answered these questions in a proper way in my letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u107	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u108	Mrs Leijten also asked: does this mean that the declarations with a high risk profile have not been dealt with? Then we get to the part we talked about in the beginning. The answer is: no, with risk-oriented supervision, the available capacity is used precisely on high-risk declarations. Declarations with the highest risk shall be assessed first. Their assessment is carried out by experienced technical experts, based on customer-specific information that is not built into the selection system; we add that to it. The trained eye, as we call it, assesses whether or not a declaration is ultimately being processed by a technical expert. In addition, I would like to stress once again that, despite the risks identified, the declarations should not be incorrect. A large majority of declarations with a high risk profile will eventually be cancelled after assessment and possible treatment in accordance with the declaration. This is done on the basis of the facts and circumstances of that particular case. In addition, the Tax Administration's strategy is not to do as many checks as possible, but to prevent errors. For example, we are offering the opportunity to conduct pre-tax consultations, as I have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u109	Mrs. Leijten, I'm gonna give you one more chance to ask one more question, and then we're gonna stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u110	I don't understand why it's so complicated for the Secretary of State to give us the information we're asking for. What we are looking for is how many declarations have been assessed as risky, but not included in the book survey. The Secretary of State will explain to us all about the situation with tray 2, but my questions will be on tray 3 and also on tray 1. Now I'm going back to the written answer. We were told that 120,000 declarations were actually made in 2006. "Manually handled declarations" is not indicated in the statement on page 5, but this is answered on page 9: "The number of book surveys that have taken place is 27.000."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u111	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u112	How can the Secretary of State explain the difference between 56,000 declarations in category 1 in 2006, but the verification of 27,000 declarations? That means that almost half of them have not been checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u113	I think that last number is just our book search. That has nothing to do with categories 1, 2, and 3. That's just the random way we look again afterwards. I'm beginning to understand the confusion. You try to add it and subtract it, but these categories are completely incomparable. I really have the feeling that we have all those 683,000 declarations in that letter all peeled off to all those categories, and besides that there is something to do with a book search. That's a random book search, and that has nothing to do with it. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Althans, dat kan je niet op- of aftrekken van die getallen.]] I think that's the misunderstanding. But I really don't want to make it any harder than it is. Why don't I try to show you exactly where we are in the second term? I really feel like we're looking for something that I don't see where it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u114	I think it would be a very good idea to come back to this in a little more detail in the second term. There is also an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u115	I have an explanatory question which is in fact in line with Mrs Leijten's. Because this letter doesn't really say what we want to know. It's 683,000 returns. 120,000 of them have been ejected. We would like to know, I'm just saying for the Acts: how much in box 1, how much in box 2 and how much in box 3? From tray one, they're all checked out, aren't they? From tray 2: how many were checked, and how many went to tray 1 and to tray 3? And from tray three, we understand they haven't been checked. Just those numbers, that's actually the flowchart. That should have been the basis of this letter. In all honesty, I'd like to expect that information in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u116	Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that he will return to this in the second term. So I suggest he move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u117	It is really anything but my intention to leave this unclear. Apparently, that's what happened. So let me try to correct that at least in the second term. With regard to the first category, the answer is very clear: they are all checked. And that is also the case with three. So that's part of the answer. And risk box 1, all; 100%. So we'll get back to you on that. Then there are a number of other questions. Mr Snels asked: what are the considerations you make to assess the risks? I spoke just as quickly about the selection rules. In these selection rules, therefore, we also take into account the prevention of predictability. Even to give an example, if you had asked for that part of the tax administration's supervision, that supervision would stand in the way. So we'd rather not do that. Mr Stoffer asked: is there any estimate of what percentage of these declarations was really wrong? We do not estimate the risk of these declarations. Since we haven't looked at them manually, I can't make a precise assessment of the percentage either. Then Mr Van Weyenberg asked: how does it work in the recovery of income tax in the current account cases? If there is no new fact, will this group stay out of the picture? The answer to this is: if an income tax assessment has been imposed on the managing director-major shareholder, it can be recovered within the five-year recovery period if a new fact is involved. This applies to all final income tax attacks. In this respect, corporate tax and income tax should not be confused. If there is a loan from an e.g. to the managing director-large shareholder, there is a hidden profit distribution if this managing director-large shareholder cannot or will not repay the loan. In other words, the funds have left the assets of the e.g. permanently and the hidden profit distribution is taxed in income tax and not in corporation tax. That's why there might have been a misunderstanding about that. Mr Nijboer asked a question about the risks involved in the loans. He asked: does the group in which the declaration is not checked mainly consist of director-large shareholders with excess loans from their bvs? We are currently carrying out a risk analysis. If we estimate the risk that a loan is excessive, as a large amount, we will also deal with the declaration. If we think the risk is low, we don't always do it or a year later. Does the proposed measure against excess Dga debts lead to fewer vpb returns in the second category in the future? I think that was a question from Mr Stoffer. The proposed measure against excessive Dga debts, as it is so beautifully called, works positively for the enforcement and supervision of the Tax Administration. To the extent that the debts of the dga to its e.g. more than 5 tonnes, the multiple is counted as the income of the dga. Dgas will reduce as much as possible the excessive portion of the debt through redemption or dividend payments. They have until 2022 to do so, because then the measure will enter into force. The effect of the measure is to reduce the number of excessive Dga debts. If the dga debts are not reduced in time, the excess debt is counted as the income of the dga. Mr President, this is a lot of technique. I apologize for that. This makes the measure against these excess Dga debts a relevant aspect. And that's, I think, the most important thing for future risk selection. In short: yes, this is definitely a part that is going to come back. Then I have a question from Mr Van Weyenberg on the average correction. It had increased. How is that possible? Are there any more mistakes being made? Actually, the answer to his question is: no, it wasn't that. The cause is the rise in tax revenues. If your attacks go up, the average amount goes up. And perhaps it will also lead to better risk selection, and I hope that will also lead to better risk selection. So as we're better at selecting a risk, you'll see that we have a bigger catch at a time. This is also something that the Court of Auditors had already raised earlier. Mr Omtzig asked me how risky declarations could be better checked. Those reasons are based on the selection rules and differ from case to case. Again, I cannot fully share the precise reasons with your Chamber, because we would then help taxpayers avoid our supervision. The assessment of the risks involves the combination of the characteristics of the taxpayer, the level of taxation, the complexity of the legislation and the regulatory framework. How logical is it that you make a mistake? Oh, and the ease to live up to it. Those are some of the points we're looking at when we're putting the risks in the picture. Moreover, over the years, the Tax Administration has gained an ever better picture of the risks. The selection rules are tightened every year by the Tax Administration trying to learn from the experiences of the previous year when establishing these selection rules. The risk profile per tax resource is filled by a continuous flow of information that we then try to translate into supervision. In addition, not only does the tax resource say something about the risk. The Tax Administration strives for a subject-oriented approach, as I described earlier, in which the subject is looked at in full over all means. So not only what he does at the Vpb, but also what he does with the other means. That could also say something about the risk. The moment you do a book search, I think that's a good example, is when you don't look at a very targeted tax, but at all the taxes that the tax subject fills out and he reports. I think I've already said something about the question of whether I can check all the declarations. That's unbelievable. I just gave you an example. Once again, I think it is a good suggestion from Mr Nijboer that at least a small sample should be carried out, and I have just promised to do so. Then there was a complicated question from Mr Van Weyenberg about the relationship between the 60% of SMEs, who, according to the annual report, make correct and complete declarations, and the 83% that we say are going through risk selection. How do these numbers relate to each other? The 83% from the case we're talking about is only about the Vpb. The 60% is even 60.1%, I believe, is a sample of all SME declarations in a given year. This showed that in 60% of cases it was completely correct and in 40% of cases something was wrong. That can also be a small adjustment. This is not only about the Vpb, but also about the other taxes. Those numbers aren't one-on-one sticking together. By the way, I am saying what Mrs Lodder said this time and also last time, because it is true that the idea that there is still 17% of risk does not mean that it is wrong. There should not be an image of it, and I really agree with her that the majority of those declarations are incorrect. That 60% really had to do with all the tax resources and not with one return, as we have now looked at. Then I come to the second last block, but those cubes are very short. This concerns the recruitment of SMEs for the capacity for supervision. I've already indicated that we had a huge recruitment call. We had to recruit more than 4,200 ft before the end of the year. In the meantime we have had some very good rounds. We still have a pretty big recruitment call. Meanwhile we are at about 3,400 fte that we have to recruit. We're really moving forward, and we're very happy about that. We see that there has been a large influx from SMEs. Mr Omtzigt asked if there would be a job vacancy summit. That's not entirely correct. It is true that on all the generic functions we had, for example, a fiscalist, I'm sure I'm telling you the truth, because I'm sure there's something more precise titles than the ones that have been offered so much, that they've all been filled out. We still write these people a note, because people are leaving again, that they can always come forward. At the moment we are mainly looking for very specific functions. They're definitely not closing. It is absolutely not the case that there is a job vacancy summit. On the contrary, I will say it again here. I would almost say it to the listener or viewer at home: there are still a lot of functions available, about 3,400, so please come forward. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels and Mr Stoffer asked what further efforts we are doing for the staff. I have actually just answered that. We're working very intensively on this recruitment approach. I have just mentioned an example of this. We know, by the way, that it is still quite challenging, in case I have not been clear enough. For some specific functions, it is simply a tight labour market. At the same time, we are extremely happy to have so many people. So we are really in the process of significantly increasing the capacity of recruitment. We have also expanded labour market communication. We have done so much less in the past, but we are doing so very actively now. For example, we opt for a very target-oriented approach. In the past, we did much less. I expect that's really gonna work. Then there was one more question. Actually, I don't remember who it was, and there's no name on it. I have to think about who that was, I think Mr Snels. The question was: how does the Secretary of State intend to use staff more cleverly in order to prevent the impression that the Tax Administration does not have time to carry out checks? Perhaps it was Mr Stoffer who asked this question. You may have asked both of them. We are in the process of deploying new employees as soon as possible, but we do need a start-up training to ensure the quality of the work that needs to be done. It also depends on the pre-training, work experience and the nature of the work how long an entry period is exactly. The application program is customized. We recruit all kinds of profiles: different years of experience and different work processes. The starting point is that everyone starts working immediately after an initial training course and is then further trained. The last question I have here is from Mr Omtzigt. He asked about the recovery. Mrs. Lodders asked for that, too. Mr Omtzigt has already asked questions about this. We have given some answers to that. At the same time, he still has a number of questions. It's an important subject. It is a bit of a different subject than the monitoring we are talking about today. I have already said in the answers that progress has indeed been made. We have also reported this in six-month reports. We have had a small lesson that some people within the Tax Administration gave dynamic monitoring a different name. I know those signals, too. I talked to them, too. It is true that we are now so far away that we think: we do not have to book so quickly; we did so faster in the past. So we're actually leaving more claims open. That percentage may seem to be increasing, but we now know that even after a period of five years, if we continue to look very closely, there are still opportunities to get that debt at some point. Those irrecoverable advances seem to grow, as I said. But we are doing this very consciously with the ultimate goal of achieving more of these advances. However, there were still some good questions left, and I see Mr Omtzigt almost walking forward. Let me at least say that I think it is important that I can also give a good and clear answer to some of these questions, including, for example, an explanation of why some things are happening. I therefore wanted to promise that I will take this with me, and that I will involve the analysis he presented to us in the answers to those questions. So these are good questions, but I need a little more time. I am therefore happy to admit that I am still answering the earlier questions he asked and today's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u118	When will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u119	As soon as possible, but I don't have that subdivision, for example. I'm gonna have to validate those numbers. I know that Mr Omtzigt attaches great importance to validated figures and models, and I do so myself. But I'll get back to you as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u120	Do you have an indication, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u121	Three weeks? I hear three weeks is possible. It could have been three months, but luckily I had the Lingo question right. I'll get back to that in three weeks. I am happy to say that, because these are important questions, which I would also like to have the answer to myself. That's it for the first term. I hope that in the second term we will be able to have some kind of flow schedule. In the new Chamber setup I might be able to present some kind of PowerPoint, but I understand that at least we need to know what we're going to start with and how we're going to do it. Again, also towards Mrs Leijten: it is not the intention to breathe air into something here now. I'd like to make it clear to you, and we'll see if that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u122	Thank you. I'll see if there's still a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u123	Mr. Chairman. On a proposal to check all SMEs once every five years, the Secretary of State knows exactly that this costs 17,000 fte, but I asked my simple question first in writing, then in the debate how much was in those containers, there is no answer. Because then we also know how many are being removed uncontrolled, even if there are risks. The Secretary of State does this time and time again: delivering confusing figures. It says there were 1 56,000 suspicious reports in box with high priority. At the same time, we hear that only 27,000 book surveys have been carried out. But no, that's something else. Because he is creating this confusion and does not give this clarity, we cannot have the debate on the fundamental question of whether we should simply examine all of this. How much could we have got in if we did this, so we wouldn't have to raise the VAT and put the energy bill down? He gets away with it every time. Anyway, I did prepare a motion, so I won't let him get away with it. I believe that the Secretary of State should respond to these questions and not just hide behind all kinds of systems. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the control of tax returns on holdings has been halved in five years;]] [[noting that the 10% control of risky declarations generates no less than 1.5 billion in additional tax revenue;]] [[considers that 90% of risky declarations are not subject to control, while energy and messages are subject to increased taxation;]] [[calls on the Government to check all risky declarations and to inform the Chamber of the results annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-458]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The State Secretary has made a commitment to keep a sample of SMEs that would not be investigated at first. I'm happy about that. I asked the Secretary of State if he was prepared to report on the number of checks carried out. That was done in the past. I do not think I have heard an answer to that, so I ask him to reply in the second term. I have signed a motion by Mr Mulder to turn the Tax Administration into a major project. We have asked and had this discussion before. At that time, the complete opposition was in favour. Given the tone of some coalition parties, I can imagine that they have changed their minds. However, we would like to try again to get a majority in the Chamber for this, because there is every reason to have strong parliamentary supervision and control over one of our country's most important public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u125	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to see, on the basis of a concrete case, exactly how risk-based supervision works. I did think I understood: from 680,000 to 120,000 to 56 000 and then 25,000, divided into 22,500 and 2,500. But now I'm confused myself if that's true. We'll hear that in second term. That's fine. I have another question about what I said in the Interrupt debate with the Secretary of State. This concerns the table on page 5 of the written set. Indeed, in 2014 you will see 84.000 declarations in category 1, in 2015 80,000 and in 2016 suddenly only 56.000. That's a lot lower in percentages. Now that may be because there are indeed capacity problems with the Tax Administration that are bigger than in the past. This is a recognition of the fact that capacity problems and the reorganisation actually allow us to check fewer declarations as it is because capacity is used elsewhere. I would like to hear a statement from the Secretary of State on how these differences occur in the table on page 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u127	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u128	Mr. Chairman. If something has just become very clear, it is that there must be validated and structured information, preferably impartial or from third parties. It is time we stopped having this kind of debate here. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tax Administration has not been functioning properly for a long time;]] [[Whereas tax collection is at risk due to inadequate ICT systems and staff turnover;]] [[speaks out to designate the Tax Administration as a major project,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder, Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-459]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u129	Mr. Chairman. For my group, the available capacity of the Tax Administration is insufficient. Target values therefore have no normative value and no normative meaning for us. I ended my first term with "The Chamber must bring in the heavy artillery." I did not get the feeling tonight that the necessary reversal of the tax authorities is sufficiently underway. All things considered, I come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Tax Administration represents an incomparable interest in the functioning of all parts of the collective sector;]] [[Whereas it is essential for the House of Representatives to have an in-depth understanding of the causes of the problem in the Tax Administration, while not ignoring its own role;]] [[Notes that there is a need for a parliamentary inquiry into the direction of the Tax Administration and calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-460]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u130	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers and for his commitment to come back with a nice flow schedule and a clear letter on how the inning is going. I have two further questions. One question is about that new fact. How often does that happen? If the Tax Administration for 2017 does check for its own e.g. and/or the money in it, an additional attack can be imposed if one finds something. If exactly the same is reported in 2016, then the Tax Administration can no longer apply post-tax for 2016? It is said to be in that box, but the new fact is not there, whereas it could have been imposed if there had been a check. How is that prevented? In the case of recovery, it is good that monitoring is carried out, so that recovery will be made later. I understand that fewer bailiffs are being deployed. Is this because of dynamic monitoring? Is a lot of money collected with little resources, or are the same number of bailiffs still being deployed? I'm saying this because it seems like tax debts tend to stand around for years and then be collected at once, causing someone to lose everything. We also get internal signals from the Tax Administration that people drive around in a Ferrari, have an e.g. and do not report for years, and that there is no control on such cases. I would like a response from the Secretary of State as to whether he considers that appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Lodders for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer. I am struggling, quite frankly, with the corrections and the question of how we can use the information on the corrections, and in particular the reason for these corrections, for improvements to the whole system. I am thinking of both the system of declaration and the policy. So I hope the Secretary of State can go into that one more time. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers that have been given on the collection. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I started it in the first place: this kind of message is not good for tax morale. But of course it doesn't stimulate all those employees who are working hard at the Tax Administration to make sure that it happens in a good way. So let's make sure that the debate we have had today is the last one, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u133	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u134	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and say honestly, also in response to Mrs Lodder, that I am afraid that it is not the last time we are discussing problems at the Tax Office. Just because of what is happening with the departure scheme, I am afraid that it will really be a very long process, no matter how frustrating we all think it is. I have two more questions. The first is about those categories of tray 1, 2, 3. Mrs Leijten asked questions about it and I did so in the first place. I am also curious as to exactly how these flows run, but we still owe an answer to that question. The second question. Mr Snels rightly said that in 2016 fewer declarations were indeed considered in category 1, also because the group in category 2 was decided not to do so to a large extent. I think that everyone is upset, even though everyone understands the problem of capacity. I have two questions. Are you feeling better next year? Are the declarations of 2017 and 2018 in category 2 to be viewed for a larger part or not? I could, but then I might like to hear it now. And what happened to the capacity? The Secretary of State makes choices, but if there's going to be another incident, like the recent one with the inheritance and gift tax, and there's got to be capacity, then I think it's good that the Chamber is asking more sharply. We therefore need to be informed where that capacity comes from. One of the conclusions, in my view, is that if we put something on something, it will end up in practice with a club with so many people short, but it will also end up with something. I think it's good to have a clearer view of that as a Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u135	Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about five minutes to answer the questions and appreciate the motions. I shall suspend the sitting until 10:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u136	I would ask Members to take their seats again. Three motions have been tabled. From the motions on the items Nos. 459 and 460 do not need to give the Secretary of State an appreciation, while voting on it. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the motions in a minute, but there were also a number of questions. Let me do it first. Let me start with the most important question, the precise breakdown of the flow scheme of the 683,000. Here we go. I was just looking and it is true that not everything is clear in the letter. It's traceable, but we could've written it down better. This is what I'm going to do. We've got 683,000 returns. We already had that figure. Of these, 567,000 go according to report. They'll be taken off in one go. So the remaining 120,000 is still at risk. Of those 120,000, 56,000 go to the highest risk category at once, 25,000 go to the second category and 39 000 go to the third category. The second category is then divided into a bin first category and a bin second category. In 1 we had all the 56,000. So there are 2,500 more, so in total there are 58,500, which are considered completely, with everything. And box 3, there went initially 39,000 and there comes another 22,500 and that brings us to 61,500. So if you finally add these two risk categories together, you'll get to the 120,000 I gave you. Mr. Chairman. Of the 120,000 that come into the risk category, there are 56,000 first risk categories for control and 2,500 after that, so that's 58,500. And 61,500 of those 120,000 go to the lowest category and are finally dropped in accordance with declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u138	So thicker than half the risk selection is taken off in accordance. What policy choices do we need to take away what is now being cut off, halve it or get it all out of the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u139	If you decided to check all that 61,500.. and again, that is certainly not my proposal...................................................................................................................................................... Then you could use the same math to see how many there are. That is a huge capacity that we would need extra and again, that is a choice we do not make. That is where the difference lies, and I shall come to that later on in Mrs Leijten's motion. Look, what she calls "risky" is what we initially select as "maybe something wrong with that." It's not like that all the time. Again, I can't say that enough. It's not often like that at all. Wherever we finally say: yes, there is a risk profile that is high enough that we want to control it................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And so we do want to check it, and we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u140	I'm just asking a question, right? What policy choices would it take, for example, to control half more or to control them all? He can answer that, can't he? That he doesn't want it... But I want to understand what it takes! Moreover, we still do not know what was ultimately wrong with the 58,500, but I am going to ask all this in writing once again, because it makes no one happy. More than half of the declarations identified as risk by the tax administration's automatic system are issued in accordance with the declaration. There are, of course, some mistakes, and I want to know what policy choices are needed to halve them or to undo them altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u141	Again, I said I wouldn't make those policy choices. Mrs Leijten says: but I want to have an insight into that. I can't imagine what policy choices that would be, but it would take a lot of money for a lot of extra inspectors. I and the Cabinet believe that it would not be effective if we chose to do so. I think that's the answer. And in the first term, I was asked for the figures four times. I thought they were already in the answer. Now I give them one more time in the second term, and now it's called a "digit grabbing." I find that a bit unfortunate, because I think Mrs Leijten asked me very explicitly for these figures. I was happy to give them to her in this second term. To take it off like that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u142	We've asked for these figures before. We could have gotten them sooner. We get them now and we should be very grateful for that, of course. But these figures raise further questions. But I also said in my term that this discussion of those figures makes it impossible to ask political questions about what is needed in policy terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u143	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u144	The Secretary of State says he doesn't want to, but I'd like to have an insight into that. He just knows how to say that if you want to control all SMEs every five years, you need 17,000 people for that. If he can say that, he can figure this out, too. I expect this Secretary of State's commitment to give me a list of policy choices that are needed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u146	...to go through all these risky claims. Isn't that what he's willing to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u147	This is the same question, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u148	Yes, and there will be the same answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u149	Yes. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u150	Yes. Mr Nijboer asked if I am prepared to report on all checks. The answer is: yes, I think that is a good idea. Data on book surveys are included in the six-monthly reports. But we can also report on the number of declarations to be processed or processed, because we have those figures. So I will include this request in our annual planning cycle, in line with Mr Nijboer's wishes. So there's a "yes" there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u151	Mrs Leijten, please keep your voice down with your colleagues, because this also disturbs the Secretary of State. He can't concentrate like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard Mrs Leijten speak and thought she might have one more question for me. Mr Snels had that little table where you see that the number of manually handled declarations is decreasing. He asked: wasn't that more capacity specific in that year than in other years? He actually asked me to reflect on that once more, and I say once again: no, in the end it really is a combination of the factors I mentioned. When we look at that second category, we are certainly looking at capacity. But it is not that we would have weighed that aspect in a different way from those other aspects in the past year. In the end, it really is the balance: how much risk is there, where do we see the risks, and what do we want to bet on? And we are talking all the time about the 2016 tax year, in which we also selected a number of thematic points in the second category. They may be other categories in the years before and after, which may also be different in size. But that doesn't mean there's less risk there. So I'm trying to say that we should be careful not just to look at the numbers here, because it's really about the risks. Mrs Lodder was right to ask: do we learn from that in the model? That's how I summarize her question. I said something about this in my first term. We are indeed trying to keep that learning curve sharp. In those selection rules, there are some things that work very well, as I just said. But there are also a number of selection rules that we notice: they hardly give a better risk analysis anymore. We can drop those rules. But we also know, for example, from other tax resources or new trends in the tax world, that there are categories that we would like to look at more. So it's really some kind of learning effect. So we get an ex-post insight into what happened, and so we really look at these attacks further, and we use that insight in advance in risk-oriented supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u153	That's obvious. I had already asked written questions about this. The Secretary of State said: I cannot go into that, because then I will also go into the enforcement strategy. I understand that, but I would like to have some insight into what is happening there. And are there any policy recommendations to be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u154	I do not have it anymore so quickly, but I think I said the following in my first term. I cannot say exactly which part we use, because that would be a bit easy. But in the description of the rules you can see I have mentioned five of them that we are indeed learning from them. I thought I had answered your earlier question, but perhaps it is still not clear enough. I will look again to see if we can answer that in other words. It was really intended to answer your earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u155	In my view, you would come back in writing to a question from Mr Omtzigt. Maybe you could take that question with you right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u156	Sure. Then perhaps I can also make a calculation of the costs that Mrs Leijten has just asked for. I will translate the policy commitment into "what would that cost?" I will see if I can do the same math I just made for SMEs. Mr Omtzig asked two questions. One concerned a new fact. How many percent of the cases? So we don't know that yet, because we haven't. But we expect, for example, on the basis of the sample that Mr Nijboer asked for, that I have more insight into that. Here's what he asked for. Suppose you filled out your declaration in a certain way for the year 2016, is it a new fact if you do exactly the same in 2017? It can't be, because it's the same data. But we can do it for the new tax year. There's nothing you can do for the old tax year. You've established that. But for the new tax year, despite the fact that the tax return is exactly the same, you can indeed establish a new fact. In such a random experiment or in the new risk selection, this could also emerge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u157	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u158	This is a new political fact, because at Question Time the Secretary of State said: then he goes to prison 3, then the problem is not gone because then we can look at him again in a later year. Now I'm presenting to the Secretary of State: if you look at him in a later year on the basis of a new signal, there's nothing you can do. In fact, the Secretary of State is now saying, "That's right." Because if it's not a new fact in that year...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u159	A misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u160	If it's a misunderstanding, I'd like to know where the misunderstanding is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u161	Suppose there are two identical declarations, for 2016 and 2017. Once an attack has been established in 2016 and we would notice a new fact there, you can of course do something. If we don't find a new fact there, you won't be able to do anything in that old tax year. I think we agreed on that right away. But I think Mr Omtzigt's question was as follows. There was no new fact in 2016 and the same declaration was lodged in 2017. Can you do something there? The new year 2017 has not yet been adopted. Even with the same declaration, you can still establish a new fact. I think that is no different from what I said earlier. When you ask if you can go from tray 3 to another tray, can you do something with that? The answer is yes, if you notice a new fact. I think we're all in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u162	In Bak 3, therefore, there are more than half of the risky claims. That's 61,500, I understand now. With regard to how many of these 61,500 declarations is a new fact noted, long-term? Isn't that what happens in a few cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u163	Exactly what I just said. We don't know, because we didn't check these. That's why they came into that third risk category. I cannot rule on how many cases that may be. We can take a swing at it, but that doesn't make much sense. We can, on the basis of a sample in that third risk category, which 22,500, perhaps get closer to the possible answer to Mr Omtzigt's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u164	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u165	Mr President, concluding. Perhaps the Secretary of State could indicate in writing how many of these 58,500 checks were corrected and, above all, how many of those 2,500, which went from Box 2 to Box 1, have been corrected. Then we have an idea how risky these uncontrolled returns are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u166	At least I don't have that answer right now. I don't know if we're gonna keep up with that, but I'm gonna say we're gonna see if we can take this in the same letter. So there will be another letter with a number of elements and perhaps we can take this into account. Then Mr Omtzigt also had a question about the bailiffs. The bailiffs are an incredibly important part of our entire compliance strategy, but they are also the final part of the entire recovery. In the end, it's only a very small part that we're still trying to get to us through a bailiff. So it is very important, but it has a less significant effect on the total outstanding tax debt, I think just for an explanation. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked about this flow schedule. I have not been able to explain that in a flow, but at least orally. He also mentioned the capacity that comes with it. There are so many thousand people in SMEs. Of course, they still have to be worked in, as I said. They're not ready to do all the risky selections right away. But he asked if that would eventually lead to more being looked at in the second category. I have also indicated in my written answers that you cannot say one-on-one that they will go there, but that you can say that as you have more capacity, you have more supervisory capacity. Then you put supervision back where you see the most risk. And yes, if you make the capacity large enough, there is guaranteed to be a part that can then look at the risky returns in the Vpb with SMEs. In that sense it will be, but it is not a kind of one-on-one. We have now hired a number of people, but it is not the case that the same numbers are being added to supervision. That is not so direct, but of course that will eventually happen. Then I'll get to the motions. Mrs Leijten's very first motion is the motion in part No. 458, in which the government is invited to check all risky declarations and to inform the Chamber of the results annually. Then we come to the debate on what we call 'risky'. In my world, those 58,500 in the first category are risky. We all do. If she thinks "no, I want them all, so everything in Category 2 too," I don't think that's a good idea, as I said. Nor would that be an efficient use of our capacity. For those reasons, I will then advise against that motion. Mr. Chairman. The two motions that follow are indeed not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u167	Before you go any further, there is one more question about Mrs Leijten's motion. I do not think it would be useful to start the debate again, because we have had that, but you will have the opportunity to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u168	I understood why the Secretary of State initially did not answer that he wanted to identify the policy choices needed to get that motion, but that he did later indicate that he was going to do so, namely because he was going to do something for Mrs Lodder, for which he thanked. It is common for things to be promised to the coalition, but not to the opposition, while we must be able to have an equal position. So thank you also to Mrs Lodders for making that possible. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u169	But your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u170	When does he think he can have that ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u171	Moreover, I do not think that the latter commitment was enforced because I just made a commitment to Mrs Lodders. It was more that later, when I was thinking a little bit about this policy commitment, I thought: why can I calculate one and not the other? Suppose we do 61,500 checks. I'm sure we have a few hours per check, so I can construct something like that. Then I thought, "I might be able to do that on paper." It was a bit more in those policy choices for me, because yes, it's just about budgetary costs, and it's always at the expense of something. But here's what I'm gonna do. I think that's what Mrs Leijten wanted to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u172	Very briefly, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u173	I told you, thank you for that. But when does the Secretary of State think he'll finish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u174	That letter will soon follow. I just heard that part of that letter will be there in three weeks, so at least it's in three weeks. I almost wanted to close by saying that both motions that followed next, the motion Edgar Mulder c.s. in piece No. 459 and the Van Rooijen/Leijten motion in part No. 460, don't ask me anything. I will not comment on this, except that we have, of course, talked about this great project before and that we have done a great deal of effort to provide a good answer to the problems we have all encountered, both in the Cabinet and in the Chamber, in the way we are now working with the Chamber for this new annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-16.u176	The votes on the motions tabled shall take place after the recess on Tuesday. In my mind, that is March 5th. I thank the Secretary of State, the MPs and the people who have been watching. I'm closing the meeting and I wish everyone a very good recess.
