ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the settlement of damage and the strengthening operation of the Groningen gas pipeline. In particular, I would like to welcome the Groningen people from Groningen, who have come here with buses, to the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and, of course, the Members of Parliament. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	And that was a one-time thing! We really shouldn't, for the rest of the debate. I assume you're clapping for everyone; let's leave it there! But you are not supposed to clap during the debate, scream things or show your approval or disapproval in any way. But the Groningers know that very well, because it is not the first time that the Groningers are here. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Here we are again. Another gas debate, and many Groningers have lost the confidence that it will ever be okay. After years of plundering, cheating and sacrificing for the profit appetite of NAM, Shell, Exxon and State, many are murmuring, angry, tired, sick and/or depressed. I find it incredibly painful that after so many years we should have another debate and still have to fight for something so self-evident: security and justice. There is a reality in The Hague and a reality in Groningen that is at odds with that. The reality of the Hague is the Minister's frame: the gas crane is closed and I am working with the region. The Groninger reality is the reality of waiting. The Groninger reality is being crushed in a bureaucratic monstrosity. The Groninger reality is a settlement of damages that is slower than ever. The Groninger reality is that the reinforcement of unsafe houses remains virtually silent. The minister said shortly after his arrival: "I do not want to be the wrecker of Groningen." But many Groningers have been demolished. Minister, how could you let this happen? I ask that, of course, through the chairman. How is it that a year after the quake at Zeerijp, with many Groningers, things get worse and not better? That 87% of the Groningers don't know what they're up to, as the Association of Own House calculated? In July I offered a black book with dozens of victims from Groningen and Drenthe with old damage from gas extraction. From the stories spoke an unprecedented desperation and inhuman treatment of victims of gas extraction and your policies. Today, the Minister has received another black book, and I would also like to offer it to the President and Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	They're updates of old stories and new stories. From this, a deafening image speaks: it does not get better. Jos Stellink is new in the black book. He was the manager of the village pub of Loppersum, where he also lived upstairs. Because inspection showed that it was unsafe, a fence came around his building and it was closed. The reinforcement could not start until September 2019 at the earliest. The reality of The Hague is: the building is going to be strengthened, isn't it? The Groninger reality is: Jos loses his home and his business. He's gonna have financial and psychological problems in return. His daughter can't sleep with him for months. Jos is on the ground and the end is not in sight. Cor and Elly Hoogeveen were also in the old black book. A counter-expert found that they have $80,000 worth of damage. The NAM offered €10,000. Meanwhile, the roof has shifted on the wallboards and the interior walls descend. They're waiting for the arbitrator; they're waiting for TCMG. The assessment of new injury may take 15 months. The reality of The Hague is: we'll handle that damage, won't we? The Groninger reality is: waiting for countless agencies in a broken house. Cor and Elly say they've completely lost confidence. Many of the injured survive in the waiting position and feel that they are participating in an absurd lottery. Mr. Chairman. The minister admitted earlier that the government had failed. A failure of non-Dutch proportions still is, a government failure for which a parliamentary inquiry would be appropriate as far as I am concerned. But now, a year later, and again a lot of absurdistic failure later, we see another minister. On Monday in Groningen, he seemed to shift responsibility. It wouldn't be him. I would like to ask the Minister if he really means that. I'd say that's a new low. I heard the minister say, "I'm not a contractor." What do you mean, I'm not a contractor? Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, it has been agreed that we will only gain gas if it is safe, that damages will be compensated, that people will not have to live in an unsafe house. After the government has made nearly 300 billion dollars in gas extraction and let people live in broken and unsafe houses for years, the minister says: yes, but I am not a contractor, am I? That can't be true, can it? No, you're not a contractor, you're responsible. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with me that it really doesn't give a pass to look away now and shift responsibility? Does the Minister agree with me that apologies to the Groningen people are in order? Civil society organisations, municipalities and the province are united. They have five logical and just demands that we can work with. They have taken on their responsibilities and, as far as I am concerned, we accept those proposals. In the previous black book, I pleaded for a general's pardon for all the damage, and I do it again. Damage handling is slower than ever. There is a reservoir of damage and only 2% of the damage in the municipality of Loppersum was assessed last year. Minister, are you prepared to accept a general's pardon and to automatically award and repair all outstanding damage to TCMG and NAM? Is the Minister prepared to let the people who are still fighting through the arbitrator and the judge immediately fall under a general's pardon? Mr. Chairman. Backup! Backup! Backup! In the spring, the Minister stopped the reinforcement by putting a line through all agreements with Groningen. First, the reinforcement would start after 2 July, then it became after the summer, then end of September, finally beginning 2019 and the process is still not in progress. How is this possible? Mr. Chairman. Groningen wants clarity now. Will the reinforcement take place on the basis of the NAM computer model or on the basis of reality? Does his statement that money isn't the problem just for homes that come out of the NAM model, or for all homes? We have just received a letter in which it seems as if the Minister is meeting the region, but nothing is less true. I would ask the Minister, through the President, to accept all the proposals of the region and to ensure that local implementation plans of municipalities are leading. Mr. Chairman. My last sentence. Everyone, the gallery and myself, has been through so many debates and we are very often disappointed. Let not today become the day of beautiful words and promises again. But let today become the day of deeds. Let us now finally take over all the proposals of the region. The government, the government, has failed long enough. It's time for justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Mr Sienot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	I have just heard Mrs Beckerman passionately and very closely talking about the problem, and rightly so. She also just showed a movie in front of us. We've received a black book with all the poignant stories. Do I hear the SP say that what the drivers are now sending is a green paper for the solution? Is she really willing to work on that with us? So it's about the province's solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	We just received a letter, special. Civil society organisations, the Groninger Soil Movement, the Groninger Gas Council, municipalities and provinces all agree. They have five very logical proposals. We just got a letter from the minister. Then it looks like he's going along with that, but nothing is more true. I find that incredibly painful. We're doing some kind of word game again. Yes, I am prepared to implement all these proposals one-on-one. I think that Groningen should now be leading and that the government should serve and simply take care of the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	It is very good to hear that we agree that we have a basis for working on the future for the Groningers. We at D66 see it the same way. What we consider to be very important is that we make that future together. There are different solutions in the driver's letter. Suppose one of these solutions is not exactly what the SP wants, but that another solution is in place because it will be faster, a solution also mentioned by the drivers. For example, you are talking about a general's pardon, but it can also be done by automatic damage handling. Are you prepared to go for that, simply to solve the problems as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	Are you insinuating that the solutions put forward by the Minister in his letter are better than the solutions of the region? In my opinion, there was also an immediate response today by Groninger administrators who are opposed, they are fine words but in fact receive very little mandate from the region. The NAM computer model remains leading and not people's plans, while people have lost control of their future for so long. So I sincerely hope that you will follow Groningen today and not the coalition interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	You may briefly explain what you mean, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. In the letter from the directors that you and I have just embraced as a Green Paper for the future, a Green Paper to move forward, there are different solutions to the problems of damage and strengthening. What I ask is: is for you ultimately the guiding principle what the SP wants, or is the guiding principle speed and an energetic approach in the interest of the Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	I think it should be perfectly clear: what the Groningers themselves want must be leading. They've been fooled by the government for so long. A parliamentary survey is appropriate. I hope you will also support that proposal. I hope, however, that I can tell you that the Minister's letter does not contain the same solutions as the solutions that Groningers wants. I hope that was an answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are two worlds: the political-administrative world in which the conflict of interest rages between the earning model of Shell and Exxon Mobil and the State on the one hand, and the security of citizens and security of supply on the other, and the everyday world of duped Groningers on the other. They are still in deep uncertainty, despair and horror about all this market and government failure. They fear the roaring dragon under their house and do not yet see light at the end of the pitch black tunnel in which they sit. "When will my damage finally be compensated, my house strengthened or my house demolished?" "When will the new building be ready?" In short: "When am I finished with all the misery, can I live safely and work safely on my future and my children's?" Of course, a lot seems to have happened since Zeerijp. The TCMG was kicked out of the ground. The gas tap closes in time. But also the whole approach of the reinforcement operation went on the shovel, which almost stopped the actual reinforcement. Anyone who adds up to the enormous backlog in the handling of old damages and the fact that there are more and more damages than can be dealt with, does not escape the conclusion that the steps in the political-administrative world have not yet had a positive effect in Groningen itself. Does the Minister recognise the gap between these two realities? Did he also experience this during his work visit to the region last Monday? What additional efforts is he going to make to close this gap as quickly as possible? In any case, the region expects more from it and has translated it into five pressing opinions, which I believe are clear, concrete and feasible. However, the Minister sees this differently, as is evident from his letter which he wrote in response to my request. There are nice words in there, like "we take things with us," but I've heard them before. The question is, do I take them over, do I enter them? That is why I have specific questions for the Minister. I would like to call on him to do more concrete things, not only to speed things up, but also to give the victims more control over their own situation, their own home and their own future. Is the Minister prepared to give the TCMG the mandate to issue urgent decisions, so that simple damages can be repaired on the basis of a tender and with a sample of ex post consideration of whether the contractors who repair the damage at reasonable prices have made it possible to recover? Is the Minister prepared to ensure that each of the victims is given one case counselor, who will accompany him or her both in the damages settlement and in the reinforcement operation, regardless of whether this case counselor is now formally employed by the NCG, at the TCMG or at the new institute? The latter doesn't matter. The Minister has already promised me that Susan Top's idea of giving residents a building depot should be involved in the development of the reinforcement operation. He was gonna take that, but I don't hear and read about it anymore. Give owners of buildings in the earthquake area a building depot that allows them to do whatever they want: strengthen their premises, maintain them, sustain them or move them, whatever. Will the Minister now seriously consider and implement this idea? The minister says in his letter that the financial security is here now, that the money is there. He also says that in advance in the cash with the municipalities there is the money to make that reinforcement possible. Yet the experience in the region is very different. How is that possible? How hard is the guarantee he gives in the letter that it's financially settled? It is also crucial that the Chamber should be able to keep its finger on the pulse if things are not going well at the moment when the new reinforcement operation is being carried out. Actually, there's no clue for that. We do not have an indicator that is sad and indicates how many houses need to be strengthened in the first, second, third or fourth years. We in the Chamber have no way of controlling that. It can't be. We simply need to have an indicator for the region, for the deputy but also for us. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Furthermore, I have a question based on what I read this morning in De Volkskrant. This is a bit out of the order of the debate, but it is also really about the extraction of gas and its reversal. We have received a letter stating that the gas tap is being turned off successfully, but a survey in a national newspaper shows that large consumers see major problems in switching to other forms of energy and abandoning Groningen gas. What the hell is true? I can't rhyme those two. In addition, I would also like to announce that I would like to table a motion for the launch of a parliamentary inquiry in the second term. I really think that now is the time to clarify this point as well. Such a survey also takes time, also to prepare it. I call on the Chamber to take that time this year, so that such a survey will actually take place in 2020. It is important, also for the satisfaction of the wounded. But it is also important to learn lessons for all kinds of other mining activities. I was just at the presentation of the movie. I heard the Minister say: we created a situation in which the causer of the damage could go on for a very long time and then was also given the responsibility to determine whether there is damage and whether or not it would be compensated. It's really crazy that that could have happened. We need to get to the bottom of that. I hope that the coalition parties will now agree to conduct this survey and that we will also set a date for this. Then, this year, everything can be done to achieve the pace of damage handling and the reinforcement operation, but next year, in 2020, we will have that parliamentary survey. I hope, therefore, that colleagues will agree. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you, Mr President. "I wait," that's what the new series is called in the Dagblad van het Noorden. People with damage are waiting for years for a solution to their problems. Today it was about a lady from Delfzijl, with damage to the walls behind the kitchen. She said, "My case is not the worst; I hope that other people will be helped sooner." But this is illustrative for what happens to a lot of Groningers. First, a promise, and then there will be clarity. Then it will be postponed, adjusted and postponed again. And there's still no solution. This lady has received an offer of €416,02 for the problems that need to be solved. That's far too little. She says, "I'm not giving up." There are no dozens of examples of this. This is the eighth article in the series, but there are not hundreds of examples, not even a few thousand. There are 17,500 to 18,000 Groningers in this situation. It can't go on like this. The damage handling, strengthening and providing perspective after the damage of the gas extraction have become a thick mess. That needs to be solved. The PvdA has given some thought to what is needed to regain the trust of Groningen. That confidence is at its lowest point at the moment; you sometimes think it can't go deeper, but it's fallen even deeper. As a group, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to put a line under the old cases and to say to all those who are now in all these different damage paths that we are simply compensating for the damage. You have old damages, you have lawsuits and you have cases with the NAM or the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage, which people now receive a letter: wait only fifteen months; then maybe someone will come along. Fifteen months, Chairman, and your house is broken! That's unacceptable. That's what the Minister himself says, but it'll keep happening. The bodies which have now been set up and which have been announced with much tamtam have also supported the PvdA: the NAM should be able to do their job. Mr. Chairman. I do see a few drawbacks; I want to be honest about that too. There are also people who haven't reported and who have been waiting. The others will be right. Is that even fair? And are there any people who may have reported a higher amount of damage than the claim actually justifies? Some of them will undoubtedly be among them. And We gather all things together and see what wrong has been done to a people. People are really waiting two, three or four years, which they haven't been able to do anything about. It's government failure of non-Dutch proportions. The Minister is right about that, but he is right about it. That is one thing: choose the human approach, not the technocratic, legal approach, which puts people completely on hold. Two. If we continue in this way, if the Minister continues in this way, with 17,500 to 18,000 cases that still have to be dealt with with with far too few inspectors and with far too few people who can do so, I am convinced that this will continue for two, three or four years. Then it doesn't get any better, and then trust gets worse. There's got to be a line underneath. That whole committee can't handle it at all. Anyone can see that coming from far and wide. If you know that, do this. Thirdly, what is the risk of Groningers cheating, as suggested by Onno Hoes from Haarlemmermeer? They'd be lucky seekers. We've all been to people's homes a lot. This is not only true for the PvdA; it is true for everyone, including the coalition. Anyone who has a little feeling can see that there are no people out there who are cheating by making claims that don't make sense. You just see people who are in deep shit, who are being treated unfairly, as everyone would say, and who just need to come up with a decent solution. Maybe the Chamber has it, too, but you, Minister, have the power to do so. I call upon you to use it. Put a line on it. Compensate everything. Of course, that will be more expensive than any individual case, at least at micro level, but do it anyway, choose it anyway. I think that's what it takes to regain a little confidence. Mr President, that was the first point. The second is about the following. The region has come up with five opinions in common. They still call it "advisements," but there's a huge urge behind it: "Do this now, because this is your last chance. Your last chance has actually been, but we're offering you another chance to get out. Take full control of this!" I saw the Minister's letter, which came here an hour before the debate. You simply send the people in Groningen into the forest, while they can't see the forest through the trees, with all these procedures, positions and legal situations. Take this! In any case, the argument that the Minister has used occasionally to my annoyance, namely 'the region itself is divided among itself', cannot be used. Here the mayors, the aldermen, the Groninger Gas Council, the Groninger Soil Movement and the people have signed together. Take it from a to z. That is really necessary to restore confidence. Mr. Chairman. I come to the farmers, the farmers. The SGP, the CDA and the Christian Union have also drawn a lot of attention to this. I also mention, for the initiates, the Munniksma Committee. There has been a whole package of measures and proposals. Take over that too! They are now being put back into a process and they are being discussed again. But take them over. That's been well thought out. You set up that committee yourself, Minister. Now we have to wait for months to see if they're taken over. Mr President, I come to my final words. It's a call to the Minister. See the misery, feel the powerlessness and listen to the Groningers. Take over the proposals they make one-on-one, from a to z. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mrs Akerboom on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. We are a year further after the severe earthquake at Zeerijp. This earthquake made the gas extraction in Groningen a top priority of the minister. He acted swiftly, took decisions and took steps which his predecessor considered impossible. I am thinking in particular of the intention to turn off the gas tap. But in spite of all the efforts, it does not succeed in providing the Groningen with security and guarantees. Uncertainty and mistrust continue to prevail. We see a lot of words, but no deeds yet. Nothing has changed in practice for the Groningen people. Now I understand that there are no quick fixes for the "government failure of non-Dutch proportions," as the Minister mentioned the consequences of the gas extraction itself in November 2017. At the same time, I think that more certainty can be provided to the Groningen people in a fairly simple way. That starts with actually turning off the gas tap. What firm guarantee does the Minister provide that within four years gas extraction has actually fallen to 12 billion cubic metres and has stopped completely by 2030 at the latest? I'd like a response. For the time being, the phasing-out of gas extraction is a closing point. The gas tap will not close until the gas demand goes back, rather than the other way around. In fact, this means that the Groningen depend on the goodwill of the 200 large consumers in the Netherlands, especially now that only 9 of them may be subject to an obligation. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that obligation really exists for those nine largest consumers. And what demand does the Minister make to the other 191 large consumers? At first, the Minister urged them to get rid of the Groningen gas as quickly as possible, but by now they seem to have been given free rein to decide when to stop using natural gas. And this while the negotiations for the climate agreement have made it painfully clear that goodwill to change is lacking in many large consumers. Let me say first of all that I think it is very good that the Minister of these 191 large consumers wants them to make a direct transition to truly sustainable alternatives. But without a time frame and an ultimatum attached to it, both Groningen and the climate have nothing to do with this. Mr. Chairman. The emotions about the reinforcement operation and the damage handling seem to be only increasing. In November, the plan of action of the Groningen reinforcement operation became public. Is it true that Groningen leaders and interest groups believe that the plan has been imposed unilaterally on them and that this is why they have not signed it? What was the outcome of the consultation process? How then did it come out earlier that month that the region and the Empire have reached agreement? Meanwhile, the reinforcement operation has been stationary for almost a year and the operation is stuck with the HRA computer model that is quite inadequate. It just doesn't work out the thousands of claims and new claims are constantly being made. There are now over 17,500 files open. There's a lot of people who've been waiting for years and have no idea what they're up to. They don't even know if their house is safe. As a result, Groninger's physical and mental health is worse than it was a year ago. People are crippled and can stand up for themselves more difficultly, the Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman noted. Making pace and wanting to determine in detail causes of damage simply don't go together. If the Minister chooses to continue along the same path, Groningen will remain in misery for years to come. For the sake of Groninger's health, a general seems to be the only way out. How much longer does the Minister want to wait? Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals has previously called for attention to the physical and mental health of Groningers and in particular to that of the children. In 2018, the Kinderombudsman found that children's interests in the Groningen gas extraction area are not sufficiently taken into account in decisions. There were also no facilities and care aimed at protecting children from the tensions and stress caused by natural gas extraction and reinforcement. How did the Minister implement the Chamberwide motion asking for more attention to be paid to children in the Groningen gas extraction area and to their mental resilience? I'd like a response. I would like to draw particular attention to the victims of the stacked mining industry. Around Veendam, for example, there is serious soil decline and damage due to the stacked mining, i.e. both gas extraction and salt extraction. These people are sometimes sent from the locker to the wall more often. People around small gasfields also suffer from damage to their homes and feelings of insecurity. In the meantime, this has also attracted the attention of many local groups, and now it deserves the attention of the Minister. Stop the gas extraction in small fields and give these people the same rights as the dupeds of the Groningen gas extraction. Mr President, concluding. There has been a long and structural failure of everything around the gas extraction at Groningen. Residents feel completely abandoned. We need to get to the bottom of this. That is why I conclude with the request made several times by the Animal Party: to launch a parliamentary inquiry into this government failure of non-Dutch proportions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mrs Akerboom. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Kafka in Groningen: that's it. Mr President, I realise that these are big words, but my group cannot put it any other way. We're seeing a minister with good intentions here. Upon his arrival he said that Groningen had more priority for him than the climate agreement and in Zeerijp he decided to bring gas extraction to zero. And there's money. It's all been rigged up, like the new damage protocol. The NAM is and is taken out of the process of damage handling and reinforcement. But, Madam President, how can we stand here today and stand where we stand? The damage settlement is still viscous. At the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen 17,500 claims are now on the pile. Someone said he reported his damage last April, got a receipt, and then it stayed quiet. What else does the TCMG need to get the damage settlement in order, I ask. As far as the ChristianUnion is concerned, damages up to a certain amount are simply reimbursed on the basis of the contractor's account and the contractor is immediately employed. Does the Minister intend to introduce it? The old damages cases may have already been dealt with for the minister, but there are people, often with large damages, who are being shipped off by the NAM with a relatively small amount. They feel tired and I got signals that they are not being justiced despite the role of the arbitrator. Would the Minister like to take another look at this? On the basis of the opinion of the Mining Council, a plan of action for strengthening has been established. Houses have been mapped and classified into three risk profiles, but most people still don't know where they stand. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the status of the so-called HRA model. It is helpful for prioritisation, but eventually there will be an inspection for each home. Is that how the Minister sees it? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes inspections have already been carried out and people do not understand why they are suddenly lining up for a re-evaluation. There would be a dialogue with the residents, but the residents received a letter saying "To the inhabitants of this building." What do you mean, the resident center? I'll ask. There are 1,500 p50 houses and around them p90 houses that can be reinforced area-oriented. We can, I would almost say, start with that today. What are we waiting for? Everyone points at each other and nothing happens in the meantime. Municipalities want to get to work, but they can't because there is uncertainty about the money. Mr. Chairman. You don't buy a house if you don't know if you can get the mortgage. I'm getting signals that for every reinforcement project, municipalities have to go to the Ministry for a signature or that plans can only be made for the first three months. Then how can you put an entire village in a schedule? How can municipalities then implement their own plan of approach? Is the Minister prepared to say here today that all the costs of necessary reinforcement will be reimbursed and that municipalities will immediately be given the space to implement these reinforcement plans? Only then will municipalities really be given the direction of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	I welcome the fact that the Christian Union is also critical of the way it is now going in Groningen. I have a question about the comment about the HRA model being used. Mrs Dik says that this is a helpful thing to determine which houses should be strengthened. I think it is a monstrosity that only causes misery in the region and is totally unsuitable for it. That's what it turns out at all the meetings. Can Mrs Dik explain again why she thinks it is a useful model?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	Last year we received the integrated advice of the Mines Council. This model has been put forward to prioritize. That is also what the model is meant for: to prioritize. In the end, there will also have to be an inspection. Of course I have also heard the sounds of people who first lived in a so-called safe house and now suddenly do not have a safe house. I am glad that the model has put forward, because these houses need to be addressed. There are also people who thought that their house should be strengthened because it was unsafe. It turns out these houses are safe now. I understand very well that this story is very difficult and almost inexplicable. That is why I call for real dialogue with the people. Don't put a note on the bus "To the residents of this building"; there really needs to be a conversation. So yes, the model is helpful. It's also scientifically validated. It is not finished; we must continue to improve it. In the meantime, we must do what we have to do, namely to strengthen the most unsafe houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	I don't trust that model for a penny, because it's being used for something it's not meant for. It's meant to look at what the macro damage is, but not to see what the risk is for the security at this place of this individual building, this house. I understand that the Groningers are very worried about whether it is true that they first got a sticker "unsafe" and now a sticker "safe" based on an incorrect model. So as far as I'm concerned, we're throwing that thing in the trash. I do not understand why Mrs Dik insists on this, given the misery that is being caused by this model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	I also fully understand the inconvenience, including the inconvenience that Mr Nijboer is now expressing. Of course, I also spoke with the people from Groningen. At the same time, this is the model we have. There is no better place and we will have to do it with this. In the meantime, we must work on improving the model. This model has been scientifically validated. We have to do what we can. At least this model has made it clear where the areas with the most unsafe homes are. This model has been very helpful. We really need to take those homes as a priority right now. That is what I am asking the Minister today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	Finally, very briefly, Mr President. This model says two-under-one-hood: one half is safe and the other one is not. That's the basis of this model. The only thing that works is an individual inspection of houses in an individual place. Is it on a sandback or on peat? How close to the earthquake zone? At the edges? What's the construction? And I don't know what else. Does Mrs Dik-Faber not agree with me? Isn't that the only way you can tell it's really safe in a house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	Those were literally my words. This model is helpful in prioritizing, and then there will really have to be an inspection in the home to actually determine whether a reinforcement should take place and in what way. Those were exactly my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mrs Dik-Faber and I agree that the settlement of damages is disastrous. And the reinforcements aren't really going: people have been in an unsafe home for years. It's really very dramatic. But the special thing is that the whole region, municipalities and provinces, but also interest groups and action groups together, have a plan. Are you prepared to accept those five recommendations, including a general pardon for the damages and including the municipal plans, one-on-one, I ask through you, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	I have seen the plan of the region and I think that this offers very good points of departure, which I have also incorporated in my contribution. I am happy to embrace the suggestions and get to work with them. Before I go any further, I'll wait for the follow-up question, because I'm sure Mrs Beckerman is going to ask it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	Yeah, 'cause I think "links" are really skinny. I think that the letter sent by the Minister in response is a real shame. It's such a broad-based plan, and then take it off like that. The Christian Union mayor says that it is really disappointing, that it is annoying how the minister keeps avoiding his responsibility and that there is no room or insufficient room for municipalities. Don't you agree with the mayor of Central Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	Is that Mrs. Dik-Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	Shouldn't we take over all those points one-on-one, because Groningen has been waiting too long?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	I believe that a constructive plan has come to us from the region. I believe that Mr Sienot called it a 'green book', and I agree with that word. It is constructive ideas that we should now get to work and work out. I read the Minister's letter, too. I have read in general that the Minister also wants to get to work on this. At the same time, I must also point out that it is not concrete enough. So in my contribution, I have specific questions for the Minister. If they do not lead to concrete commitments, I will put forward a motion on all parts to ensure that the elements put forward by the region will also be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	I'm not getting much sense out of this. Are they constructive proposals that we are going to take over elements of, or do we say: Groningen has been plundered long enough by the government, and that is why we take them over one-on-one, precisely because it has been carried so widely? Are we going to take over elements and speak fine words, or are we going to act and take over them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	Once again, I believe that the region has put forward good, constructive ideas, and I am willing to embrace them. I've incorporated those ideas into my contribution. I am having the debate with the Minister on this. And if that does not lead to concrete commitments, then I think it is our job as representatives of the people, of Mrs Beckerman and of me, to turn that into motions. And that's how it's gonna happen. Wait until the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	I have a question for Mrs Dik-Faber. I hear her heartfelt words talking about the "contractors' variant," so to speak, in the dispute settlement. That's what I've been talking about. I hope we can do business in that today. I also hear her speak worthy words about speeding up the implementation of the reinforcement operation. That HRA model really has its limitations. That all has to be much better. But I would also like to zoom in on the issue of a'smart indicator'. That's English, but that means that there just have to be goals and figures: how many houses are we going to strengthen every year in the coming years? Does Mrs Faber agree with me that such an indicator is crucial in order to be able to supervise the execution of this operation as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	I understand that Mr Van der Lee is asking that question. I just want to think about it, because on the one hand I think that such an instrument would be extremely helpful, but at the same time we decentralised the implementation of the reinforcement plan. We handed it over to the municipalities; we gave them the direction. Their primary responsibility now lies with them. There's also a city council that oversees that. That's what's causing my hesitation. I understand the question; at the same time, the municipalities and municipal councils are now in the process of implementing the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	They certainly have a role in this, but they will have the same question. They too will need to know what the targets are for measuring whether those targets are met in implementation. I would therefore ask Mrs Dik-Faber to think carefully about this. If she does not want to support this, will she at least come up with an idea that will allow elected politicians, at whatever level, to check whether we are making sufficient progress in the reinforcement operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	I fully agree with Mr Van der Lee on this. We've agreed that the unsafe homes need to be reinforced. The people in Groningen must be able to live as safely as the people in the rest of the Netherlands. Local plans of action are being developed. Those plans of approach must be controlled by the local parliament. Of course, we must also be well informed about the progress here in the House of Representatives. I would like to think about the instrument that goes with it, but I fully agree that we need to keep a close eye on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. Many residents have to do with intangible damage, damage to homes and the reinforcements. These routes run along different routes, while it is agreed with the region that residents can reach a single point of contact. I also see that couple opportunities remain, so people are in a renovation twice. Is the Minister prepared to ensure a coherent assessment and handling of damage and reinforcement by one institute, the Institute for Mining Damage? This proposal has also been put forward by the region. Mr. Chairman. According to the Christian Union, two things are important for people to regain confidence in the future. They must see and see that the reinforcement is getting under way; agreements must be kept. However, the picture is that policy is constantly changing. That is in big things, because what happens when a new NPR is established with probably a more favourable scenario as a result of the phasing-out of gas extraction? Will housing in the group P90 not come at all? Residents should at least be given an inspection, as stated in my motion for a resolution. But it's also in small things, such as inspections that are all of a sudden recordings and swap houses called circular homes, as if it had something to do with energy neutrality. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the €7,000 that property owners get to do something extra in terms of sustainability, for example to cover part of the cost of a heat pump or extra insulating glass. But this amount is now often included in the construction to make a reinforced home meet the latest building standard. You can't do that, can you? Finally, a number of other points. I am pleased to see that the two mental caregivers have started working and that the Minister has carried out my motion on that point. I think they can do valuable work for the people in Groningen. The report "Bevingsstoud zorg" in Groningen sketches an image of the future care landscape in relation to the reinforcement program. How is it prevented from endlessly arguing about what costs are or are not part of the reinforcement? Today I would also like to draw attention to the agricultural sector. It is precisely in this case that there are complex harms. Then it is often also about asbestos remodelling and necessary changes in management. The responsibility for an integrated solution is now being placed on the farmer. Is the Minister prepared to set up an agri-business window in consultation with the parties concerned? What about the implementation of the broad-signed motion on the position of children in the earthquake area? Mr President, I will conclude. The good news is, the gas can close sooner. But the mess has only gotten bigger. Just get to work. These are not my words, but the words of a lady who does not have any problems herself, but has to watch with her eyes how people have gotten mushy. Everything is ready for execution. All dominoes are set up. They're all in a row, but who's gonna push the first stone so it all moves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	I have stated in my term why I think it is important that we in the Chamber also clarify whether and, if so, when we are conducting a parliamentary survey on gas extraction and the treatment of damages. I'd like to hear how the Christian Union feels about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	My group also believes that there should be a parliamentary survey. It is clear that the time at which this survey is being carried out is getting closer and closer. I would like to discuss this with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mrs. Dik-Faber closed with the statue of the domino stone that needs to be pushed. Doesn't the Christian Union think it's normal for the minister to give that push today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mrs Mulder answers the question I asked at the end of my speech. I think it would be good if today was given a little push and the Minister could give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	I don't know what kind of dominoes you and I are watching, but I see a crappy structure falling apart from misery. There's a lot to be done before there's a little confidence in Groningen again. It's not a matter of pushing it in the right direction, and then it'll all be fine. So I don't recognize Mrs Dik-Faber's metaphor at all. Can she go into that again? What little push is it gonna take to get things back together? I think everything has to change fundamentally. That's what the region says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	I've had a lot of conversations with people from the region over the last few days. I assume that Mr Nijboer has done the same. I have also spoken with leaders and representatives of the people of the Christian Union. In my view, the idea has emerged that municipalities have embarked on a plan for strengthening housing, but that they are not yet in any way in favour of implementing it. At the same time it has been said from the Chamber and also by this Minister that the money is available, the models are there, the institutions are there, get to work. They're pointing at each other. And that's my question today: who's gonna make the decision, who's gonna give the first push? I think there's a lot in the scaffolding and we can start strengthening the p50 houses tomorrow. Insiders know what it's about. We don't even have to wait for these p50 houses to deal with the municipalities. We can just start, but it won't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	I see an immense problem of 18,000 damage cases in which there is no prospect of a solution at all. There's a letter from the region with five tough demands. It is said that all the trust is gone, but this is the least that is needed. That letter was drawn up after the Minister's visit. So there is no agreement with the Minister. The Minister was there on Monday, and after he was there, people say that these five things have to come out of this debate and then maybe we can work on a little restoration of confidence again. There's quite a gap between that and "just a little push, just a little clarity about who's dealing with the finances and then we'll be there." I think we're really a long way from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	I have raised a number of points in my speech, including the question of compensation. My group is also very concerned about this. When it comes to backup, I think there's been a lot going on. But it's not coming off the ground. And that's what must be done very hard. I think that today we can give each other that last push so that we can get to work tomorrow, because the people of Groningen deserve that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. In September, the EZK Committee visited Groningen. There it appeared that clear agreements were finally made between the Empire and the region on the strengthening of housing. Then you expect the performance to begin afterwards. It's just... it's like nothing's gonna happen. In the many conversations with directors, residents and entrepreneurs from Groningen that I have had recently, the image emerges that everyone is waiting for everyone. I am told that sometimes up to eight times a project is being negotiated. And then I think of Kafka, just like Mr Jansen. And that's in an area where too many people are out of their minds, because they don't know what they're up to. If I ask the Minister where the problem is, because the region approaches me that the money doesn't come loose, then I also get to hear just before Christmas that money shouldn't be a problem. In practice, therefore, this is just as different and decision-making projects take far too long. As GroenLinks has already argued, there are no clear conditions and deadlines. The same applies to taking responsibility. The effect is that everything stops in practice. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Because Minister, you're responsible for money and capacity, right? Unsafe houses must be strengthened as soon as possible so that our inhabitants are safe. Is the Minister going to make sure that buttons are cut? After the release of the Fazanthof I thought: now we get a positive message every few weeks. But it has remained deafeningly silent. And it seems that the Minister is letting it go because there is insufficient money and capacity available. I ask the Minister: how does he intend to be registered? What if the minister who's doing better than the NAM? Or as the minister who's doing worse? It's up to him. Mr. Chairman. An additional disadvantage is that the National Coordinator Groningen, which is about reinforcement, should not make combinations with damage cases that have been reported to the TCMG. Which can prevent damage being compensated by the TCMG first and then the house is demolished, because of the reinforcement notice or, vice versa, that cracks are cosmetically closed for packing him €1000 and that after each extension there should be repaired again for years, while you could have technically for €10,000 a reinforcement such that you didn't have to do it every time. Mr. Chairman. I don't have to tell you that it drives people crazy. When will the Minister show that he is serious, because my last example is also legally inappropriate. Article 33 provides that the occurrence of damage must be prevented. Residents will then be told: "This is not part of my window." In short, the alignment between the NCG and the TCMG should be improved, especially for the extensive damages. A transfer is now only done in acutely unsafe situations. I think residents should be able to influence this. Let residents choose what they want by at least giving them the right to have the TCMG share the information with the NCG. Now you can't, with an appeal to privacy. I'd like the Minister's response. With a reservoir of 17,500 damage cases at the TCMG other directions of solution are in place. Can there be a limit for damages of up to €10,000, for example? Let the resident take that up with a contractor himself and if you think as a resident "I can't make it', then you go on a different route at your own choice, more carefully and therefore somewhat slower, but then that is a very understandable and also conscious choice of your own. Then check afterwards, if necessary during the execution by sampling to avoid abuse. Mr. Chairman. Damage recovery would be provided in cash and in kind. The latter does not come of it at all, and that is worrying when it comes to vulnerable people who are going to pay off other debts with the money for the damage. That is understandable in itself, but absolutely not desirable for safety. What is the Minister going to do to get this kind of help back on the table at the TCMG? Then there are the agricultural entrepreneurs who have very complex and specific damages and procedures that drag on endlessly. Today we received a letter from the Minister that he will come forward this quarter with a response to the recommendation on the agricultural table. Let me be clear that the CDA wants execution there to be arrested in the shortest possible time. We would also like to hear the latest state of play in the settlement of the damage and the proceedings of the arbitrators. I hear too much that things are going wrong. Mr. Chairman. We're still waiting for the advice on the fall in value, and if it's okay, it's gonna be this month. This will require a compensation that does justice to the inhabitants. The Minister could draw inspiration from a complex bankruptcy such as the DSB Bank. As I understand it, those who have been hurt have met there in a proper manner. Is the Minister prepared to look into this and can the Minister confirm to us that the independent counsellor and the Special Cases Committee simply remain active? Mr. Chairman. Everyone I have talked to recently has spontaneously brought up the hopelessness of the situation in which they sit as inhabitants. Then I get the nasty feeling that we are in the situation where picking up the damages and strengthening by the government is no improvement at all compared to the NAM. The Minister can now show that he is serious and that he is going to speed up the settlement of damages and the reinforcement notice. It should clarify who is responsible for implementing the reinforcement and also the timelines of the approach and quantities. I can imagine that every Friday a triumvirate, consisting of the mandates from the Empire, the province and the municipality, will cut a knot on ongoing projects. Residents of the most risky homes are leading. The municipalities and residents' organisations concerned have then been able to think ahead and their advice is explicitly taken into account with one case manager. I think that's a good suggestion. There must be momentum and, of course, there must be room for learning ability, because it is learned by doing so. But then you have to do something. Further delay is not acceptable to the CDA. In other words, I'm done with that. We expect this minister to give the region the perspective that has been awaited for so long. We wish him much wisdom and God's strength and love. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	On many points, Mrs Mulder's input is in line with my wishes, so I am very curious about the Minister's response. Can Mrs Mulder give us any insight into how the CDA Group feels about a parliamentary survey? This is also something in which the Chamber itself has to do its own work and start on time. What about the CDA in there right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	I think that the damage and the reinforcement should really be resolved at the moment. That is why I think it is a little too early to record it for next year. I have always said so, and I have once supported a motion for a parliamentary inquiry. After the course of the past few months, I can only understand that even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	I hope that during the debate we can reach an agreement on what is a good time. If we don't capture the moment all the time, we'll make it too noncommittal. I hope Mrs Mulder will cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	I saw in the press just before the debate that Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks intended this. I have not yet been able to discuss this with my group. It seems to me to be a point to be discussed in the group. I may not be able to return to it during today's debate, but I will certainly return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	I have a not very complicated question. There is a broad call from mayors, aldermen and social movements in Groningen with five opinions. Suppose there is a motion from one of the political groups, the PvdA can do it, but other groups can do it too, calling on the Minister to take everything from a to z in full. Will the CDA then support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	I've had a lot of conversations in the last few weeks. When the letter came in, my input was already ready. That input had to be done before Monday afternoon and the letter came Monday evening, but almost all the points were already in my input. You may assume that I am very positive about this, but I would like to see what it means. Yesterday we supported Mr Van der Lee's request to ask the Minister to send a letter very quickly. Yeah, well, of course, you'll get a letter on the main lines. That's what he's getting killed for today. That's a little tricky for me. It seems to me that today the Minister should say exactly what he is going to do with all those points that the region has raised. I asked for this in my speech and I am very curious about the answers. Suppose there is no need to table motions because the Minister is making promises today that make us somewhat happier. I think it's worth waiting for. I'm sure Mr Nijboer of the PvdA will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	I'm always curious about the cabinet's answers. That is important; that is what we have the debate for. At the same time, I think that the Minister's letter is very far from what the wishes are. I am sure you have heard that the regional leaders agree with that. So I think it is a good thing that the Chamber should at least make a point about this. We'll talk about it later today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. I am now going to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mr. Chairman. It is another debate about the damage and the reinforcements in Groningen, and the Groningers have been waiting for far too long. We feel it all here in the hall and in the public gallery. I felt it on Monday when I was in Groningen. There's also a lot of incomprehension. According to the Minister, the signals are green, but far too little is happening. What are we waiting for, anyway? People should feel safe in their homes. They want to be able to decorate and adapt them to their tastes, but many Groningers don't even know if they'll be living in the same house next year. In the SP movie, we've just been able to see how that affects lives. I have heard several stories about this myself, also from my own family. Is my house being demolished? Can I refresh my bathroom? Should I put solar panels on my roof? D66 wants that to change really quickly. We want to move forward, accelerate. We want an approach that will help the Groningers get back on top of it, and there are a number of possibilities to accelerate. The reservoir of damage reports is still growing and can do better. The region has made good proposals for this in a letter, I say in the direction of Mr Nijboer. Get a contractor in the house right away, put him to work, and the receipt with a photo can be sent to the temporary commission's counter for damages. All damages up to €10,000, for example, can be dealt with automatically. As with your car insurance: you take a picture of the bumper hit, you send it to an insurer and he compensates for the damage. For that you have a contract with your insurer, just like the minister has with the NAM. What does the Minister think of this proposal? Can we get this going in the short term? Do you want me to give you my insurance company's number for how they do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	I don't know if you've ever had car damage, but it's not like you can just send out photo receipts to get your damages compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	Well, I'll tell you the truth... Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	No, it's not. Then you'll all get procedures and checks. Then they say, "that valuation is wrong," and then you also have the whole fucking thing we're in right now. That is the problem; we must get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	May I respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	It may vary from insurer to insurer. Let me start by saying that I do have that experience with my recent car damage, but that does not matter. I know it can be done this way. I also know that it can be done as Mr Nijboer says. I am well aware of that, and of course that is not exactly what we want. What we want is for it to accelerate. I've heard a lot, also in conversations with people in Groningen itself, that it's seen as a way we can really speed up. You send in a picture, we're generous and we're not going to have a debate about every crack, as can happen and, unfortunately, until now too much has happened. No, we want to get rid of that! And it's okay to have a good day. That's gotta be generous. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u69	Okay, let's drop the insurance, because it doesn't really matter what we compare it to. The bottom line is that anyone who reports their damage is sure that they will be paid as well. No checks, no administrative stuff,... Even in the future or just for the old damages? I'm asking because I want to understand the proposal exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u70	That seems fine to me, because I think it is a fantastic proposal. The proposal is that you do know that you are just getting things fixed. Old damage, new damage: damage is damage!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u72	I come to the reinforcements, Madam President. The fact that the gas extraction goes to zero causes changes. And despite the fact that gas extraction stops, the risk of tremors unfortunately remains for the time being. Where a home first had a high security risk, it can now suddenly have a low safety risk. For two years, you've been counting on reinforcements to your house, and suddenly that's not necessary anymore. The story of Hans, who lives in Zeerijp, was in the newspaper: his house is in a reinforcement program and he thought his house would be demolished and rebuilt. But he sure as hell doesn't. That's confusing, because how do you know your house is really safe if there's no inspector in your living room? Can the minister free capacity so that those people with an unsafe feeling get an inspection at home, some sort of second opinion? This must not, of course, lead to delays for other homes, for example the P50 category, which we really need to get to work quickly. But it is about removing the feeling of insecurity that many people still have when suddenly they hear that their house is safe. Mr. Chairman. The financing of the reinforcement is essential. The regional and local directors look back at the Empire and the Empire looks back. Everyone wants to get to work, but too little is happening. Groningers are in a waiting room, but without any idea when the operation will start, like Marleen in Appingedam, who told her story to the Dagblad van het Noorden. She was told she's due for an inspection in September, but September of what year? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Loppersum heeft zelf al een heel plan liggen en wil zo snel mogelijk aan de slag.]] Money and capacity and time are needed. Can the Minister take care of that? What does he do to ensure that other municipalities follow quickly? Municipalities are now wondering how much money is available to them for reinforcement. Drivers regularly stand in front of full rooms and can't actually tell anything. They need security before informing their residents with the message: it's going to happen, your house will be strengthened. And if we don't give them that is happening now too, then people who have been very constructive in this process for years will get very frustrated. The Minister can make a move by giving the municipalities something of an advance. That is the only way to give municipalities security, so that they know that they can start with their reinforcements. And yet another question about the NAM, even if it's out. Can a municipality really get started if the NAM disputes the cost of the reinforcement? What exactly are the procedures for this? Is the Empire going to act as a buffer and take on any risks? The Minister has often talked about a front and back door approach. Will he now explain exactly what that is worth in practice? I'm rounding up. 2018 was the year of the historic gas decision. We've talked about it a lot. As far as D66 is concerned, 2019 should become the year of truth for damage recovery and reinforcement. The Groningers have been in the waiting room long enough. Let the operation begin. Make sure that the reservoir drains damage reports and that many projects start for reinforcement. That is the only way to lay a foundation for the restoration of trust, so that Groningers will look forward to a future in a safe home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u73	I have a hunch what you're going to ask, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u74	Oh, that's great. You're welcome to ask me the question. I fully agree with Mr Sienot on what the commitment should be for 2019, but does he think that the commitment should be a parliamentary survey by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u75	I didn't see that question coming, Madam President. I would like to begin by saying that I think that is a very understandable wish. We also think it is a good idea that such a large-scale failure, I think you can call it that, there are too many stories to tell about it. I found the arguments put forward by Mr Van der Lee, namely that we also want to know about future mining projects, very valid. So I understand that wish. What's bothering me a little bit is the timing. I just said that we want to speed up the handling of damages and that we want to speed up the reinforcement projects. Safety's at the top of the line. We must ensure safety. If we are all going to sit in a room and do fantastic research, it must not be at the expense of that safety. It's my lead. So in short, my answer is: I find it difficult to respond to that 2020 as l'improviste. That it is a good idea to do so, I share and what is the best time, I like to hear from the Minister, but the speed of strengthening should not suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u76	Of course, we have had this discussion before. But we are now a step further, especially when it comes to policy development. There are many problems in implementation, and we have already discussed them in detail, but we are primarily responsible here for the policy, testing, looking back and drawing lessons from the past. Why can't we, as a chamber, start preparations? That doesn't bite each other at all, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u77	I must confess that I am not fully familiar with the preparations that can be started. What I do know is that this request has come to us today. I think I've gone a long way by saying that I think it's a wise idea to investigate this, but the timing just goes one bridge too far for this moment. I do not have enough overview for that at the moment. But it's a good idea, again, I share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. You were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u79	I was done, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, we were with the Chambers Committee in Groningen. There we talked to directors, civil society organisations and other stakeholders. As interesting as it was, for me, the real highlight was at the end of the day. Then we were allowed to speak with children behind closed doors. That conversation has made a huge impression on me. Those kids' resilience, wisdom and humour are really incredible. Let me be honest, I think we can learn a lot from that in this room. Mr. Chairman. The kids I talked to told me what life in a quake area does to them. The uncertainty they see with their parents and that they experience themselves, I found heartbreaking. Every day they see the consequences of the damage to their homes. If you haven't been able to sleep in your own bed for months and miss the joint meal because your father or mother can't cook normally at home, that's painful. So I wasn't surprised to hear what they needed when we asked. That was very simple: clarity, certainty. Many Groningers tell me, just like the children we talked to then, that the uncertainty that comes with everything is not to be explained: the fact that you don't know what you're up to, when you're ready, what it's going to cost, what it's going to get you. Groningers experience an endless dependence on other people's reports, reports and assessments. Mr. Chairman. I've met the Groningen as very reasonable people. They also see that a lot of steps have been taken. A year ago, no decision had been taken to bring the extraction of gas to zero, the settlement of the damage was stopped and with the reinforcement we did not even reach 90%. I have to put it another way: we were 90% behind schedule. The NAM interfered everywhere and there were no concrete plans for a real future perspective. Well, I guess there's been a lot of things. We all know that, and we have mentioned it several times here. But we're not there yet. That should be quite clear. We are not going to get there with more agreements or agreements or agreements. They were needed at some point, I'm sure. But we're all more than ready for action now. And when I say "we," of course, I have to look at the Groningers. They're very much in need of action, for a long time. So hands in the sleeves and the builders at work. That's actually very simple, too simple, but that's basically what it's all about. The focus of the VVD is that people get the direction of their own future back. A lot of Groningers tell me, and I'm sure they have also told colleagues, that this is the most touching thing in the whole thing: the fact that you've lost control, that you've lost self-determination. We must now move from words to deeds. Take the damage treatment, which several colleagues have talked about. There's almost 18,000 damage reports on the shelf. I think the call from the region is very understandable. Let contractors repair the damage directly up to €10,000, without inspections, without hassle. I am very much in favour of this and I am also considering a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u82	I really liked that you brought up children. I first met 12-year-old Edith today. She's in the bleachers, but you know she can't come here. She made a play. She signed the invitation herself. I wanted to hand it over to you, because I very much agree with you that children have the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u83	It'll be through the messenger in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u84	That sounds good, and I'd still like to ask one more question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u85	I would very much like to respond to that, if I may. I really like that. I don't want the audience talking, I know that. But, Edith, I'd love to come and the colleagues too; I'm sure you will, so thank you for that. The sobriety and warmth with which the children have shown us what they are dealing with, what they see the solutions in and what they ask of us have made a huge impression on me. So I'd like to go there with Mrs. Beckerman together. At least it was meant to be together, wasn't it? Or don't you want to go with me...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u86	It's always nice when you're just the two of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u87	Maybe. It can be fun, but for a lot of Groningers it is of course not a cozy story at all. I would also like to ask one more substantive question. You're talking about grip and control. Two things that Groningers were taken from this cabinet and the previous cabinets. You just said, "I'd like to think about a general's pardon for the damage." I have a question about the backup. Would you also like those municipal plans to be leading instead of that NAM computer model? Are you willing to give people real grip and control back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u88	Is Mrs Yeşilgöz prepared...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u89	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u90	I understand the question. I'll be on backup in a minute. That is where we have our own proposals on how we can give people the direction of their own home and their own lives back. If it's all right, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to come back to the reinforcements. I'm sure Mrs Beckerman will still consider this question relevant, but it'll be easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u91	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u92	Of course, housing is being strengthened, but it is far from quick enough to do so, as all colleagues here have said, and that is still to be put mildly. Much more houses need to be strengthened much faster. As far as the VVD is concerned, safety is the top priority. Money can't be an issue. I have heard the Minister say that several times. I would like to know from the Minister what is still needed to ensure that the reinforcement is carried through very quickly and on a large scale. If money isn't the problem, everyone wants it and the builders are ready, as I've heard, what's wrong with it? I would now very much like to agree that anyone who, according to the Mining Council, is in an unsafe home will be out of uncertainty in no time. Left or right, by anyone informed, I don't care, it just needs to be arranged. I'd like a response from the Minister. I would also like to see people sitting here or at home thinking 'I just want to know if I am under the standards of the Mining Council as regards an unsafe house; I do not want to wait at all for communication, on the region, the municipality or the empire, I want to get to work myself', so I can get to work myself. I would also like to know from the Minister what space is. I can imagine that there are plenty of people who say, "I can't start it myself," but there will also be people who say, "Yes, I want to; let me know if I'm within the category and then I'll take care of my own business; just make sure it gets paid. I think we should be able to do that, too. In the interests of clarity, too, I would like to endorse the call from the region for a one-stop shop for damage recovery and reinforcement. The last thing Groningers wants in this situation, I can imagine, is constantly being sent from the cabinet to the wall. A duped must be able to find one place with all the problems. Moreover, I know that this is also an important point for entrepreneurs, whom we have also spoken on several occasions. I would like a response from the Minister: how do we ensure that people can be helped in one place and that it doesn't matter whether you are an entrepreneur or a property owner and whether it's about damage or reinforcement? You just need a lot of help. I would also like to draw particular attention here to damage recovery and the strengthening of monuments. We hear from people that there can be quite a bit of delay, which I do not think would be necessary at all. Can the Minister elaborate on this? Mr. Chairman. If we agree on one thing today, let that be that there's going to be drilled, hammered and hammered, that there's going to be a lot of sweat for Groningen, so that people can think about things that you and I are working on every day, training, new job, your holiday destination, a new love, and not lying awake for nights because of concerns about security and files. Mr President, when we asked the children if they would like to stay in Groningen later when they grow up, they all said: no, I will leave. Then I asked, is that because it's unsafe here because of the tremors? Actually, they all said, no, but I'm just having dreams about somewhere else. That touched me. They see no future for themselves in Groningen. How cool would it be if the kids we talked to and all their boyfriends and girlfriends would want to stay in Groningen later, because they do have big dreams there; great dreams actually? That they can live in Groningen without any worries. That's really what we're doing it for. I see I'm through my speaking time, so that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u93	Yes. Mr. Van Rooijen!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u94	Do you mind if I interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u95	Yes. Mr. Van Rooijen forgot to turn off his phone. Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u96	First of all, I have heard a great deal in Mrs Zegerius's speech of the VVD, which we fully support. So get to work, let the sweat drops flow for Groningen. At the same time there are also sounds in the VVD, a mayor who calls it "happiness seekers." The PvdA just mentioned it. First of all, my question is whether Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius can imagine that this is really going to happen to people in Groningen, whose problems she has just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u97	I am pleased with this question, because I can tell from this place that it came to me as well. I come to Groningen a lot, just like you. I speak a lot of Groningers. As our group chairman of the Provincial States, Mirjam Wulfse, said in response: this was very inappropriate, very unnecessary and very unjustified; this is not what Groningers deserve. In fact, anyone who thinks they should have an opinion about Groningen, I would like to invite my colleague Mirjam Wulfse to go to Groningen together and talk to Groningers. Then you see that it is people who simply ask for extremely reasonable things that we all seek every day, namely peace and security. So that was certainly not wise of my colleague Mr Hoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u99	I hear Mrs Yeşilgöz from the VVD say: we must put our hands up and we must sweat for Groningen; get to work! That's exactly what's not happening right now. That hasn't happened in years. This VVD Minister is responsible for this, because it is the policy of this VVD Minister. In fact, Mrs Yeşilgöz's words are at odds with that. Then the question is whether she is still behind her own VVD minister and how he has dealt with the misery of Groningen over the past year, or rather: not dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u100	I have made it very clear what the VVD says I have heard that a lot of colleagues have such ideas as well, all of which could happen. I actually have to rephrase: we have heard very well from the Groningen people themselves, for example on the basis of yesterday's letter, how to take action very concretely and very quickly. On the one hand, good steps have been taken, such as we are going to reduce gas extraction to zero and the damage recovery, which stopped, has moved again. I have made it quite clear in my speech that I will not make anything else out of that either. People are in uncertainty. I hear the regional leaders and a minister saying: money should not be the problem; we all want it. Then today is also the time in this debate for us to get very tight on the table where it is at and how we can get it moving. I think that's the most important thing we can do here. I fully support what I have just said. In fact, I've got a couple of motions ready. I hope I have the support of Mr Kops for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u101	It's a hypocrite of the VVD anyway. Because how many years hasn't the VVD been working in this country? The Groningen shit didn't start yesterday. In fact, the VVD is responsible for that. Years ago, the VVD even decided to open the gas valve further, when it was already clear that this would cause a lot of problems. So the VVD is responsible for these problems in Groningen. And now the VVD comes with all kinds of semi-solutions, all purely for the stage election coming up. Then the question is: how credible is this and how credible is the VVD still, especially because there is a VVD minister here who does not address the problems, but only increases the misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u102	With all due respect, Mr Kops does not have to believe me at all. I'm here for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u103	I had another interruption open. I am very pleased to hear that Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has distanced herself from the statements of another VVD leader who has offended Groningen, but I would like to ask Mr Wiebes if she also renounces the letter that Minister Wiebes has just sent. Does it allow the plans of the Groningen people to be led and does it allow the municipal plans for the reinforcement to be led?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u104	From the Minister's letter, I say that in many respects he is embracing the wishes of the region and is looking precisely at how we can put this into effect as quickly as possible, so that it really is going to work out that way. In fact, I have not only included a number of points from that letter from the region in my speech; I have even announced motions for resolutions on it. So that's just extremely important. There are only two things that really apply to me: that we continue to put security at the centre and that we do not create all kinds of things that will lead to further delays. Those are two things I don't want. For the rest, I would like to hear what is practical and what is feasible and what can be done together with the region. I'm fine with it; it's about security and tempo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u105	Nothing could be further from the truth. I think that's Groningen's pain, too. Every time those beautiful words and those beautiful promises: there is no light between what we want and what Groningen wants. But the Hague reality is still at odds with the Groningen reality. My question is actually quite simple. On the contrary, the Minister leaves little room for the municipalities in that letter. The question is whether you want to continue with that computer model for the NAM or that you want the municipal plans to be leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u106	What I find so special about Mrs Beckerman's questions is that I have just made an argument in which I have not only literally included things in that letter, but I have also announced motions on it, for example on the point that you should be able to have damage up to €10,000 repaired directly with a contractor, without inspections and hassle. In fact, I am going to go even further in this respect for people who do not want to wait at all for the Empire, the region and the municipality but who simply want to know if they are covered by that safety standard. If so, they say: then I will get to work myself; just give me the means to do so, because I just want the direction. Even that kind of stuff I record. And then Mrs. Beckerman wants me to analyze a letter from the Minister... I kept the VVD story here. We want security, we want pace and we want self-determination for the people. I can't wait to see how the Minister will react to that. I have motions ready here. I trust that the SP can wholeheartedly support it. That's beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u107	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u108	Mrs Yeşilgöz says that the SP wants me to analyse a letter from the Minister here. Yeah, that's what we're here for. We're here to see if things are going well or bad. I'm not doing well in the bar. I really like the fact that Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius says this. Earlier, in July, she voted a general pardon for the damages still gone and control was also blocked by the VVD. I am trying to ask you if you want to go one step further, because it has to be fundamentally different. I'm gonna try one more time. Let's get these municipal plans running. Are you willing to follow the region or are we continuing on the Hague road?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u109	I hear Mrs Beckerman saying that we are here to analyse letters. I think we're here to make a commitment to getting better in Groningen. I think Mrs Beckerman's second question was very specific whether we support that HRA model or not. I think that's the bottom line. So let me just give you a clear answer. I think it's as good as it gets right now. It's the best model we've got at the moment, internationally, and it's been validated by scientists. If there is another model, for example, I think that TNO is working on it, and another model will be used. I am concerned that we are putting security at the heart of the matter. The study of the Mining Council, for which that model was used, showed that of all the houses we had in view at the time and which were on the list to be strengthened, but one third... I have to say the other way around: of all those homes that were found unsafe in the advice of the Mines Council, only a third were in sight. Mrs Beckerman looks complicated, but I know she read that advice very well. We were only working on a third, while two thirds of those homes and of the people living there weren't even in the picture yet. We didn't even think about how we were going to strengthen those homes. That's not something I want to go back to. We now know which premises are unsafe. I want them to be tackled with top priority. I would also like to discuss with you which models should be used and you name it, but I now know which houses are unsafe. I want to work on that now. I find it bizarre that I am being asked whether I can put that on hold for a moment, because we are going to look at it and see if we can still discuss it. I'm not gonna do that; I'm not gonna do that. We're gonna take care of those unsafe houses. Besides, I'd be happy to argue with you about models that we both have no alternative to. I'm okay with that, but I'm gonna deal with the insecurity first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u110	Of course, you'd like to do the same thing for Groningen, and then you don't have to be precise. But I can see why Mrs Beckerman reads that letter very precisely, as I do. Each debate always pretends to be on the same side, but when you come to Groningen in practice, nothing turns out to be. That's true now. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius now says: we now know which buildings are safe, we can now get to work. Nothing could be further from the truth! There are still thousands of Groningers who do not know whether their home, which still needs to be inspected, is safe or mediocrely safe. It's just not true! That's the problem. Then we can keep positive stories about sweats, about construction workers, about sisters and stuff and then say we have to get to work, but the misery is so big that we don't even know what to do, let alone who's gonna pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u111	The most expert and independent organisations we have in our country are TNO, SodM, NEN, KNMI, scientists; we all supported the fact that they were going to do that research. They came up with a list of properties. Two-thirds of those apartments had you and I out of the picture. How can you stand here and say: let's go back to that period? How is that possible? How?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u112	The motions on the subject have been rejected, but I have argued here a long time ago to give the right to inspection for every home and for anyone who feels unsafe, to look at what is needed individually, per home, and to make up for it quickly. That's a lot different than saying modelically that there are 1,600 or 2,200 houses, or they're corrected, because they're sometimes two-under-one-capped houses, 2,500, while the people themselves don't know what they're up to. That's really not going well. That's really not going well, Mr. Chairman. I mean, we could pretend it's gonna be resolved here, but it's not. I would like to see the VVD, which dares to wear big pants in front of this minister, as we have seen on the weekend, do so on the Groningen dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u113	Anyone who feels unsafe should be able to call and say, "Come look, because I feel unsafe in my home. What about it?" This question was put by Mr Nijboer in general consultation at the end of last year. Then the Minister literally said, "That's right. It's been like this for months. I've reported this, and it's gonna stay that way. I repeat again: this is so." Then Mr Nijboer said: "Glad that it is finally settled." Then the minister said, "This is already settled." Then I said a little bit to Mr Nijboer: "But you know this. We've been over this, haven't we? This is so." And then he got mad at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u114	He's angry again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u115	Now he's gonna say it again. That's not fair to the Groningen. It's not fair. Anyone who sits at home and thinks "I want to know if my property, my house is safe and if I can go to bed safely," can request an inspection or an interview and then someone comes and looks at it. So that's what we're looking at. We've all made proposals to speed it up, but you, Mr. Nijboer, too, to make it better. We have all concluded that it is not working yet, but we do share that it is regulated in the basics. Only, now you just have to get to work. Ready. So I want to know from the Minister where it sticks and what he needs to solve that. And then we'll take care of it. I haven't heard anyone here say, "Well, I don't feel like it." So we can just sort things out in the Chamber. Then let's just do it. And then I get the blame: you act like we're all thinking the same thing. Yeah, we all want that security and security for Groningers. Then let's just settle it now instead of playing a political game all the time. I just want to take care of it. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u116	Finally, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u117	I am not responding to that last remark. In the last month there have been information meetings in all village houses in Groningen. Everyone was worried about whether his or her house is safe. If you send a letter now about the damage and submit it to the temporary committee, you will receive a letter back stating that it may take 15 months for someone to arrive. There is nothing true of what Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius says here, namely that it is settled, that someone is coming and that it is all right. It doesn't make any sense. It's no good how it's done now. As a representative of the people, we must insist that it is taken care of, because this is not going to work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u118	I have just given my full support to Mr Nijboer and all my colleagues in my speaking time, because we have all spoken to the Groningen people and have all heard them say: we are waiting, we are in uncertainty, arrange this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u120	I apologize, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I have mentioned this. But it's really, really not fair to pretend that I've kept a "hallelujah, what's going on over there" story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u121	In order to avoid my questions and the answers becoming too predictable, I have another question for Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. She insists on more safety and less delay. That's what we all want. But does she recognise that we, as representatives of the people, have no instrument whatsoever for keeping an eye on the progress of the reinforcement operation, because there is not even an indicator that determines the pace to be followed? Does she think it should be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u122	I think that is a very sensible point made by Mr Van der Lee. I am sure we should be able to follow that much more closely. But that is only really worth something if we can then do something about it, if it is not fast enough or if improvements are needed. Then we really need to be able to act. I believe that some sensible suggestions have been made here by colleagues. I have also tried to make some sensible suggestions myself. When we say at some point "it's well-equipped," let's make sure that we can guard it properly. I fully agree with Mr Van der Lee. I also want to be able to steer if we don't think it's going well enough. Or at least I want to be able to support in steering if, for example, the region has to do so. So once, but let's see how we can actually use that functionally. We don't just have to cut numbers with each other, but if it's sticking out somewhere, we really need to know how we can act. That is what we want, of course, but I think Mr Van der Lee knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u123	Indeed, I am not ticking off the numbers and passing through checklists. However, it is crucial that we monitor progress. In addition, the necessary arrangements have been made. The discussion on the HRA model continues. It will have to be reviewed and revised every year. That will be a dynamic event, the Minister has promised us. But we must be able to control what happens in the meantime. I think we should agree on that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u124	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I totally agree with that. I have only one comment to make and that is that I would always like to ensure that The Hague takes over. That is not what Mr Van der Lee is proposing either, but you must make sure that the role of the region is respected. 'Cause he knows best what's needed there. I am sure that Mr Van der Lee and I will get out of that if we propose something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year ago, we were also debating the national disaster that took place in Groningen. We were debating a year ago with a minister who would take care of it all. And indeed, there was a new damage protocol very quickly. A Temporary Committee on Mining Damage was set up. The NAM would pay for everything and would not interfere with anything else. I remember that at the time we were all very cautiously moderately positive about the strength of this minister. But now, a year later, there's nothing left of it. That's how we get pushed back on the facts. We are stuck here with a VVD minister and if there is one party here that excels in breaking promises, then it is the VVD. And now the Minister has made the following promise, yet another. 2019 should be the year of implementation, a year in which people will finally see progress in their village, neighbourhood, street and home. Mr President, first see, then believe. As far as belief is concerned, people's confidence in the earthquake area has fallen to a new low. And yes, of course there is no other way. People are at their wits' end, despair is near. People are literally in tears. People have been left entirely to their own devices for years. One of the victims recently e-mailed the PVV asking the Minister to ask the following question. How does he even think someone should feel if there's no clarity, because these people live in uncertainty? That's actually a very human question. Can the Minister imagine at all how the people there are at the end of their guesses? This can certainly not be made up for with a simple, short visit to the region. Earlier this week, the minister visited Appingedam and Loppersum. Let's keep up appearances. Let me tell the people that he is very much involved in the misery of Groningen. That's what he must have thought. If there was no debate planned in the Chamber, would the Minister have gone there at that time? Now the earthquake region has called on the House of Representatives to take action in a letter. It says that many Groningers no longer believe the national policy on gas extraction. Despite the Minister's decision to close the gas tap in the long term, the Groningers are indignant, disillusioned, cynical, angry, disappointed, pessimistic and distrustful. That is the reality. So when the Minister promised us a year ago that things would all be okay in Groningen, he just fooled us. The Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen, he said at the time, had to be the solution, the way to a quick and generous settlement of damage, but in practice nothing of this is going to happen. The number of unfinished claims has only increased. There are currently over 17,500 open files. It's worse than it was a year ago. Why is that? According to a spokesperson of that temporary committee, the principles "just" and "just" call for care, and that takes time. Finding a good balance is incredibly complicated. Mr. Chairman. That's way too easy; they're really doomed. With such a simplistic explanation, the Minister, who is responsible, cannot, of course, get away. With the establishment of that temporary committee, the Minister took over the damages. It is therefore also up to him to actually settle it now, but the reality is that the injured have to wait more than a year before an expert comes along to see what's actually going on. There's just not enough manpower, but that, of course, is no excuse. We must not allow the victims to suffer the consequences again. Minister, don't make your problem their problem. As far as PVV is concerned, the Minister has two options. Either he makes sure that he gets his affairs in order very quickly, but very quickly, which we do not see happening soon, or all existing damages are automatically awarded. Of course, that would be the best thing: just pay for the damage. And the Minister doesn't want that? It's your fault. Then he shouldn't have made such a mess of things. In doing so, he can rely perfectly on the so-called generosity he promised us more than a year ago. And get over the bridge with resources for the reinforcement. The local implementation plans of the municipalities are leading, according to the Minister. The Empire then makes available the implementation capacity and the financial resources. But look at Loppersum, look at Ten Boer: there the plans are already ready, they are just waiting for approval. So, Minister, why don't you take care of that? The region asks to do so before 1 February 2019. Is the Minister going to do the same, yes or no? Finally, let me compare: sometimes the Minister shows a great deal of strength. Recently, he has shown a great deal of decisiveness in achieving that terrible climate agreement that will cost many hundreds of billions, hundreds of billions! Apparently, he can. So I'd say, finally, use that force for the Groningen people. Just be a man and take care of it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u127	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u128	Safety first and the resident central, is the title of the umpteenth plan of action in my opinion. The burning question is, of course, how? Mr. Chairman. The number of outstanding claims is increasing instead of decreasing. Few houses have actually been strengthened. Almost 80% of homeowners are negative to very negative about addressing their problems. 87% do not yet know whether their home is eligible for reinforcement. The region notes that the capacity of implementing organisations is insufficient, that the expertise does not increase, that the NAM still has much influence, that too little money is being made available, and it has already been said that too much is being looked at models and too little at the harsh reality. And I probably haven't said everything yet. But how can we be sure that the directors and executives concerned are now able to make the necessary speed and show the necessary effectiveness? My question to the Minister is therefore: what are you running into and what is needed to really get that performance going? 'Cause we're gonna be handing out all kinds of blackbirds around here, but that's not gonna do anybody any good. I'd really like to know where that layer is underneath why it doesn't work? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the advice from the region. The regional parties have jointly sent a letter and their message is clear: choose a form of a general pardon. I could imagine that for existing claims under a certain amount, as Mr Sienot said earlier, you will not do a check on the extent to which the damage is caused by soil movement but simply grants it. They also say: make sure that citizens and entrepreneurs can go to one window for one integrated solution for both damage and reinforcement and ensure that there is sufficient money and execution capacity quickly; drum up people, make sure that as many homes as possible are inspected as soon as possible and let the implementation plans of municipalities really lead and give all owners of homes who have already been inspected the right to a reinforcement advice. I could go much further, but my specific question to the Minister is: do you accept these opinions from the region one-on-one? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to agriculture. My colleague Nijboer from the Labour Party was the first to discuss it and others have also appointed it. Citizens are suffering from a great deal of uncertainty, but farmers are already suffering. They have problems that have not been addressed sufficiently so far: leaking dungeons, sagging silos and concrete paths, and drainage problems caused by both earthquakes and soil decline. Farmers are still sent from the cabinet to the wall. I have seen the documentary from the SP; in it you see not only farmers, because I also saw it with residents of a village with beautiful houses that each government party points to the other. I would say: let the government simply take on that responsibility and fight the rest with the other governments, so that in this case, too, farmers and others will not suffer. Because of the complexity of their problems, farmers are also at the bottom of the list of cases to be dealt with, because, yes, difficult cases must always be pushed to the end. In the meantime, however, an agricultural consultation table has been set up and has recently come up with recommendations: address the problem of agriculture in its entirety through an administratively secured agro-table, an agro-team and an agro-team, funding rule and mandate to come up with an integrated solution on each yard, quickly make clear whether companies fall within the reinforcement approach or not, and pick up the longest-term claims files in the short term. Will the Minister be working on the recommendations of the agricultural consultation table? What do we need? Not big words, just actions. Our question to the Minister is: how can you guarantee this? But don't read that in the vein of: we come here to exchange a firm word with the Minister. It's really about getting that layer of: after many years of talking, studying and not doing too much, how do we really get that performance on the pendulum? 'Cause that's where the crux is. I think we should work very hard on that. Then I will answer immediately the question that GroenLinks might otherwise ask: we are doing well for that survey later, but we will after it is actually done. Otherwise, we are going to put the people who are needed for the implementation, on the preparation and so on, so that this implementation gets even further away. So yes, we are in favour of it, but that performance must be dealt with first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u129	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u130	Mr. Chairman. If I am not careful, I stand here every day: yesterday about cash and tomorrow about the initiative proposal on pensions. I say this because today I am replacing Mr Geleijne, who has been killed by illness. So I have not been able to prepare in depth either, but as the last speaker I note that almost everything has been said and almost all the questions have been asked. At the time, Minister Wiebes decided at his kitchen table to turn off the gas tap. I asked myself this morning at my kitchen table: how can we quickly put an end to the continuing drama of damage handling and the problems of reinforcement? There are over 17,000 files. 50PLUS has the following suggestion for the Minister: is he prepared to introduce a system of advances? For example, an advance of two thirds of the damage assessment with an ex post check. If you turn the whole process around, people can get to work themselves. It may be that the Minister will say: ho, ho, that can't just happen! Then I say to him: when the Chamber at the time felt that the hopeless pgb-drama had to stop, an advance pgb-system existed for two years. There it was about 2 billion a year. I would also draw the Minister's attention to the care and rent allowance, where the allowances are paid with an ex post settlement. As Secretary of State for Finance, he was immediately known and involved. Is the Minister prepared to introduce an advance payment system and come forward with a proposal on this before 15 February 2019? If necessary, I will table a motion on this matter in the second term. After all, money is not a problem: it just happened, both with the pgb and with the rent and care allowances. There are many billions of people involved in care and rent payments. They are simply paid out, because we believe that citizens should have those allowances in order to be able to pay their care and rent expenses, and that they should have that pgb amount in order to pay the expenses. And so not: first do the expenses and then maybe after that benefit. Actually, it's too simple for words. That this has never been thought of! I have heard from several colleagues that they are also thinking in these directions. Maybe we can think about that together. As I said, I am also considering a second-term motion on this matter. Finally. The Minister speaks in his letter about "more damage experts." The letter literally says "more." My group believes that an army of experts should be deployed to deal with the cases quickly. That is, by the way, separate from the advance system that I have just proposed, in which the people themselves can get to work. The whole process is actually reversed. There too, I am considering a motion. Finally, I call on the Minister to support the opinions of five representatives of all the parties concerned in a letter. The Minister's reaction finds 50PLUS very disappointing. Mr. Chairman. Today it's about people in Groningen and people here in the stands. It's not about files, it's about people. I have, of course, been following the debate for a long time from the group, and I always have the feeling that dossiers and methods and techniques are being discussed. But if you put people first, there would have been a much more efficient and faster road ahead. The people in Groningen and here in the stands have had enough of words. It's about action now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u131	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Thank you for being able to replace Mr Geleijne. This also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 4.15 p.m. Then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u132	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr President, thank you. For my part, too, a warm word of welcome to the people who have taken the trouble to come all the way from Groningen. I notice that there are more and more familiar faces in front of me, and that is of course only bad news, because if it all goes well, you don't know anyone, and I know more and more people. The main tone of this debate is justified impatience. That is also the case with me, as I shall say in all honesty. We think it's taking too long. I did say a year ago that I think this is an unauthorized government failure. I also think it's an audience failure; I don't think it's purely due to the NAM. We haven't solved that yet. That's a fact. The day before yesterday in Groningen, I got that message. I hadn't been to Groningen in a while. I had a lot of problems with a climate agreement and Urgenda is also asking attention, but the day before yesterday I was there again. The clear message was everywhere: sail. The letter from the region fits in well with that and contains all kinds of proposals which I will go into. I think we can do something with most of the proposals, that we can just implement them or even do that. I myself said in July, when the opinion of the Mines Council was there, that we must now do everything we can to get started as quickly as possible. The damage handling had been on a low stone for quite some time and the reinforcement new style had yet to start. Over the past year, 2018, we've arranged a lot, but people in the houses haven't noticed. We're working out the NAM and it's done for the most part, albeit not everywhere, but people haven't noticed it yet, because if the damage handling is difficult to get going, you won't notice the difference when the NAM was still there. We have announced that the extraction will go to zero. That is happening very quickly, because I believe that there is no longer any possibility of winning in the Groningen field in a safe way. It's going very fast, but we haven't noticed much about it yet. We have also received the draft for a faster reinforcement approach. Have we noticed any of that yet? No, because it hasn't started properly yet. And we have a regional fund for the future, but yes, that's for the future, and people haven't noticed much about that either. So 2018 was really a policy year. I repeat the words of Mr Kops, who repeated mine: 2019 must be the year of implementation. That is not necessarily good news, because, as we all know, implementing the policy is even more aggressive than making it more policy. So it turns out. I'll come back to that later. First, I want to talk about the settlement of damages, which has to be faster, and then about the part of the reinforcement operation that has to start new style. Then I will look at all kinds of questions that have been answered by passing by the various spokesmen. So it may be that the various spokesmen do not immediately hear the answer to their question, but that will have to come after that. Mr President, damage. The Temporary Committee on Mining Damage, Groningen, is not working hard enough. That is, of course, a reason for justified indignation. I've shared that indignation myself. I said at the end of 2017 that I find it unacceptable that damage has been done, but that people have to wait in vain for compensation. The fact that it was still wasn't my only concern, by the way. My other concern was that the NAM was right in the middle of that. The causer of the damage, who also had an interest in the amount, determined how much you got. Let me keep it clean and put it this way: that gives perverse incentives. In my own words, that is a most invigorating situation. You put an individual in harm's way against a large legal apparatus, which knows its way around. That wasn't neat. That is why we decided to put this in public hands. I read afterwards in the Acts that I said at the time: well, the start of this institution, of this window, is still going to be quite a job. Yeah, Eric Wiebes, it was. We officially started on March 19th, but then there was virtually nothing. It took until the end of May for a first decision to be taken. So the first damage was actually at the end of May. That was eight months ago. I inherited 14,000 damages. That's a whole reservoir of damage. Of those we have now recorded about 6,500. So we're almost halfway to the then reservoir, but in the meantime, of course, new damage has come. In order to determine how we can speed this up, of course I have been working on this over the past few years; therefore I may be able to tell you about this vividly too...... we have to split it into the inclusion of the damage and the assessment of the damage. I hope that Mr Van der Lee will listen to this very carefully, because he will soon find this distinction important. Recording the damage and assessing the damage are very different process steps. Let me just say that analyses indicate that the bottleneck is at the recording stage. Then there is some delay between recording and judging, but that is also because we want to involve the resident. So that's also the time the resident gets to see if he thinks it's reasonable. But the bottleneck is with the recordings. So if we can increase the speed at the recordings, the whole process will go faster. We went for the summer with the recording speed from zero to about 100 per week. So that's 100 shots a week. It was an average of 40. In October, pretty much after the summer, we were at about 140 a week. So that was three times as much as in the period before the summer. We're on about 400 shots a week now. So that's ten times as high as before the summer, but I still think it's tight. I still think 400 shots a week are tight. We did that by increasing the number of takers of fifteen we started with fifteen; we also didn't want to take all people who came directly from the NAM to now about 100 in the field. Now there are about 100 receivers. You know what comes in on average a week. At least, if there's no quake. I'm still dependent on that. But you also know that 400 are being assessed. At the current pace, the recording reservoir has so roughly shrunk at the end of 2019. Is that a satisfactory result? In all honesty, I can look at that with a very technical eye, knowing how difficult it is, but I'm also standing here as a human being. And then I think: at the end of 2019, that is not satisfactory. Then we're talking about the recording reservoir. So we must and are also looking for acceleration possibilities. Let me point out that I am open to all useful solutions. The letter also contains a number of them, which I will go into, but I also say that I am somewhat bound on one point. This is all under discussion, and I can do a great deal about it, but this Temporary Committee on Mining Damage is an independent committee, and that is not entirely for nothing. It does the work you can compare with that of a judge. A judge isn't gonna tell you how to do his job. Unfortunately, it is also difficult for us to tell judges in this country how hard they have to work and how many cases they have to take off, but it seems a little like that. So if you want to have independent decision-making, you have to give someone freedom of movement in how they do it. So I can argue very hard with the TCMG, I can have firm conversations. I can try endlessly to add budgets and so on, but all the way to the end it is a conversation with the chairman of that temporary committee, because he still has a bit of the status of a judge. But I guess there's a lot to go on. The first is, of course, the increase in capacity: we have gone from 15 to 100. Okay, why couldn't it be 150? Well, there are a number of objections standing in the way, for example the Procurement Act. I also mention the labour market. We think we've gone a long way in finding experts. You have to have people who can absorb damage. I'm talking to the TCMG to see if they can't just bring in more recorders. Just more capacity. If we can find it somewhere in the Netherlands, it would be worth a sweet thing to me. The receivers that are there, on average, do one shot a day. Let me get this straight. I wonder why that couldn't be one and a half. So in all kinds of ways we're looking to see if the capacity can go up even further, so we can't do 400, but even more recordings a week. And then we'll get through that mountain faster. That's one. The second point is that it is obvious that we work with housing corporations. Housing corporations are big owners. They're well-known, solid, reliable parties. The technical committee has just made the agreement with housing corporations that they will be able to record damages themselves. That still has to be signed, but the deal is there. So we can start with that. This means that about 1,600 damages do not require recourse to the scarce absorption capacity and that this can be done quickly. Those 1,600 damages can be completed more quickly. This will give more room for faster handling of private, non-woco damages. Very interesting is option 2 in the letter: call it the builder variant. At the request of residents, a quote is made by solid, selected, reliable contractors, so that one can proceed. That could be a check, that could be a sample. Honestly, I don't hang on to the amount above or below which you do a sample. I think that's what the committee has to say. I can imagine that there are cases that are higher than €5,000 or even higher than €10,000 that you say: should we tell the TCMG to check? If you know it's in the middle of the area, if you recognize the type of damage and if you know the contractor well, then I can imagine that you're not setting a maximum limit at all, but it leaves it up to that committee to assess whether she thinks she should carry out a sample. So I think that builder variant is very promising. That's what's going on. There are now a few hundred people in the builder's variant. That runs and we'll see how that goes. It's supposed to scale it up. This scaling-up is, of course, gradual, but it is intended to be made available to everyone in April. At first there was a plan to make it available to everyone in May, but I think it could be April. This means that we are giving people an opportunity to act quickly, to show their own initiative and not to burden the bottleneck. The receivers that work for the TCMG remain so available for the other cases, for people who do not choose this route. I think this is very promising. Like the TCMG, I say yes. It's important and we need to make good use of it. As far as I'm concerned, there's real music in there. I'm going to talk to the TCMG about whether a ceiling is needed at all. I don't think it's up to us, at least it's not up to me to say: above that amount, you have to check it. We need an appropriate sampling system. You need to be able to trust contractors who do that. You need to be able to guarantee legal certainty and equality of law, but I am convinced that we do not necessarily have to set rigid limits. I'd rather leave that to the committee. I think it's a promising variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u134	This is it about...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u135	I've got more, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u136	Okay, I'll go see Mrs. Beckerman. She was there before, and I sent her back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u137	...I see a lot of interest in the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u139	What really pisses me off is that the Minister thinks it makes sense to say that we want to go faster, but we just can't find any staff. Let's go back to the beginning. In the Netherlands we say 'you can only win gas if you can safely' and 'if there is damage you have to pay it quickly'? After so many years, in which there has been such a huge reservoir of damage and people have been fighting and waiting for years, you can't say: we can't find enough people to arrange that? That can't be true, can it? I thought we agreed in the Mining Act that you shouldn't be winning gas at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u140	Have I not made it sufficiently clear that I think that this cabinet feels that gas extraction in Groningen is no longer safe, but that we still have a few interests in terms of security of supply for households that we would otherwise put in the cold? We're going down at a raging rate. We are talking about the second half of 2022 and then there is very little of the gas extraction in Groningen, but in the meantime I have to skip a bit. If I had now had the opportunity to turn the gas extraction to zero without people getting in the cold, we would have come an end. I can't, but it's not a big deal. We're going down fast, faster than anyone thought. I don't think Mrs. Beckerman put a cross behind that fast to zero a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u141	That wasn't my question. The Minister says, "I have to skip a little bit." But with so many outstanding damages and all those people who are still in a dragging trial and who are really financially and psychologically on the ground, you can't say: I want to skip a little bit. In my view, all you can do is say: there must be a general pardon for both those old damage and for that reservoir that is now there. Does the Minister agree with me that there should be a general pardon for the damages?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr President, perhaps it would be a good thing if I could finish my speech. I shall come back to Mrs Beckerman's last question on the general's pardon. If the question is whether we should do everything we can to help these people quickly, the answer is yes, everything. Anything that helps, I'll consider. I'll have a firm conversation with the TCMG about that. But I'll come back to her point. I'll get back to you; I haven't forgotten. The word 'general pardon' has not been snowed under in this debate, I shall say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u143	I can very well follow what the Minister says about the capacity, the corporations and the builder's variant. I do have one specific question: should a decision be made by the TCMG in this variant of contractors in a formal sense? He says that there is not the bottleneck in time, but should that happen in a formal sense or not? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u144	I'm gonna have to leave that to the TCMG. In any case, the advantage of this option, whether you make decisions or not, is that it relieves the bottleneck and thus ensures acceleration. Whether you do it with or without availability, the gear is the same. It's just that there may be some time left in between, but that doesn't slow down the process. Whether all this is necessary is also a bit for the assessment of the TCMG, which should monitor the equality of law, legal certainty and solidity. As Mr Van der Lee knows, I am rarely the one who insists on administrative and legal procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u145	I hear the minister say he wants to get to work quickly. That's good; we need to speed up. I also hear him say that the labour market shortage is a problem. Now there are also many people who do want to get to work. Is it possible, for example, that they will follow a start-up qualification programme so that they can also do this inspection work? Or are there other ways we can ensure that we can get more inspectors to solve that personnel problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u146	Oh, yeah. We train them, among other things. This is also why the capacity did not go up immediately but gradually when they were hired; they had to be reworked and trained. Of course, whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u147	That sounds fantastic. I am therefore very curious to know whether more investment is being made at the moment in order to get people out of the pond faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u148	To get people out of the pond faster? Mr. Sienot needs to put some subtitles on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u149	To find or train more staff more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u150	That's what I started. Let's put it this way: we've gone from 15 to 100 round-the-clock damage collectors and I'm having the conversation with the TCMG to get back on top of that. Sure, sure! That was my point one...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u151	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u152	...the most obvious option, including increasing the productivity of the people working there. They're doing 20 shots a week now. Why couldn't it be 30? That helps, too. A factor one and a half; that saves a lot. Then there is also an option 1C in the letter. That's not the builder's variant, but let's call it the "expert' variant, where you let an expert do the same work. I have ears for that, too. I also need to discuss this with the TCMG. I know that, for the sake of legal hardness, a separation has been agreed between inclusion and assessment, but if a contractor can make a variation, I do not see why this variant could not be. So I'm gonna take this one. The previous one was already in development and is ready to roll out and scale up. In this case, there is still some study to be carried out. But I'll take the suggestion from the letter. I think she's serious myself, but I'm a little far from the lawyer. Then Mr Sienot has made another suggestion. He asked if you could just do something yourself; did I hear correctly that he said: you take a picture and you set it in motion? You can do something yourself. It's been experimented with. There's been a whole pilot. Damages less than $1,000 but how do you know before you send the photo? Anyway, anyone can see that, the hair tearing segment............................................................................................................................................................ There was no interest in this, but the judgements were actually very negative. Even the Groninger Soil Movement has said: you should not do this. People need someone who knows about it and who comes to see such damage. If people themselves are not enthusiastic about it, if there is not much interest in it, and if the advice of the organisations that focus on it is also negative, I am inclined not to go through with it. There is also very little volume to be expected. All in all, we have the situation that almost every week from July onwards, but almost every week, the number of recordings was higher than the number of incoming damages. So the recording mountain is dwindling. But then we get to the reviews. That's the second step. That second step isn't the bottleneck. There's a lead time in that process. There's a lead time between the recording and the assessment. In particular, it is used to submit a proposed decision to a person who has been affected, so that he can comment on it. For example, people can say: I do not think this is a real judgment; I do not agree with the amount of money or the causality that is referred to. That is important, because we do not want to give the impression that we are a machine that goes over people. You want to be in dialogue. You want to hear if people can agree to that before you make a final decision. So, yeah, there's a lead time. The reviews that are now running are those of the recordings of, say, two months ago; I don't know if I'm doing that estimate all right. But there's no bottleneck there. You can try to reduce the lead time, but then you give people less time to respond to a planned decision. So there's no lead time in this. It also has value that we do this carefully, because so far the number of objections remains open to people to object; it is a public organisation, with possibility of objection and appeal under administrative law, limited to about 2.5% of the number of cases. That's very neat. That's neat. Of course zero is always better, but there is now a careful process according to objective standards, although of course it can still be that people would have preferred a different amount in the end. But the process is solid in itself, and I'm a little hesitant just to reduce the lead time, not to lighten the bottleneck, to give people less opportunities to have a say in it. Well, then we have the question of the pardon. Here he comes, and this is hard for me. I'm not disgusting about pardoning you. But what's a pardon? A pardon is if you take an amount, like a pgb, but do not yet know if that is right and then you can refund the amount. That's a general's pardon. You know what the desire is: to be admitted to a country or to receive an amount as a supplement or a compensation for something you know the damage of. You know what you want and you decide not to control it anymore. You can do that with part of the volume, in people who are close to an earthquake zone, under this or above that. You can do all kinds of things, but you can't do it here, because our file sometimes consists of a phone number. We have damage reports that consist of an 06 number. Then you have to call people and say: your 06 number is in a file, I don't get any excuse at all, I want to know what's going on, I don't know who you are, I don't know what the damage is, I don't know what the amount is. There are also damage reports that are documented with name, address, place of residence and telephone number, but where there is no knowledge of what the damage is. You can't say: oh, I'll pay that $1,000 without control. There is no question of €1,000 at all. You don't know what to do. The best way to apologize, which comes as close to it as possible, is the builder's variant. In doing so, people invite a affiliated contractor, who, after a brief procedure, can simply proceed and remedy the damage immediately. But that's not possible here, otherwise we would have thought about it. In the beginning, there were all kinds of insurance comparisons. Was it Mr Van Rooijen who brought that up? No, it was Mr. Sienot. In the insurance world, where you know a claim, you can decide to go deep into it, take a test or believe it. We thought about this at the beginning of course, but since you don't have the beginning of an amount, you can't do that in many cases, in almost all cases. It's not the bottleneck either. If we were to decide more quickly now, let us say that we have the amounts, the process as a whole will not go any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr. Van Rooijen. I see your phone again. The third time, I'll confiscate your phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u154	This applies equally to advances. Mr Van Rooijen's advances are a kind of two-thirds of a general's pardon. That's what I'm struggling with. That is why I have hesitation. Another reason might be that our judge, the TCMG, was not able to hear that from him. That wouldn't be my argument. I didn't get that. This makes it very difficult to create a general pardon, and it's not the bottleneck either. My solution would be to maximize capacity as much as possible. This means that I want to seriously examine whether option 1C of the region can work. I'm working on option 1D, the contractor variant. Full-fledged, let's do that. I am working on something that is not yet in the letter, but which is obvious: capacity increase, productivity increase per employee. All these things we have to do. This has been addressed in the past period. That has also led us to go from 40 to 400 a week and I would like to go even further. That's my line of action. I'm not at the end of my Latin for solutions yet. Not everything could happen right away, but from 40 to 400... Maybe there's more in there. That's my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u155	I believe that the Minister is doing the same thing as he has done in recent years, from the technocracy, from the bureaucracy: we only have a telephone number and that is why we cannot do this and it is not the bottleneck. Well, everyone knows how many years people sometimes go to trial, sometimes to court. Hiltje Zwartberg and Annemarie Heite are known, but there are still a lot of people we visit who don't want to be known, but they're in the same shit. Sorry, chairman, you're having a hard time looking at those in the same misery and they know it's the bottleneck. So I ask the Minister: is he willing to look from the people? Something's going on or they won't report it. Otherwise there's no phone number, otherwise no damage has been reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u156	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u157	Then he can approach anyone who's checked in, can't he? I can see some real downsides, though. It is not easy in terms of legal certainty. There are disadvantages to this solution, but you are right to have a reasonable solution for those 18,000 people who have been waiting for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u158	I'm very much in favour of the reasonable solutions. The only reason I'm doing this here with all the energy is because I know 17,000 people are waiting for compensation. That is something I said quite clearly about more than a year ago. There is no difference of opinion between Mr Nijboer and me. None. I have followed his interim contributions to the debates and I cannot take a word of that away. But my responsibility here is to provide solutions that can and help them. If on the basis of a phone number I have something to apologize to a general... I don't even know how that works. I think if there's a phone number, we should serve people with, for example, the builder's variant. In addition, you say: you can rely on this variant and we can also offer you that. Then someone comes along who's mandated to just fix that damage. That helps. We might as well have the expert variant later. Then an expert comes to you, a connected expert, for beunhazen there is no space that can judge it. The attractive thing about that is that you don't have to control Groningers but you have to control professionals. They don't need to check people with damage in Groningen for anything. All we have left is a relationship with a contractor who has to do his job properly. Well, that's our concern. This way we relieve the people who have damage. I'm in favour of getting rid of the 17,000. I want to get through it. I have the greatest desire for us to look at a normal process, with a normal working stock, all in proportion, so that people know that they will get their damage within a certain time. But only suggest solutions that technically do not work... Technology counts, too. I have to come up with something that works. Too often there are things that have not been delivered and I cannot afford to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u159	That's what we're in the middle of right now. The Minister is undoubtedly trying with the best will in the world, and I do not want to discuss it at all, to push everyone through a funnel he himself has invented. And that funnel's all clogged up and stuck. There are 18,000 individual cases, each with their own wishes and problems. Some cases even lie with the judge, some with the NAM. Some people have a farm, others are self-employed whose shop has to close. It's never gonna work with an extra one-and-a-half shot a day. That's not gonna work. You're jammed. Then we'll be back here in a year just like we're standing here today. That's why I say draw a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u160	But there is no other way to compensate for damage than to look and get a picture of what the damage is. That is what the people themselves think, and that is the only way to do it technically. If you skip that station, there's nothing left to pardon general, there's nothing left to do. We need to know what the damage is. People appreciate that, too. People would like an expert or a contractor or a contractor to look into the damage and then give them certainty that the damage will be compensated. And there's the bottleneck. We are not done talking, I would like to go along with Mr Nijboer. We have not finished talking, we have not yet reached the borders, we must be able to do more. Because we don't want this situation like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u161	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u162	Of course, some of the people already have it in common, they have an expertise and a counter-expertise, that's where this has already happened. You can just say "yes" to that, can't you? That would be a few thousand cases of the 18,000 that lie there. There's no one here in the room, Mrs. Beckerman isn't, not me, claiming that anyone who's called... Of course, someone's got to come and see that. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u163	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u164	But there's really a whole difference between someone who comes to see you and then you have to go back to the whole process of judging, counter-expertise, disagree, and just agree with an expert, tell what to do, hire a neighborhood contractor and get them going. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u165	I really like that builder variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u166	...that's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u167	I'm very supportive of that builder's variant. This is the builder's variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u168	But in all honesty, people have been at it for years. There are more and more lawsuits and there are-I know-how many arbitration cases. This is all contrary to what is now being claimed and to the generosity that has always been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u169	The oldest damage cases in this case are indeed from April 2017. They're still in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u170	That last remark is simply factually incorrect. I have just offered a black book with 90 stories, including from people who are fighting from 2012 onwards and people have very thorough reports that do have an amount of money. I'm trying to ask the question one more time. If you are willing, I ask the Minister through the chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u171	Is the Minister willing, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u172	So there are people who have been fighting with the NAM since 2012, who sometimes already have a verdict from an arbitrator and then still have to fight or who have a court ruling and have to fight on. Those people know an amount, maybe through a counter-expert. Can we start there with the general's pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u173	Here Mrs Beckerman is talking about the cases that are not in the TCMG, but the older cases. I'll take a look at that, but I don't have a visual on those cases. There are cases that lie with the arbitrator. I think that's another 1,000 or so. Of the 6,000 old cases, 1,000 are now with the arbitrator. That arbitrator's gonna judge that. It's got extra capacity, too. That seems to me to be the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u174	This scares me. I don't have a visual on those cases, did I just hear the Minister say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u175	I don't know the nature of these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u176	I don't have a visual on these cases, the Minister just said. I have argued here in the Chamber: please do not let the NAM deal with those old cases, but also make a general pardon for that. That is what I argued here in July, and now the Minister says that he has lost sight of it. So we leave the people who have been fighting with the NAM for years to fight with the NAM and the minister says, "I don't have eyes on that anymore." Are the words you just said correct or was this a slip of the tongue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u177	I know the nature of the cases in the TCMG. Those are people who haven't been to court, but have filed damages there. There's a multitude of other cases in the old cases. 1,000 haven't been handled by the NAM. They are now with the arbitrator and I think he should judge that. But these are far more diverse cases that I find very difficult to make general statements about. There are also cases of people who may have already been to court or even had various different judgments about them. I find that more complicated. I can't see that. It's in the arbiter's office, and he's looking at all these cases. The arbitrator has been given additional capacity for this and if he wants to have more capacity for it, he will have it. It is intended that this calendar year should also be completed and already earlier than at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u178	I see a minister pulling it off, saying it's with someone else, it's with someone else. But it was a political choice of this cabinet to let those people fight the NAM with an arbitrator or a judge. I would really ask the Minister to understand these matters and to make sure that those people now often have to fight with the NAM after such a ruling by the arbitrator for years to come. I find it really insufferable that you say now: they are old cases, I know nothing about them and I am not about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u179	They're not in the NAM anymore. There are no more cases at the NAM. These are the cases, which are 1,000, which lie with the arbitrator and the NAM has undertaken to comply with the verdicts of the arbitrator.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u180	They don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u181	But they don't. Then I would like to say to Mrs Beckerman that I fully understand the extent to which the NAM complies with the rulings of the arbitrator.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u182	And you'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u183	And I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u184	Good. Then Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I find the Minister's argument very strange. It is quite a good idea for Mr Nijboer, as he says, to draw a line below the 17,500 cases and simply pay them out. And then the Minister says: we are not going to do that, because there have been cases where we only have a telephone number. That's a weird argument, isn't it? Then why is it that the Minister is not prepared to deal directly with the cases that are perfectly clear, complete claims for damages? The Minister himself should be pleased, because that saves a lot. It cleans things up a little bit. That should make him happy. So why isn't he willing to do that? What's behind that? Is it a matter of money? What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u186	No, it's not a penny issue. The issue is that if you report a damage, then those are the new damages. You'll report damage. Then someone comes to take up the damage; that is also appreciated. We tested that you could take a photo yourself and that you could get your damage compensated by an accelerated procedure, but there was very little interest in it. People appreciate someone coming to take the damage. This is also necessary in many cases, in the vast majority of cases, because someone who reports a damage does not automatically report the amount. If I have a crack in my wall, I'll report that I have a crack in my wall. But I'm not gonna be able to put an amount on that. It's necessary for a pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u187	I understand that, but then the Minister can draw a line among those cases that are quite clear? These are complete claims for damages, in which the amount is clear and therefore not just a telephone number. If we only have a number, then of course we're gonna call, then we're gonna sort it out, and then we're gonna do some research. Sure, that's necessary. But why not pay in those cases that the claims are complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u188	I'd like to discuss that with the TCMG, but I understand that there aren't so many of those cases. I don't have a problem with bringing this up. I am open to all the solutions that work, but the analysis shows that it is unlikely to work. If it does work, I think it's wonderful. If this can be done within the standards and if we do have amounts for that, then I am prepared to investigate everything. I've been doing that for a while. We've increased speed by a factor of ten. If there's anything else in it, I'm very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u189	Can the Minister explain how many cases are not complete? Does he have any figures on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u190	I understand most of them aren't complete, if you call it complete when there's an amount. I just made a commitment that I'm going to discuss this with the TCMG, but I don't have much hope. Again, I am willing to do anything acceptable in the TCMG's method, which is also quite willing to adapt its method in a variety of ways, and what also works technically and leads to acceleration. But in general, I say that where it takes over assessment capacity, it is not an acceleration. Wherever we can organize additional recording capacity, it'll help. If this is the way not to have to record it, it would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u191	The Minister says: I am open to all options.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u192	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u193	I mentioned the advance option myself. The Minister said something about that. Now, if I'm gonna put it simply, you're gonna go to a recognized contractor, a recognized expert. We can make lists of them, or they're already there. That's what you're asking to see, and it makes an estimate. Then you could say that in the private world with last year's storm damage: we are prepared to give an advance on that valuer, that expert, that contractor. We'll give you an advance of half or two thirds. I pulled the parallel with the pgb and the surcharges. I'm a bit of an outsider in this file, except that I'm following it intensively, but we've both been responsible for the IRS at the time when the surcharges didn't exist yet. With the surcharges it was eventually necessary to say, without control, that we are going to spend many, many billions simply on the basis of old data. If the new information is to be available in due course, then it may be necessary to recover it. This is now happening on a large scale, and fortunately this is gradually working well. We do. The pgb file was a big mess. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs was taken off. It went to Secretary of State Van Rijn, but it didn't come out either. He dumped it at the Social Insurance Bank, which wasn't equipped for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u194	Now back to the gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u195	Yeah, excuse me. He threw it on the board of the Social Insurance Bank. The director was fired almost immediately. He should have said, "We can't do this." But it did, because The Hague didn't solve it and so the Social Insurance Bank, which by the way performs the AOW perfectly, had to do it. He couldn't do this, but he had to. Then the Chamber said: it will be paid without control. For two years, 2 billion has been paid out each year to the people entitled to it, so that they can pay their expenses out of that backpack. What I don't understand is that we're so complicated about this. These are also two bodies governed by public law. Are you prepared, if someone is going to work for themselves, to pay an advance of half or two-thirds on the basis of an approved contractor and thus not a brunette, but a recognised expert who comes up with an estimate of the damage? And then it's settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u196	The builder variant is already based on that, but not two thirds, but completely. So in the builder's variant, you're not only gonna get the compensation very quickly, but you're gonna have to pay for the damage, because that contractor does. That's not the point. My point is this. I have someone here on the interrupting microphone who has been professionally responsible for collecting and paying out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u197	In that order!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u198	We'll share that. It's an unpleasant task, but we both went through it. Then Mr Van Rooijen knows that it is impossible to pay someone two thirds of an amount that is completely unknown. What do I have to pay for? We have a pool of cracks or reports here. What's two thirds of an amount? What amount? We'll know that at the pgb's. We'll know that at the surcharges. We know that with all kinds of damage to bumpers that have been assessed by now, but here we only know the length of the tear. You can't afford two-thirds of that. If it is possible and where it is possible, I am prepared to look at it at all times. We're trying to increase capacity in all kinds of ways. But when it comes to two thirds of an unknown amount, I'm full of teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u199	You don't have to teach me that lesson. I get that, too, like everyone else in this room. With the self-to-the-stroke variant of "that's what I call it," I meant the following. You're asking a contractor to come see me. He says, "I'll give you an estimate." It'll be on paper and I'll send it to the agency that's going to do it. He says: okay, you can get started; you will get an advance on that estimate, on the offer. Well, then that could just be paid out, couldn't it? I myself had the example of storm damage last year. This affected the whole of the Netherlands in January. With me, a whole bum flipped over. I'm bringing in a contractor, and he's making me an offer. I'll send it to the insurance company. The insurers received tens of thousands of damages, but within two weeks I received no doubt 50% of that amount. After the work was done, the rest came with deduction of one's own risk. That's what I was thinking. Why can't we do this here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u200	Well, the builder's variant is even more beautiful. The contractor's recording it. That's a connected contractor, and he's gonna fix it. It doesn't fix two thirds. He'll fix everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u201	No, okay. Fine, then we'll do 100%. My point is this. That variant has only recently arrived. That's 400 cases, and that's all gonna be speeded up. But why can't we be paid 100% to everyone who has an amount instead of or next to a possible general pardon? Please note: I'm talking about an amount on paper, an estimate, an official quote. This also applies to the surcharges on the basis of the old data. If you see on the basis of samples that the offer or estimate was not entirely correct and it was a little too high afterwards, you can say: you have to pay back a piece. That's the way it goes with the surcharges. At the surcharges...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u202	I'll make it much prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u203	... thousands of euros will be recovered if you have had too much on the basis of your old income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u204	I think your point is clear, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u205	Why are we being such a pain in the ass here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u206	Mr Van Rooijen has been completely caught up in the tax administration's surcharge practice. It's going better in here. The contractor shall establish it and ensure that it is repaired. Nothing with two thirds of anything or half or everything or recovery. The purpose of this variant is to fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u207	Last remark, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u208	It's not two-thirds or 100% now. The point is that if someone gets to work and chooses a contractor, it can be dealt with very quickly and we do not say that it is there, but it only works for 400 trial cases. Can I make one more comment on another point? That was about the phone number from the injury case. Then we come back to common ground: black money. You yourself said and your predecessors said: "There will be a general pardon for black money. We do not know at all who they are or what amounts they are, but anyone who signs up for a certain date can arrange it with us without a fine. If you haven't done that before the end of the General's term, as is happening now, then you're screwed. Then you get a low fine first and if you wait any longer you get a fine of 100%." That's all been done publicly. So a general pardon as such is very well known, especially in the tax field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u209	I'm not fighting all that. All I'm saying is that a general's pardon is only possible if you can give up a pardon somewhere and not a tear of X cm in length.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u210	That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u211	No, Mr. Van Rooijen. I'm going to see Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u212	The basic question to which Mr Van Rooijen no longer wanted an answer, I am going to answer, because it is precisely the intention to make this variant available to a wide audience and not to 400 people. That's the idea. We're working on that. Scaling up, that's what I want. More, faster, more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u213	We agree on the builder's variant. I also agree with the Minister that there should be an amount known. So there has to be a recording. I find it difficult for the Minister to say that there is no bottleneck in the assessment. Now we're talking about an organization that's only been running for a few months, not even a full year, and we're going to scale up the number of recordings. The number of assessments will have to increase. I hear stories from people who don't get their first assessment and have been waiting for it for months. And then there goes another period of months in which you can appeal. I therefore find the Minister's conclusion that there is no bottleneck in the assessment too premature. The Minister mentions 2.5% objection, but more than 13% are rejected. Also there are people who think: I give up, I'm not going to object to the TCMG again. The conclusion that there is no bottleneck in the assessment has therefore been drawn far too early. I wouldn't do that if I were you, given all the previous experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u214	Let me take this as an advice. I hear Mr Van der Lee say that he has another hypothesis and that he thinks there is a bottleneck. I would also like to look at this, because if there is a bottleneck, we have to add capacity. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u215	My fear is that the quick addition of extra capacity to assessment means that new people are going to do work with which they still have to gain experience. All sorts of things go wrong. So the question is: how far in content do you really have to judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u216	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u217	That's what the discussion is about. The deeper you do that, the bigger the bottleneck and the more time you need. The discussion about a general's pardon is therefore about how deep that assessment is. Couldn't that be a little more generous, a little more generous? That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u218	Sure. I get it. This is also a discussion I am having with the TCMG, of course, and on the basis of that discussion we found that this was not a bottleneck. But I don't think it's a problem to check that again. It has often occurred that Mr Van der Lee received signals that I had not received. I cannot pick up all the signals, no matter how many people in the public gallery I know. If this is true, fine, I'm open to anything. There's not someone here who thinks we should slow things down. I think that's believable, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u219	I would like to return briefly to the 17,500 damage suffered by the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage. I have just spoken about this in my speech. I hear the Minister say that he thinks the builder's variant is feasible and interesting for further development. Now I really want to know what that means in concrete terms. This means that people who have reported a damage, up to a certain amount, can employ an approved contractor themselves, have it fixed and not even have to handle the account themselves, and that it is so simply arranged. Am I to understand that that's the builder's variant of all those 17,500 damages?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u220	That's the idea. In between, it is up to the TCMG itself to apply a certain degree of review, i.e. a type of test or a fiat, or that you still have to call or meet criteria. But the bottom line is, you don't use a recorder where there's a bottleneck, but you let a contractor come on the list and he assesses it and fixes it. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u221	That's clear. A contractor fixes it, and there are no more inspections, evaluators and recordings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u222	There may be a key in between, but I don't know exactly what kind of key that is, because that has to be designed in the scale. Basically, you're taking action. You let a contractor come in. And eventually you're stuck with a repaired wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u223	I would like it to be very sharp because I had also prepared a motion. I am concerned that it is being carried out as we agree, and that at least the Minister is working on it. If I understand correctly, the Minister's intention is to have as few other parties as possible. I would very much like to know when the Minister will be able to inform the Chamber exactly what that will look like and when that will start tomorrow, preferably, but well, as soon as possible, what the amount is, and how that will be determined. I can imagine that the average for this kind of damage is being looked at. Unfortunately, we now have a lot of experience with damage in Groningen. I can imagine it being looked at in this way, but I would very much like it to be more concrete, so that we can really define what we have agreed with each other and how we are going to take this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u224	What kind of criteria this committee uses to test something, whether it is an amount at all, or whether it is not necessary at all, I will leave that to the committee. I think it's important that we describe what's for people, and what it's like for the people who appeal to them. Do you have to call? Are you being approached? How does it work? This should be described from the point of view of the claims claimr. The next letter to the Chamber which I have in mind on that, when I am a little further, is before the end of February. Then perhaps we know a little bit more about the measures in terms of capacity and we have more insight into this too. I hope I can include it in that. I will see if I can outline what that looks like and, of course, what the effect is. We're at 400 a week now. What does it do with the numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u225	I would also like to thank the Minister for a specific moment. I do not want to ask things that are not feasible, because then we all go home with false hopes and expectations, and I do not want that. But if the letter can be brought forward or if the Chamber can be informed of this separately, it is always welcome. It would be nice if it were able to do so when it entered into force. It would be nice if the Minister could look at that with the TCMG, if there were no more things to set up and if it just says: as many March people can just call there, there are the contractors, and you can just fix it. I hope that at least that will be the Minister's commitment and that that will be the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u226	I can say something about that. It's already started, of course. We do a few hundred damages in this way, also to gain experience and see how the process can be even better. The estimate for the general opening of this variant is somewhere in April. That's what the committee says. That was first May, but that seemed to me... Well, May is May again; I prefer April. So we are now trying to do that in April. I will try to outline, as far as possible, what that might look like as early as February. Once again, I do so with an independent party that still has a bit of the status of a judge. So you don't decide all the legal procedures yourself. But I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u227	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u228	We have, of course, also set this up with an independent party, but I think that must go hand in hand with a strong signal from the Chamber: fix it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u229	Thanks for the backwind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u230	I can tell I'm a little impatient after all. We have a general discussion on 31 January, a committee debate on mining matters. It would actually be very nice if the Minister could give feedback instead of the end of February. Because such a builder variant, that must be soon to come out with the region, I would think. I can also imagine that in that variant you do a check at the NCG, like: is this house on the high risk list? Otherwise, we will get exactly the picture we have seen over the last few months, namely that people may get compensation and then the house will be demolished. I can imagine that the Minister doesn't want that and that residents don't want that either. The other case I put forward was about people getting a few tiles reimbursed, while that bathroom with a slightly firmer reinforcement measure for the future would not have to be repaired again for the tenth time. I can imagine that check coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u231	That was actually the next issue, because that is just a bit more fundamental than just the contractor approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u232	So that's what you're going to come back to? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u233	It goes without saying that, at the end of January, I would like to be asked where I stand. I don't know if I can say much about it then, but I have printed the date well in my head, so I'll try to tell you what I can tell you about this variant. But that connection between the damage company and the reinforcement company is quite a fundamental point. Mrs Mulder made that point, but it was raised more often in the debate and it is also in the letter from the region. Mrs. Mulder made it very lively. It outlined a situation in which there was a damage which would then be remedied and the tiles would have to be thoroughly reinforced or even demolished. In itself, I don't think we're waiting for houses that are about to be demolished. I think that, first of all, there is a need for a proper connection between the reinforcement and the damage business, and then, in fact, in the opposite direction. It is rarely the case that you say at the backup: Oh, dear, there is still an overdue damage here. It can happen that you come for a damage and say: well, there is also something about safety. Then it could be that house is on the list and it's later on. Then it is quite surprisingly often so that people are entitled to it, even though we may not think it logical; people have a right to say that people say and can say that: I just want the damage to be repaired, because I live here perhaps eight months before my house is strengthened; I just want it to look decent. They're entitled to that. It's okay. That's what we do if the residents want us to do. That's their right. Of course, you can consult with them and ask them if that is wise. It's possible. It is important that these two companies are connected together. So it can happen that the damagetaker gets somewhere for a damage and thinks: I don't know much about seismicity, but there is something about this house. Then you should be able to report that to the damage company. Yesterday, agreements were made between the National Coordinator Groningen and the chairman of the TCMG to make that handover smooth. It's crazy if the damage taker sees sloping facades or dangerous situations and doesn't report that. It is not up to a computer model to be the only one to determine which house should be inspected. There may well be reports of a house that needs to be recorded through damage practice. Those appointments were made yesterday. This is important because it is not wise to launch this as two separate operations across the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u234	But then there is the question of what happens to preventive measures. I've spoken to a number of people from the area. Let's say my apartment's out of control. The façade is healing. Up to 5 to 6 cm that is not an acute dangerous situation, I have been told. But if you get to 10 centimeters, that's it. In practice, we are now waiting for that 10 cm. That's just weird, right? Surely the Secretary of State agrees with the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u235	Yes. If we tell someone to wait until his façade gets a little shaver, we're in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u236	But does the Minister therefore think that action should be taken at that time and that preventive action should be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u237	I can't judge that. Now I'm talking to a MP who, like me, doesn't know so much about sloping facades or seismicity. We are then discussing with each other what we as laymen think is wise. I wanted to leave that to the experts. If it is clear that a façade due to seismicity is continuing to decline, there is little point in lubricating cracks. Then it makes sense to consider whether this should be included in the strengthening approach in any way. I don't know if all the cases with a facade are lead. The façade of my house is also a bit out of control, but I wouldn't recommend it anyway. That could all be very different in Groningen. That's what the experts have to determine with each other. But the handover is here and those appointments were made with each other yesterday. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u238	In the first period, I specifically asked where the bottlenecks for implementation are. I hear the Minister say: if I come to the builder's variant and it seems to be going to succeed, then they are actually not there anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u239	No, I didn't say that. That's too rosy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u240	Okay, well, then we're gonna be a long way. Let me put it this way. But that's not really my question. What if that builder's variant is about to bring in a lot of stuff? I have two questions. I do not know whether the Minister has tried to remodel in the past period. I've heard from people in The Hague that you're not getting a contractor at all. With me on the Veluwe, you can still do that if you have a real house contractor. What is the market situation in Groningen? My question is really whether this is real. Do contractors have enough space and capacity to do so? That's question one. Then there's my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u241	Maybe first I'll give you the answer to the first question. Then you'll have the opportunity again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u242	The market exploration of the NCG suggests that there is indeed capacity, both for damage recovery and for reinforcement. Contractors have also made offers to the NCG. So that should work. But the proof of the pudding is in the eating. I have always found it very difficult in this dossier to make very definite statements about something, because reality is always more uncomfortable. It is always true that implementation is a lot more complicated than policy making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u243	That was actually what I was referring to. There's been a market exploration. You can't do more than that right now. Clear. Then there's my second question. I've had to deal with contractors in infrastructure quite often from a previous profession. What we always bumped into was that if you don't have the contracts clearly there's always discussion about more work, that the place is stalling, and so on. You've got the contracts for your own good. I hear a variant here. You can call that contractor yourself, but if you're not careful, he's not gonna be human right now. A contractor's gonna write strangely with the fork. Has that been considered, or is it being tested in that first phase? Or maybe that's something we'll be back here for in a year? I'm not asking out of trouble, but really to see if that's not gonna be a new bottleneck. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u244	Not a bottleneck, but we all know that we have a great desire here to make speed. We have also had this desire sometimes with surcharges: turn them out before it is final. We have had this in many areas. We all know that cutting corners of society is simply desirable, and I dare say in this case that it is necessary. But we all know that this is at the expense of care. So we have to accept that if we want to make more speed, with fewer controls and fewer tests, we do work with connected contractors, and there are irreversibly things that, according to the accountant, we would prefer not to have. It's no different. We have to accept that. In this case, that's for a good cause. It's not funny, but we have to face it. If we want everything airtight, those 17,000 damages will never come from the band. With full water density, we can't get a high pace. We're not doing that now. There are now also considerations and sample cases. Not everything gets a thorough look at. That's always the case in a damage business. But we know that that's gonna get you killed, that's gonna slow down the precision. We must accept this in the interests of the good cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u245	I'm glad to hear this, too. Nor is my appeal: do everything carefully. But my appeal is: really look at that and take care of a certain degree of care, so that later the whole work will not stop and stop again. I hear the Minister say good things about that. Actually, I was just gonna pass it along, and I hear it's been taken over, so thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u246	We're getting somewhere. This is already much more concrete than the Minister's response in the letter. That's very positive. Just a few more moments about the photo variant, which it was also about and for which there has been a pilot. I don't think we're talking about the same thing. What matters to us is that it is up to €10,000, and I'm just going to call it a sum of $10,000. You can take a picture. There's a contractor coming into the house first. You can make your own deal with that. That takes a picture of the situation as it is and a picture of the situation as it is taken. And the receipt goes straight to the TCMG. Has that option been tested, is my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u247	I think this is the builder's variant. But the variant that I thought Mr Sienot was referring to and which was tried is that people are just taking their own photos, sending them and getting compensation for their damage. People weren't much of a porter for that. They want a professional taker at the door anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u248	Clear. Then it's fantastic that with the builder's variant we end up talking about the same thing. As far as the photo variant is concerned, I find it very interesting to offer it to the people as an option. That not everyone wants to use it still means that enough people might want to if they hear all the stories about the enormous length of time. Then you have a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u249	It is just that, in my opinion, this was the Groninger Soil Movement or the Gasberaad. has also received a very negative opinion, after negative experiences. So I find it a bit iron heinous to say: "We in The Hague now know that that is a good idea. You didn't think it was a good idea, but we're gonna do it anyway." The term 'iron hein' rarely refers to Mr Sienot, who is always optimistic and always wants to move forward, but together we must be careful not to rule the province from this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u250	Well, I wouldn't bring in an option like that if I wasn't in close contact with people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u251	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u252	But having said that, let us, above all, put our hands on it together. If the builder variant gets the most applause, I'm not in it. Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u253	First of all, I would like to underline Mrs Beckerman's speech and thank the Minister for the commitment, because I too am getting signals that, despite the efforts of the arbitrator, people are not being properly served. I'm really worried about that. I therefore welcome this commitment to Mrs Beckerman. My question is about the person I brought in in my speech. I understand very well that the Minister cannot deal with individual cases. But this was someone from April 2017. That is one of the oldest damages. He said, "I got a receipt and then it stayed quiet." What is this gentleman supposed to do, having heard today's debate? Does he have to wait a few months and then the address is on the website with him? Is he gonna get another letter? Once again, I understand that the Minister cannot deal with cases, but these are the cases that reach us as a representative of the people. What can I tell this gentleman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u254	It is, of course, irrevocable that under 17,000 there is now estimated to be as much as 500, now that we have done about half of the album from April/May 2017. They're very old. It is complicated to give priority to one group over another by means of a debate in the Chamber. But it is very crucial how the information goes to these people. I just need to check that out. But then I'll do it for the whole group of old cases. What's the flow like? How often do people hear anything? How do they hear when they're next? Is that predictable? I'm gonna go into that. I'll look at that with some precision. I would like to stress that I think Mrs Beckerman's message to the arbitrator is important, and then nothing will be important. We've always said that this arbiter is some kind of stop on the bottle. If the stopper on that bottle isn't waterproof, it would be annoying. So we need to see which cases occur. I am very happy to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u255	I interpret the Minister's response just now as an undertaking to look explicitly at communication again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u256	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u257	I think that is extremely important. Thank you for that. My second question concerns the following. I've seen on the TCMG's website that they're closing in. They're so proud of that. I'm glad that's happening, too. But there is a working stock of 17,500. I have read somewhere, in one of the many documents before this debate, that it is intended that the work stock will be resolved by the end of this year. Nevertheless, my question to the Minister: what gives him the confidence that at the end of this year people really got a reaction to those 17,500 damage cases and they can also get to work on handling the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u258	I say honestly that I find it too uncertain and I am concerned about that. I know that it is the expectation of the chairman of the TCMG, but I really do not think expectations with so many uncertainties surrounding them are trustworthy enough. Moreover, I do not think that "end of year" is satisfactory. I intend to pursue acceleration options again, as discussed, in the conversation with the TCMG. I want it to go even faster. I find it unsatisfactory, surrounded by too many uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u259	Of course, it's not nice to hear that we're insecure about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u260	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u261	I think it's realistic. I agree with all the previous speakers who have asked the Minister to keep the Chamber informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u262	Sure, sure. I made that commitment. It's my honor to leave it at that. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on backup. The call for speed in the damage handling can be repeated one-on-one for the reinforcement. Let's go back to July 2nd. On the 2nd of July, the joint directors were...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u263	I see Mrs. Agnes Mulder go to the interrupting microphone. Before you move on to the next subject, Mrs Agnes Mulder will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u264	Of course, I thought it was a very good commitment to Mrs Beckerman and then Mrs Dik-Faber. But we still have that general consultation on the 31st. Can the Secretary of State just give a firm undertaking that he'll come back to the situation with regard to those cases? Otherwise, when it is said "there is a return to it," it stays in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u265	I'll say I'll get back to it, but I'm not sure I'll be out of it. But then let's settle it. Then I also know when I might be out of it if it isn't at the end of this month. I am very happy to make that commitment. And I'm sure there's still damage questions in the rest of the questions. Forgive me for a moment. I am going to pass through the questions I personally wrote down by all the speakers. Now I would like to take the step towards the strengthening approach. Besides, I'm going back to July 2nd. That's when we sat together as drivers. We then examined and discussed the Mining Council's opinion. Then we saw that the Mining Council had very sharp warnings about the old approach. That wasn't surprising either, because we were over 90% behind and really weren't in the process of securing safety. We were given strong advice to do that very differently. Briefly and bluntly said: with less precision, but with more speed. It is certainly true that it is not a secret that not all the directors at the table were enthusiastic about all the parts of the opinion, but it was said that we would work on this along the lines of the Mining Advisory Committee in order to arrive at a plan of action. My main point, though I was certainly not the only one in that room, was that we had to try to start as soon as possible where we could. We didn't have to wait until everything was finished, because we already knew about a large number of houses and so on. That's when we started preparing that plan of action. What did we do before that? We first made administrative agreements on two tranches. We have agreed on all kinds of principles. That's when a plan of action was made. That is the plan of the National Coordinator Groningen. The list also needed to be refined. We started with 1,500 houses, but if you take the safe side, inspect well and add where there's doubt, you'll get to 3,000 houses. The National Coordinator Groningen also worked out the approach to acceleration. How is that supposed to happen and in what order, with streets, trains and you name it? We've come this far to know which houses we're talking about. The plan of action was completed somewhere in November. Since that time we must therefore know which houses we should start with. That is updated every year, so we don't yet know which houses to end up with, but we do know which houses to start with. Then I had the noble task of basically transforming the agreement into a payment contract with the NAM. That too has lasted until November. That had a lot of feet in the earth and the outcome of that is that the NAM should no longer interfere with what is necessary for safety. The NAM therefore does not determine what is necessary for safety and does not assess what is necessary for safety. The NAM no longer has a say in this, but pays everything that is necessary for safety. If the experts decide what's necessary for security, all I have to do is give it a slap and then it goes to the billing department. So the money's settled. We also know which houses we're talking about. And for Christmas, I signed the work order. This means that the implementation organisation NCG, an implementation organisation whose ownership lies with EZ, has received a work order to do all 3,000 recordings. It is not just about P50, but you can also put a certain amount of P90 houses in there, because they connect, are neighbors or are stuck with or that sort of thing. Then we are almost finished in some cases just finished with the implementation plans. Those were made by the local steering committees. That also makes sense, because the safety judgment is really part of the story: what is needed for these houses? We now know that we have 3,000 houses to record, but it is really up to the local steering committee to tell us where to start. The Hague really does not know the streets of the municipalities. Ultimately, the local steering committee, the municipality, decides how to work with the safety package. Which houses first? Which one after that? All this must be done within the framework of security, but it must simply be in line with the needs and design of the villages and cities. That makes sense, too. Construction logistics is a point The Hague really doesn't know anything about. How do you make sure the workers get to the houses? All this needs to be properly prepared. That's what the local steering committees do. There are impressive plans. I've been presented with pieces here and there. There has been a lot of thought about how the safety statement fits the local needs. SodM has indicated to me that I am still reviewing a number of plans, because that of course has the task of checking whether these plans also lead to safety. That's not weird, because that's the supervisor who's supposed to be paying attention to that. But I asked SodM to complete that as soon as possible. I also had the proposal to do so this working day, but that went a little too far for the parties involved. Finally, residents' evenings have been held since that date. Loppersum alone organized 14 residents' nights. All this work is done. We know which houses are involved, we've informed the residents and there are local plans. In some cases there is still a need for a safety check, but in fact the starting conditions are pretty much met. We know which P50 houses we should start at. It is clear from the plans that sometimes a P90 house has to be taken. So that should be happening soon. In fact, I was there and I was in a number of congregations still hesitant. There are hesitations I don't share. There are representatives of the region who say: it is not at all true that the money is arranged; I do not believe it. Okay, then it's up to me to convince them that we have to get going. There are all kinds of questions and doubts: the walkways of the recorders are not known; there is no planning yet which people are put on them. Those are all things you say: if that's yet to happen, let's do it now. To the two municipalities I visited, I say that to the other for the same reason: let's sit down with Mrs Mulder's club and take stock of whether there are any obstacles. If the obstacles are on the side of the Empire, I'll solve them. If there are any obstacles on the SodM's side, I'll rush them. If there are any questions that need to be resolved within the region, then we need to solve them now. If there's anything else the NCG needs, we need to provide for that. We just need to get going. I really think the starting conditions are fulfilled. Where there are hesitations and questions, there is no other way than to put the thermometer in it. If there's anything else on it, we're gonna take care of it now. If we can move on, we must move on. After all, the work order is given, the P50 houses are known, the addresses are known. People who live in a P50 house have been asked to take the initiative for a recording. That is an interesting question that I will take with the region. In the whole of society, in the region, in this Chamber and with me, there is really no tolerance anymore for something that does not start yet. It can't go on. We've done all these things. I've been negotiating with the NAM in sweat. The local steering committees have worked their asses off to make wonderful plans. As soon as those plans are up and running, we're gonna have to get on with it. There's nothing else I can do. The capacity has to be there. I also asked the NCG: can you now record the 3,000 houses? Is there capacity for that? Yeah, there is. Is the capacity of the NCG flawless? No, probably not yet. I hear we still need residents' escorts. On many points there are still wishes. They're recruiting hard. There are advertisements in the regional media for new employees. This has to start now. The capacity's here. The houses are known. The money's not a problem. We've got to get going. And if there's anyone else I need to convince, if there's any of my unknown bottlenecks to be solved, if anyone else has to do anything else, then we need to settle it with each other right now. My invitation to everyone is: further obstacles out of the way and start. I'll do the hand-off for that. The P50 residences are entitled to a recording. So much for timing. Questions have also been asked about the approach, but there are fewer. I see five members on the interrupting microphones...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u266	Yeah, I can see that, too, but I want to know if all the first-term questions about the reinforcement operation have been answered by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u267	Let me take a look. There is still an important question about what we are doing with people who have had an inspection before. Those are certainly special cases. Many of them are in the so-called 1581-batch. Are they gonna be next? Should they line up in the back? They've already had an inspection and that means that these people don't have to have a recording at all. That would be superfluous, but there may be a question for some of them to assess. Whether these houses are unsafe could also be demonstrated by the annual update of the list, because every year we update the list. But we have simply stated that that is also the advice of the Mining Council; we do not have to deviate from that.... that people who feel unsafe in their home, even if that has already been inspected, can ask for an inspection, a recording. They can make sure this is true. Especially in the case of the 1581 this goes on. Those people have already been counted on and can therefore request a kind of re-evaluation of the seismicity and the situation today based on the previous inspection. Some people will want that. I think, probably with a number of municipalities, that it is unacceptable for a number of people to join in line at the back. It is the idea of simply clearing up capacity for this. It can't be for all these people, because then we're slowing down the P50s. We really need to be able to focus on the people in the most risky homes. Those people are entitled to that. In some cases, they've been scared to death. They really have a priority right to a recording, but it's reasonable to free up some capacity for those people we've dealt with before and who might be thinking, "Oh, my gosh, what am I in need of?" This means that we must give the people with the greatest sense of insecurity a little earlier in the process to have certainty about their security situation, because we have, of course, loosened a little from these people. We robbed them first with an inspection and then with a letter. It's crazy not to hear from you after that. But I do say that the focus should be on the P50 homes in the beginning. Of course, for social reasons, you can really afford exceptions. We're gonna have to do it here and there. This is one of those exceptions. Provided that the pace before the P50 is not sacrificed, we must also be tolerant to people who really for understandable reasons say: give me a break; just let me know where I stand; I've had terrifying letters at home. So that's the question I asked the NCG. This means that we also need to pay attention to this recording capacity. It may mean that you actually have a few more wishes about that recording capacity. Well, that'll have to do. Again, we're recruiting. There's no lock on it. We haven't put a financial lock on the NCG; what needs to be done. But that seems to me to be a reasonable compromise. That doesn't mean that you're putting everyone who's had an inspection through it with priority, because then you're really not doing the safety right. But you have to look with an open social eye at people who really think for good reasons: where am I at? Then at a later stage you may have to give more of those people a ruling, because there are people who are not terrified but eventually want to know. That's what you've gotten yourself into a little social with that old system. And then it's reasonable for you to look at it with an open eye. I have therefore proposed this to the NCG in that reasonable way and it will take it into account in its capacity planning. That is the answer to a question from Mr Sienot, among others, because there were others who asked for it. It was also in the region's letter, because that was also where this point was raised. Mr Sienot also asked whether the houses that have already received a reinforcement opinion would simply be strengthened, even if they were not from the new safety inspection... We cut off the old approach on April 23rd. But I am hard at it: people who, according to the old approach, had received a reinforcement advice and not those who asked for it afterwards, because that has the character of a WOB advice... There are just people who have received a letter from the NCG with a reinforcement advice and those people are just entitled to go through with it. We added the 1588 to that. Those people also have a right to continue the original plans as they were prepared. That didn't stop either, but it's running rough. It has never been explicitly stopped and houses have also been completed. 2018 was not a much worse year than the years before. But it's tough. So when someone tells me it's stopped, I always say no, but when someone says it's tough, I always say yes. 'Cause it's getting tough. It wasn't meant to stop and it didn't, but it didn't happen very quickly because of the payment conditions with NAM and so on. That was, of course, all the drama in the years before. So yes, those people are entitled to continue the old approach. I think those were the questions. I'm sure there were a few more, but that's how I wanted to do it. I shall come back to the remaining points later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u268	I have two specific questions. The Minister says a lot. He says very clearly what needs to be done and he says that safety is top priority. I would like the work orders or the work order for the NCG and the CVW to be sent to the Chamber. That would be my first question: is that possible? There are a lot of questions about that and there is confusion about it. Well, that's the order of work we should be able to see for ourselves. That's question one. Shall I ask my second question right away, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u269	Perhaps the Minister could say a few words about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u270	I think it's an unexpected question, but I have no problem with it. If the Chamber would like to see the assignment to the NCG for its controlling task, I have no objection to that. I'll get it to the Chamber: the assignment for 3,000 recordings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u271	The more transparency and clarity in this dossier, the better, I think. Just one more question for the sake of clarity; now we're going to go into those annoying batches and numbers for a moment. About that 1.581, the Minister says, if I understood correctly: if you have an annoying feeling yourself, you can call and look again at the house...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u272	No, I'm not saying that, because we've already had a look. Twice having people on the floor that you have to offer coffee, we shouldn't put the Groningers on either. The inspection has been done. It's about an assessment. For a limited number of people who are very concerned about this, space should be created. The bulk should now be given to the P50 homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u273	It is quite right for the Minister to correct me on this, because this is very closely listening if we want to keep all capacity free for security as a priority. So thank you for that. I would also very much like to know, now or in second place or with a letter, a little more clearly how these people can get that assessment. I notice that people react with: where should I go? Apparently, there are still questions about that. So if we can still fix that? For the category that still wants such an assessment, it would be helpful if we gave some insight into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u274	Here's what I'm gonna do? It also depends very much on the reservation and deployment of the capacity by the NCG. For that, he must have added up all the plans and made an overall plan. Depending on this, I may also be able to indicate the capacity reserved for this and I can be a little clearer. That is what I wanted to do at the moment when there is more clarity about the overall implementation, and I also think that we should set it in motion before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u275	You have a second term, Mrs Yeşilgöz. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u276	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I do feel the need to say that, at least as far as the VVD is concerned, it is quite clear that with only so much capacity, whether that is very much or limited or little, it does not matter whether security is the top priority. We'll share that. But the more insight we can give people about what it looks like after that and where people can go, the better it is for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u277	I believe that the Minister has said a lot of merit, including that he wants to remove all the last obstacles to achieving speed in implementation. He says all the time that the money has been settled, but then I think he means above all that he has dealt with the NAM and the companies. Those who have to do this in Groningen, in the region, also want money in cash, because they have to pay bills. Who gets what advance? Do they have an advance to do this sort of thing? Or do they have to advance it and declare it afterwards? Along with that, I ask the following question. You say that the steering committees, locally, are in charge. Do they actually determine how much money is being spent, or do they have to comply with conditions? And who's gonna test that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u278	No. Look, of course, no one in the region needs to pay bills or advances in terms of security. That would be really crazy. We're gonna order a house to be reinforced, and then we're gonna send the bill to those people? No, you can't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's gotta be much prettier. The work must simply be paid by the NCG and at the back door by the NAM. That's how it's supposed to go. We shouldn't let people come up with bills. Then you must indeed go ahead and recover. Then Mr Van Rooijen and I will take action again. These are all practices we do not want here. In many cases, the work to be done in the field of safety should be paid for by the NCG rather than demolition or new construction. People shouldn't have to interfere with that themselves. That wouldn't be fair. What should be determined independently by the experts is not only which house should be included or what should be added to the list. It's all not static and insights go on. It's also about what needs to be done about that house. In addition, there must be options for the resident. There are options for the municipality, but when it comes to an individual house, they are options for the resident. It has to be able to choose things and go for a certain package. That package just needs to be reimbursed. Then I do not think it is necessary for that committee to say literally per house what amount is available for that. If it is carried out in this way, and even if it turns out to be a little more expensive, it simply needs to be reimbursed. Overstepping reinforcement measures should not end up with a resident. That would be absurd. That's crazy. Those measures should therefore simply be implemented. The role of the steering committees is, assuming that these things need to be done, to determine, for example, the order in which they are to be carried out. That's very important. How do you ensure that the building site is accessible? What wishes do we have in the local community? How's the coincidence with other surgeries? I can imagine that if you want to work on the sewers, you don't benefit so much from the fact that reinforcements are also taking place, or on the contrary. At the same time, the committees are also going to consider whether certain areas should be renovated. There are other budgets for this and they are also available for those municipalities. They can combine that. They can say: if we start with all kinds of reinforcement measures in this street, if all those drive-in houses need to be strengthened in a certain way, let us immediately make sure that the street looks a little fresher. In the context of the Groningen National Programme, there are, of course, all kinds of budgets for this too. It is really up to the local steering committees, to the municipalities, to local democracy to take that together and say: that is what we want. It is not, of course, the case that the local alderman, but also the minister, can say: I think something else about security, I do not think it is necessary or is more necessary. It shouldn't be. Safety is a business. Assuming that security measures are implemented, there are many choices to be made by local steering committees. That's really up to them, and I shouldn't get involved in that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u279	For the moment, I can get out of here with this. I hope, however, that all these pathways will be developed and put on paper in governance. That is a promise you have made. It must be made clear how it lands and whether there is someone who is going to give a final blow or whether it is going to be in common agreement. That must be clear to all concerned. Finally, are you going to say anything about that indicator?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u280	Oh, yeah, I'd do that indicator. He'll come to the questions, too. Maybe a little bit about governance, how I'm in it now. I told you, security decisions are up to the professionals. That shouldn't be compromised. It shouldn't be the case that a resident has to think about what's safe. It shouldn't be the case that the Minister's hands are on it. I won't, but maybe my successor will. He might say: it could be a little less. We shouldn't have that. If security isn't credible with professionals, no one will believe it. So that's important. Then, as far as I am concerned, it is the local steering committee or the municipality that decides it further. Of course, it's not going to change the security measures. That's not the issue, but all the other things are. Who's the client now? I play with the idea that the municipality or the local steering committee is the client, as long as the safety is in order and there is someone watching, SodM or a separate institute of experts that we have before. Safety must, of course, be monitored. The security ambitions must be fulfilled. For the rest, I think it's a local issue. I don't see anything to run Groningen congregations from this room. I don't see anything in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u281	Then I'll go to Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u282	Following on from Mr Van der Lee's earlier questions on financing, the following questions: The whole point is, of course, that there is not for nothing very clear in the letter that we want something from pre-financing. This need exists because many projects ultimately serve different functions. The Minister said so himself. For example, we want to make some buildings more sustainable while we are close, we also want to strengthen two buildings in the same street and we want to do as much work as possible with work. We don't want all kinds of trucks coming in six times in a village. No, we want to do it efficiently and well, so everyone knows what they're up to at once. Well, there's the pain. They want to make such a plan, but they can't carry on, because they don't really know what kind of money they can count on. The minister says, "The money is here." I've heard him say that three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u283	You have pretty much summarised the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u284	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u285	What was the question? Hello, are you still there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u286	These municipalities do not ask for nothing: give us something of a pre-financing: if there are six houses in one street, we want a part from one pot, part from the other, arranged at the back, and let us arrange it at the front. And they can't right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u287	In general, the security account is simply paid to the contractor. Ready. Someone doesn't have to have besognes with that. I can imagine, we have had that in the past, that you say: 'God, here all kinds of tasks come together, there is one contractor going to do all these tasks together, so everyone has to put a certain amount in the box in advance.' I can imagine, but that's customization. I'm not against that at all. In general, however, it should not be the case that when a resident needs measures to his home, we confront that resident with an account. We just have to pay for it. It has to be done. Most cases are cases where you just just make things right. Then it really isn't up to you to send out bills. It just needs to be done. If you send accounts, someone will also be responsible for any exceedances. Those are all disasters. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u288	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u289	I can imagine that in complex projects other constructions are conceivable. I'll also see if there's room for that, but it's been there until now. Of course, deals have been made with corporations or other large parties. The care programme is an example of this, as are schools. These are all things where budgets come together and where you can imagine these kinds of constructions. So for big business, I can imagine it, but on average I don't want to give the impression here that individual Groningers should get bills from a contractor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u290	That's the last thing I'm talking about. What I mean is that municipalities just have project funding at once. With my somewhat too long summary just now, I tried to outline that this is more large-scale projects than strengthening one or two houses. Municipalities want that, but now they can't. There's the pain, and that's why they just want one pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u291	When it comes to larger projects, I can well imagine that kind of customization. However, let us not give the impression that this is a regular thing. But that is not the intention of Mr Sienot either. Where professionals sit together, so corporations, project developers, municipalities, all kinds of customization is conceivable. We are. In the case of schools and the care program, reinforcement money is bundled with other money and very creative solutions are devised. That's a lot of fun, and that's a lot of good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u292	Actually, I'd like to go back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u293	Oh...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u294	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u295	Yes. But I'll be brief. In December 2015, after the report of the Meijdam Committee, the government decided that Groningers could be ten times as unsafe as the other Dutch for five years. In 2015 we agreed that Groningers could be ten times as unsafe as other Dutch people for five years. That period will therefore end in 2020. My question to the Minister is whether we are going to extend that period. Are we going to say: Groningers can still be ten times as unsafe as other Dutch people? Or are you saying that I want that backup to be completed by date X? Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u296	This is my stomachache from a year ago. This is why the gas extraction is stopped. We just didn't make it happen. It didn't work. We haven't reached a tenth of the speed for the reinforcement we were aiming for. We haven't realized anything beyond the security we promised. So, the 10-4 for four years, I think it was, in fact, not even five years, or maybe five years, both of which didn't work out. Different course: gas extraction down. Now the State surveillance of the Mines has said that he believes that this should be settled within six to seven years, but that this is only acceptable if priority is given to the P50 homes. We will have to stick to that. It is an uncomfortable reality for me that we did not achieve the commitments at the time and we now have to go down very hard with the gas, unlike what we intended at the time, but that it does not go so fast that I will be at zero in 2020. In the second half of 2022 we come to a whole end, but it is not exactly as we imagined then and that is precisely why we are putting an end to gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u297	So in short: Groningers may be ten times more unsafe than the other Dutch. In addition, there is something I do not really understand about the Minister's response in his letter. If you say that as a government you have failed in this way, I don't really understand why the minister now comes up with a plan for the region together and says "let those local plans be leading instead of another newly rigged institution, don't give us that space" that he's taking over one-on-one. Why let another NAM computer model be much more leading than those municipal plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u298	Well, I don't see the contradiction there. I have just explained that I believe that, within the framework of security, the plans should be guiding, explaining that all kinds of budgets would be available. But then safety is the only thing that matters, and that is also the subject on which Mrs Beckerman is referring. Of course, we cannot have plans leading to safety, because we already have a security problem. That was the reason to stop the gas extraction. Then we must make it a priority now. Security is really at the top right now. It's a duty, isn't it? That's why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u299	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u300	Of course, safety is at the top. Does the minister actually say to me: if I leave it to municipalities, they don't put security at the top? The problem is that these municipalities know that, on the basis of real inspections, there is often a lot more coming up and saying: let us get to work on that now, let our own plans be guiding. Does the Minister have any concern that municipalities would not allow that security to be leading if they were based on inspections?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u301	I'm not gonna make that assessment, because I don't know about that. SodM does that. If that approves it and says it is safe and that it is a good translation of the priorities such as the experts who have identified each other in the Mining Council, I am satisfied with it. I'm not going to give separate judgments on safety anywhere in Groningen. It's clumsy when I do that. I don't know anything about that. I have said that experts must clearly identify what is needed for safety, both in order and in action. It is SodM that is currently watching if that is being performed and if that is being performed, of course I can live well with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u302	Then Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u303	Mr. Chairman. I hear the minister say he's gonna sit in a loft with the SodM and the NCG to talk about where the bumps are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u304	Yes, but also with the municipalities of course. We really need to get our heads together. I'll invite them. I can't make them, but that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u305	I am very happy that the Minister is supplementing this, because I hear from those municipalities that things are just not going well yet. One municipality makes plans and lays them out, but gets an agreement for three months. I think it's very logical that if you make a plan of action and you can only clarify for three months to your residents, it's not enough for such a municipality. Another sound I heard is that one has to visit the Ministry. I just really don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u306	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u307	I'm glad to hear the Minister says "I don't either." Then where's the problem? Why do municipalities still have to go to the Ministry for a signature or whatever? Nothing's gonna move in these municipalities until something happens at the Ministry. I'm really in the middle of a riddle and I'm asking the Minister what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u308	This is exactly the point. One thinks it's the other and the other maybe it's one. If there are things that are blocked on the side of the department, then we have to look at that. We need to solve the bottlenecks out there or what we think they are. We need to sit together in an invitation to the municipalities to do this together. I can't force it because we're equal governments, but I can invite you to look at each other then take a whole day's share of what it lacks. What does it take to start recording this month? What's it gonna take? What else do we ask of each other? I don't think I'm going to come to the conclusion that I'm asking something from someone else, but that I'd just like to start with the P50 homes. But if anyone else thinks there's another kink in the cable, I'd love to hear it. We need to solve it, we need to move on, and we need to stop looking at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u309	On the one hand, the answer reassures me, because the Minister says very clearly that he wants to talk to the municipalities to see where the bumps are. At the same time, of course, the Minister has already spoken a great deal with the municipalities and I have to say that things are just not going well yet. I wonder if, when the minister talks with municipalities again and we make nice arrangements again, that is really going well in practice. There have been countless agreements. All agreements have been made on paper, but in the execution it sticks. Isn't a lot more of a hands-on mentality needed? May I pass on the signals I'm getting to the minister and then we'll solve them by case? We had the Fazanthof last year; that was fantastic. But I just want to hear stories like that every week. I want to hear every week: there's gonna be so many houses fortified. By making agreements with municipalities every time, it is good on paper, but nothing happens in practice. I'm really looking for the translation into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u310	I'm gonna have to make a distinction. In the old approach, we pulled a lot of loose ends. I have visited a resident of one of the 1,588 houses which had no clarity yet, but which now seems to have been divided. So the money was already available, but now there are agreements about the distribution. I've seen that someone from a 1,467 residence was awaiting a plan. I've been to the fleece houses where there's clarity now. So a lot of things have been solved, but in the old approach there are over 50 loose files that need to be pushed to the exit. So these are all kinds of loose appointments that all come from the archive of the NCG and the NAM that we have to go through. So there are all kinds of things to solve. I am also concerned, with priority, with the new approach. The new approach must start. The old approach went on, but that's tough. The new approach must start. I particularly see hesitation in this new approach. People say: we just don't believe that the money is available, because it never was; the money of the NAM was always a problem. I think it's there, but I'll have to bring that up with conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u311	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u312	We really need to get on with the new approach. We have to start. The P50 houses need to be visited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u313	So municipalities are going to make plans of approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u314	They made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u315	They made it. They can communicate with the residents for a long time what their plans are for their congregation. That's not limited to three months. The municipalities can work with the P50 houses. They can start tomorrow. The money's available. This is what the Minister says today in favour of these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u316	I cannot control those three months, because I do not know what commitments there will be in three months' time. What we have said is that we want to get going first to see how fast it is going and make planning more and more precise. We have also said that we do not want to record years ahead, creating a reservoir. In the old situation, people who had been inspected three years ago had still not heard anything. We don't want that anymore. We want a short time between the inclusion and the advice and the start of the work. That's what we've committed ourselves to. But that does mean that you have to be able to understand how that process is going. As far as I'm concerned, we could start, as I see it. But once again, I also hear comments from the region, including in my area, so that is what we want to go for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u317	I think that perhaps we can help the Minister by just going to talk about this subject once every two months in a committee debate, so that we can all keep the pressure on it. I think it's wonderful that the minister and the municipalities are going to see which bumps to clean up. I suggested a kind of troika. I don't care how it goes, but make sure it's solved and we have a feedback every two months in this house. Let all the inhabitants and municipalities allow things to come to us if it seems that this has not yet come down to the minister's ministry in a good way, because I do not think that anyone can accept this anymore. We all want the momentum. I hear that's what the Minister wants. He's serious, I can tell from his answer. That is a good thing for me, but I would like to know how much capacity that capacity is. I hear from municipalities that capacity is decreasing compared to last year. Well, at least you'll never be able to make an acceleration, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u318	I hear from the NCG that he's ready to start recording the new approach. I also hear that there are still wishes and demands in terms of resident guidance and so on. No, not everything's all right, but we're ready to start recording.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u319	Does the Minister agree with the CDA that the capacity should at least be the same as last year? Otherwise, by definition, we'll reheat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u320	I think we should have enough capacity to do this quickly. If that's more, it's more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u321	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u322	Is the Minister prepared to make that clear to the Chamber for that next AO on 31 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u323	I'm afraid to say that completely. Um... I am afraid to admit that, but it is clear that by then we must be able to clarify where we stand. Mrs Mulder's wish to talk about this every now and then is her wish. I don't need much incentive, I say. So I don't know if she's helping me. It is up to her to exercise democratic control as she wishes. I'm not intervening in that. I'm just busy making sure we can start now. So are the regional directors. We need to see if there's anything sticking out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u324	Finalizing, Mrs. Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u325	Does the Minister have the opportunity to provide an insight into this before that AO or during that AO? 'Cause I want to keep the pressure on it. If I hear from the region that there is too little capacity, that should not be the problem that does not create this reinforcement. Then I have one other point. I hate to say it, but we have batches. Those batches are full of people. Those people already have reinforcements at home. What's wrong with that? Because I think it's really weird that they didn't start off with the 1.467 last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u326	No, with the 1,467 they started much earlier. That's basically what happens. Are you okay? No, but it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u327	But then I would like to get updates from that too, because it just isn't going to happen fast enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u328	Perhaps I should answer Mrs Mulder's question by answering a question from Mr Van der Lee. He asks: do we have a clear understanding of where we stand? I don't think that's been the case at all. We have previously seen very detailed reports from the NCG in the old multiannual programme. I have to say that, depending on how I asked, sometimes I got different numbers. So there was a lot to do, but at least there is a need for normal quarterly reports in which the Chamber can check what happens. We need to be able to put that off against SodM's desire to do so in six or seven years. But of course there is a desire to do the P50 houses much earlier. So I think it's useful that society and the Chamber get an insight into where we stand with the P50 houses, the P90 houses and so on, as far as I'm concerned, just back in a quarter rhythm. That's important. That's what it's been suspended from lately. It's necessary. That is also a wish of Mrs Mulder but also of Mr Van der Lee. What did he call it? An indicator. I'd like to call it a whole dashboard; just a proper report of where we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u329	Good. Then I'll go to Mr. Nijboer. Short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u330	Even I find it pretty hard to follow, you know, with P50, P90. You've got backup. You've got damage cases. You have the neighborhood approach, which is also budgeted for, but it's not quite clear how that works. It remains the intention that villages like Krewerd and Overschild together will look at questions like: how do we put that village back on top, together with the municipality? How do we make these houses safer? And if there's any damage, we'll fix it at the same time. That has always been the starting point of what the region wanted and what the minister wanted. Or is that being called into question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u331	There's nothing on the slope, because it's never changed. The starting point is safety. Whatever is necessary for safety must be done. If nothing is necessary for safety, it does not mean that nothing is needed for the whole social structure or urban quality. But then that of other budgets, which are also available, must be done. That's up to the region. We can combine those things, too. That is the work done by Mr Sienot. The starting point is safety. We have a promise to redeem for safety, and we haven't fulfilled it so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u332	The problem is that the people themselves still do not know whether their house is safe, because there are no such inspections yet. They will spend years wondering what will happen to their village. In the meantime, they don't even know how many houses are not safe, how much budget there is for that and which part needs to be demolished. And there are also all people with damage. This is a bit of a dead end, isn't it? You can't limit it to three, four houses, and others have damage, and others are fine. How are these villages supposed to move on? There's no clarity, is there? Towns don't know how much money they're getting to put that neighborhood on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u333	We had a situation in which there was large-scale demolition and it was very logical to combine urban and village renewal with new construction. The situation we are looking at before the new operation is, of course, much more common, single reinforcement is needed. You can also combine this with things like sustainability. But that's more at the level of the individual home. You can also decide to combine this with urban renewal, but that is less far-reaching that it was probably earlier, when there was actually demolition. We have a safety call, and it's a priority in this exercise. We also have a social task. This is much more looser than before and can be determined much more independently. There are ample funds available for this. It is up to municipalities, with the support of the Empire, to make the effort. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u334	Mr. Nijboer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u335	It is quite unclear to me how that will happen. There are people with damage: old damage, new damage, upcoming damage. There are people who need to strengthen. And there are municipalities that want something with their territory and their village. How does that fit in terms of budget, timing and counters? I can't get a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u336	Suppose a fortification is needed on a certain house. For example, steel frames or corner irons must be incorporated into them. The connections need to be strengthened. This can in itself be independent of urban or village renewal. I would say that there are large budgets, including for urban or village renewal, and it is up to the region to decide on how to use them. I think there's a lot to do. It runs, the budgets are spacious, and under the leadership of the provincial delegates that program takes shape. It can finance all kinds of projects, including urban and village renewal, including social issues, including economic development and sustainability. Those things can be done. That's what plans are being made for. There are all kinds of ambitions, whether it's one or the other village. These are choices that are of course ultimate in the region and in which the Empire is helpful to add other budgets. It's just something that can be planned. But that doesn't depend on corners in homes. That doesn't have to be connected. One doesn't have to wait for the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u337	I've got a little bit of a dilemma here. I hear a lot of calls here to report very accurately, quickly and often to the Chamber. I get the feeling it's gonna be a little micromanagement. Of course, I'd also like to know exactly what's going on. But what I'm very afraid of is that in this way you're going to use all the capacity you need for the execution to inform the Chamber, for example. Does the Minister agree with me that we can make that commitment much better in the implementation rather than just reporting to us? It's gonna take all the time in there. Does the Minister agree with me when I say: do something simple to us, but please not with huge reports, big things and so on? Then that implementation organisation will never run; it will only be trying to satisfy us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u338	Micromanagement wouldn't be my hobby. But, and now I'm taking a break for Mrs Mulder, if I was Mrs Mulder, I'm not, but if I was her, I'd like to have a look at how safety is progressing. So I would like to know how many P50 houses have now been included, how many of them have started construction or reinforcement, and how many have been completed. I'd like to know the same thing for the P90. Those are only six numbers so far, but they are very crucial. I can also imagine that, according to SodM, we are putting that at the speed with which it should reasonably be. Maybe it'll be 12 numbers. I am afraid of further multiplications in this debate, but I think it is appropriate for the Chamber to understand to what extent we are fulfilling the security promises. In the past, we drove a huge crooked skate, didn't we? Well, we didn't pick up on any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u339	If it's that simple, I agree. But we shouldn't make it much harder than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u340	Then you've made your point. One more question, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u341	Mr President, I can only ask one more question from you, so I hope, of course, for a very clear answer from the Minister. For example, we know that the computer model of the NAM can show that one part of a two-under-one house is safe and the other part is not. Actually, I'd like to know very simply what's going to be leading. Is that a municipal plan where they say, "Oh, we feel on our clogs that that house is completely unsafe?" Or do you say, "I'm gonna stick to that model and then the municipality gets to do something?" What is it, a or b? Is it the computer model of the NAM or the municipal plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u342	No, it's not that black and white. The computer model has a number of plausible outcomes as well as some improper outcomes. Over the past six months, efforts have been made to correct the inappropriate results. We have also said that it is updated every year. Each year, therefore, more inappropriate outcomes will be corrected, so that there will just be an increasingly reliable explanation, not of what should happen to those houses, but of what is a logical order to do a recording. Then the other thing is that this list can grow naturally, but cannot shrink. Once your house is on the list for a recording, it cannot disappear because of further insights of the list. That makes people particularly insecure. But it may be that houses are added, because further insights show that other houses are also unsafe. And we have said that I have just mentioned that there should also be a possibility for people to request a recording if they feel unsafe. It doesn't come all the way in front of the queue, but eventually it is answered. So there's nothing black and white. I know of regional plans that say: we all have P50s, but for reasons of logistics it is awkward, because there are just a few P90s in between and we should skip them now and do it again later. I can see why it makes sense to take it with you because that's what construction logistics requires. That's just what we've been talking about. It's not black and white. It should not be completely black, because if we are going to do things that do not serve safety, then the weather is not right. But that's up to SodM and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u343	In fact, I would suggest that you go to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u344	I'm gonna try. I still have a few questions. I've had most of it, but I've had Mr. Van der Lee...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u345	Before you go any further. You have been there for more than two hours, more than an hour and a half only for interruptions and about half an hour for your own contribution. So I really want to make the proposal that you deal with all the questions in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u346	Do all the questions in one go. I'd be happy to. Mr Van der Lee asks me whether it would be a good idea for residents to have a permanent business manager, whether it is damage or strengthening. I'm gonna check that out. The question is so operational that I have to go back with it, so I promise him to look into it. The idea of a building depot has indeed been seen. That turned out to be quite complicated, because then private and public funds are together. As you know, public funds and their use and use are subject to more demands and controls than private money. So that turned out to be pretty complicated. You should also be able to see that the depot is being used for the safety it is intended for. It turned out to be complicated. I am trying to get Mr Sienot out of my sight, because I like to look at the questioner. However, it has now been suggested that within batch 1588, in which all these funds come together, we should work with something similar. I don't have any absolute clarity about that yet. This is being looked at and I can report to Mr Van der Lee on this later. Mr Van der Lee says that large consumers have major problems. I don't know. The largest consumers are forced to do so by law. That's just the way it is. That's very unpleasant, but it's gonna happen. We have to live with that and they have to live with it. The rest doesn't appear to be necessary with urgency. That's not because we let the reins be celebrated, but because it came at the same time as the nitrogen factory. It's not really necessary then. You'd rather they spend the money for the switch to high-caloric gas on sustainability. To what extent do they do that? If they are industrial parties, we have a separate channel for that, called the climate agreement. But there can no longer be any question about the large consumers. That bill is due for consultation in February. The legislative amendment should actually enter into force on 1-1-2020. Then it has to be done. Mr Nijboer asked why I did not fully accept the recommendations of the agricultural table. I'm not saying I don't, but I've been able to read them cold and I haven't been able to study them yet. I'm always afraid I'm gonna take over when they're executable. I'm gonna have to let you know. More than once, in this dossier, lightly embraced things that were subsequently rendered unenforceable. In any case, I am very positive about it. Mrs Akerboom asked what guarantee I can give that in four years gas extraction will go to 12 bcm. Well, I'd like to say to Mrs Akerboom that my ambitions are slightly higher. The recent letter, in which we see that we are well on schedule, talks about a level somewhere between zero and four in four years, not twelve. We're considerably more ambitious. There are no guarantees in this field, but ambitions are more than what Mrs Akerboom is asking me about. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the implementation of the motion on children. The GGD has taken all kinds of measures specifically aimed at children in the earthquake area. The GGD is spoken to them and also offers a listening ear. The GGD prevents problems and also maps them in time. That's prevention and early warning. Further research has also been carried out, which explicitly focuses on the impact of earthquake problems on children. In this context, the Groningen security region has developed and brings this to the attention of schools. There is no doubt that the last word has not yet been said on this subject. Mrs Dik-Faber's agro-stop shop is actually part of the Munniksma Committee's recommendations. I am sympathetic to that, but a final judgment has to wait a little longer. I also need to be clear about the €7,000 per house. If there is a home that needs to be strengthened, all the reinforcement money should just come from NAM and NCG. That's where the backup money has to come from. That €7,000 is meant to achieve on top of that own ambitions with the house. That's one case at most that I know has been different. In doing so, the building ambitions went far beyond what was needed for safety. That was in batch 1588. That is where all the money has been scraped up to give people a new home or a new corporation home, but that was not necessary for security. The regular spending of the €7,000 is really not meant for safety. That's something on top of it. This money is there to make people feel that at least in one area they are getting a little better. Otherwise, it's completely zero surgery. Then Mrs Mulder asked me if privacy is an obstacle in the cooperation between the TCMG and the NCG. It doesn't seem to be. Of course, public authorities, including the TCMG, must comply with the privacy laws, but the general regulation and the Decision on mining damages in Groningen seem to allow that information to be exchanged. So there was also contact yesterday between these two parties about this cooperation. This should also have been discussed. I have just outlined the state of play with regard to the old damage. We need to make sure that the arbitrator can finish that well this year. I made a commitment to Mrs Beckerman. It is possible that the Independent Counselor and the Ombudsman may have a different role in a new system or become involved in something, but as long as that is not clear, they will simply continue to do their job. I also received the Independent Councilman the other day. We have also discussed that there may be other arrangements in the future than they are now. The Independent Councilman, of course, was about the private domain. In the meantime, things are public. So things don't make any sense. But it was a very helpful step for some 200 people. So we have to be careful about throwing something away if we're not sure we have something new. That embedding needs to be done carefully. We don't just go rücksichtslos. I thank Mrs Mulder for her suggestion of the... well, what do we call it? The committee? No, she had a much prettier word for it. Well... Mr Sienot's question is whether the municipality can get started if the NAM disputes the costs. Now the municipality doesn't have to work; the NCG has to work. We just have to help people fortify their homes. The municipality should not be confronted with this. But it is not up to the NAM to question things either. That's the nature of the contract. We have been negotiating on this for a long time, but once the security judgments are on the table, a simple payment instruction is enough to secure that money. There is no review by the NAM anymore, as there used to be with each individual home. Then we have the questions of Mrs Yeşilgöz. Where are we with the reinforcement of monuments? Damage to monuments sometimes involves very complex cases. Licence applications are also sometimes required. They really take more time; that is no different. You don't just do license applications. And, of course, in terms of safety, we have also said that we must respect the monumental nature. As a result, individual reinforcements could also require more time, because more planning is needed. That doesn't go out of the catalogue. The rest should be out of the catalog, but not this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u347	No, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I see you want to interrupt, but I want the Minister to answer all the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u348	There is one very important question from Mrs Yeşilgöz, who even made me somewhat unscrupulous, but which I do think is very important. She actually says: can't these P50 cases get to work themselves? I get that. I get that you say: I can make myself dependent on a municipal plan or on Jantje, Pietje or Klaasje, but I have a P50 house and I need a security judgment; I want a recording and I want something to happen next. That's very legitimate, because in the end people are in charge of their own home. But I'm going to discuss this for a while, because if everything is mixed up, it's not always helpful either. Nor is it true that one person in the street can request a new sewer; the rest must go. There are these aspects. And I also have room to give to the local steering committees and the municipalities, who also have desires that may conflict with this. I think it's a very reasonable request. On the other hand, I hope that she will find it reasonable that I should really discuss this with my partners in the region. Then Mr Kops asks if I would have gone to Groningen without that debate. On average, I come to Groningen without a debate. By the way, if Mrs Mulder gets her way, that is no longer the case, because then there is always a debate. But, of course, I have slowed down, because in the last two months I have been working on the climate agreement so much loved by Mr Kops. I've got Urgenda on my plate now, too. So I've been too little. I found that very necessary in the new year. Further questions have been raised. Mr Stoffer says that there is too little money, too many models and too much influence from the NAM. I hope I was able to convince him that it is at least my conviction that the money should not be a problem, that the influence of the NAM on the new operation is zero and that the models only serve to prioritize and the security statement is determined by experts, by people who know something about it. Then I guess I answered all the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u349	Thank you. One short question from Mrs Mulder, a really short one. I've given my own room for interruptions. I'm trying to stop us from repeating things again. Has there been a question left, Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u350	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In my contribution I mentioned that one of the inhabitants said: it is pure Kafka here in Groningen. That was Mr Jansen. I think he's one of the owners of Heft's 200 homes in Eigen Hand. He's waiting for him to move on. And not just him; I also got signals from others inside. The question is: can the Minister answer the question in the short term when the houses are going to be arrested? According to him and others everything is just ready and can be started. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u351	It's about Heft in Own Hand. It's 54 addresses. I understand the funding would be arranged. I understand that the recording and the assessment have been completed. I understand that the reinforcement recommendations are in place. I understand the reinforcements have been communicated with the residents. I understand that 28 addresses are planned for the implementation in 2019, that 13 addresses have already been started and that 13 addresses are also valid for the completion or purchase by the NAM, which I think is different from being "ready'. That's what information is useful to me. But I can imagine that, given Mrs Mulder's concern, this is a little light-hearted and that I will return to the AO she meant. Then we'll know in the latest version what's going on with Heft in Eigen Hand. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u352	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u353	I would like to ask the Minister one more question. With regard to the removal of obstacles, would he like to look at the role that the Safe Living Centre is playing at the moment in going through reinforcement budgets with the dust comb? I hear complaints about that. It's associated with the NAM. That's not so crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u354	No, that's not so crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u355	I do not think it would be useful if this centre were to look at concrete budget reinforcements in this way, because that would only give us misery and no acceleration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u356	I'll take that with me in the search for what it's still waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u357	Thank you. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u358	Mr. Chairman. This is almost the end of another parliamentary debate. I find it unsatisfactory, especially when it comes to what is leading the reinforcement: municipal plans or such a failing NAM computer model. I find it unsatisfactory to hear the Minister say that he knows nothing about the old damage and that there is such a delay. I want to file three motions, maybe four, so I'm gonna read fast. The first is about an independent institution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many of the victims are trapped in a bureaucratic moloch with many counters, committees and agencies;]] [[calls on the government to set up a single public and independent Institute for Mining Damage to:]] [[a consistent assessment and resolution of damage and enhancement;]] [[determining at the individual level whether a property complies with the safety standards;]] [[and where the injured can also apply for (psychic) support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Akerboom, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u359	This is a motion from the entire opposition, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the strengthening of unsafe housing is far too slow;]] [[noting that many inspections have already been carried out and municipalities have or make plans for reinforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[confirm that local implementation plans of municipalities will be leading;]] [[ensure, as a matter of urgency, adequate implementation capacity and financial resources associated with local plans;]] [[make financial resources available through pre-financing in a fund and subsequently recover them from the NAM;]] [[declare that the reinforcement of already inspected homes can start in 2019;]] [[to have confidence and to speak out in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 17,500 claims are currently still open at the TCMG;]] [[noting that people with old damages are still waiting for rulings from arbitrators and judges;]] [[Whereas the current pace of processing may take years to complete;]] [[calls on the Government to make a general apology for all outstanding damages (at TCMG and NAM), as well as to grant all new damages automatically and to have contractors repaired immediately and also to compensate for any person who can prove in writing that an expert has assessed the damage, and only if these damages exceed the €10,000 to be inspected and assessed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Akerboom, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Kops and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-554]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-555]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u360	And then I don't have a second left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u361	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I'm gonna read my motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still significant delays in the settlement of claims in Groningen;]] [[Whereas the removal of this delay will be possible with a faster procedure whereby damage experts do not have to go by for a recording and residents will be given more control;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the possibility of allowing the injured parties to opt for a scheme allowing a contractor to submit offers for repairs directly to the TCMG and to check them only on a sample basis;]] [[and invites the Government to enable the TCMG to initiate such procedures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently no indicator for the progress of the reinforcement approach in Groningen;]] [[Whereas in this way the victims, the region and the parliament cannot properly assess whether sufficient progress is being made in the strengthening approach;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an indicator allowing monitoring of progress in the reinforcement approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate had previously agreed to consider the idea of a building depot for owners of buildings in the earthquake area;]] [[noting that this idea has not been included in the new approach;]] [[calls on the Government to review the instrument of a building depot concretely for batch 1588 and to report on it to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Akerboom, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Stoffer, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Sienot and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-556]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Lee, Agnes Mulder, Nijboer, Sienot, Beckerman, Akerboom, Van Rooijen, Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Stoffer and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-557]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Akerboom, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Sienot and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-558]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u363	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for all affected parties and other interested parties to learn lessons from the extraction of gas and the resulting damage, particularly in Groningen;]] [[Whereas market participants, public authorities and supervisors are still able to learn a great deal about both the proper assessment of potential mining risks and the proper handling of actual risks;]] [[Notes that a parliamentary survey on gas extraction in Groningen is desirable;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make the necessary preparations in this calendar year so that the interviews can start from the beginning of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-559]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the end of the debate, I say it at home: I do not really trust that this approach to the problems in Groningen will work out. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm scared, and I expect we'll be here in a year and no flute yet in Groningen. This is because a model is being used, a technocratic approach is being adopted, damage and recovery are not being combined, and the strengthening and vision of the future of the villages are not being properly regulated either. That's what I'm worried about. Unfortunately, we will talk about it more often here. I have one main motion, supported by the full opposition. Not all parties are present. I hope to receive support from the coalition next Tuesday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Municipal Councils, the Gas Council and the Groninger Soil Movement have written a compelling letter containing five opinions;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to take full and full account of these five opinions and to implement them;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Akerboom, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Kops, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-560]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u365	Mr. Chairman. I have another motion on a specific problem. We have initiated the reversal of the burden of proof from the Chamber, but there are all kinds of legal problems with it. This threatens to turn against the people who want to make the most use of it. I'm asking the Minister to take care of that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reversal of the burden of proof is laid down by law in order to provide better protection for Groningers;]] [[Whereas questions on the legal presumption of evidence are before the Supreme Court for a preliminary ruling;]] [[Whereas this will mean that the victims will have to wait much longer for a solution, while their homes or businesses are declining rapidly;]] [[calls on the Minister to make efforts to clarify these people as quickly as possible so that they do not have to wait for years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-561]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas truth finding is essential in order to restore confidence for the Groningen people;]] [[Whereas it is necessary for the House of Representatives to have an in-depth understanding of how the gas building has functioned since 1963, how it has dealt with the risks and security of citizens, how political decision-making has taken place, and what the influence and interests of private companies are;]] [[Whereas this understanding is necessary, inter alia, to take the appropriate measures for the future and to draw lessons from it for the future;]] [[Considers that a parliamentary survey should not result in delays in repairing or delaying the risk of earthquakes and mining damage;]] [[points out that a parliamentary survey on gas extraction in Groningen should be carried out;]] [[calls on the Presidium to submit proposals on the design and form of the study for this calendar year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 191 of Groningen's 200 major consumers of natural gas seem to have emerged in order to have to get rid of Groningen's natural gas;]] [[noting that this is necessary both in the interests of the safety of the people of Groningen and in the interests of the climate;]] [[calls on the Government to require these large-scale users to go from the Groningen natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents are also around small gasfields with damage to their homes and with feelings of insecurity;]] [[calls on the government to grant residents around small gas extraction fields the same rights as those affected by the Groningen gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Akerboom and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-562]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-563]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Akerboom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents have to deal with intangible damage, damage to houses and a reinforcement notice;]] [[noting that these routes run along different routes, while it is agreed with the region that residents can reach a single point of contact,]] [[Whereas in the implementation of the project, opportunities for interconnection remain between (complex) damage handling and reinforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, where possible, a coherent assessment and resolution of damage and reinforcement by one Institute of Mining Damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Beckerman and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-565]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u368	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of agricultural buildings, there are often complex damage associated with asbestos remodelling and necessary changes in management;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties, to set up an agri-business window,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Beckerman and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-566]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u369	Mr President, I shall begin with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister of EZK is responsible for security;]] [[Whereas houses in existing batches for which reinforcement advice has been sent should be strengthened immediately;]] [[Whereas the most unsafe homes in Groningen (the P50 group) should be inspected as soon as possible and provided with reinforcement advice so that the inhabitants of these homes will live as safely as residents of the rest of the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the reinforcement operation is not yet running fast enough;]] [[noting that each municipality draws up its own local plan of approach and communicates about it with the residents;]] [[Calls on the Government to agree with the relevant municipalities before 1 February to inform the residents in February, together with the NCG, so that concrete arrangements are made with the residents of the houses concerned, as with the Fazanthof, on the planning of the admission and assessment of their homes;]] [[calls on the Government, if this is not sufficiently rapid, not to hesitate to use its powers from its responsibility for security to ensure that agreements with residents on the admission of the property are started as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with the TCMG a follow-up to the pilot for repair by contractors in kind,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-567]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot, Mr Stoffer, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u370	Mr. Chairman. I welcome a number of commitments made by the Minister to return to the mining industry on 30 January. I used to talk about January 31st every time, but I apologize for that: it is, dear people, on January 30th. I really think that we should be on top of it from the Chamber, because if homes are just not safe and it is a bit shady where it is, then I want it to be completely clear, at least in this house. I'm gonna do the best I can for that. Mr. Chairman. Then the damage you can have because your house has become less valuable. I have made a suggestion to the Minister to take a look at the DSB case. There's a good look at how you can meet everyone who's suffered the damage in a good way. Perhaps this is also a way of resolving this case. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u371	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u372	Thank you, Madam President. We've heard a lot from the Minister, lots of good noises. But yes, now result! I think that has also become very clear in this debate. I hope we will see the statement that 2019 will be the year of truth for damage and reinforcement become reality. I would like to make two motions to contribute to this, in addition to all the good work that has already been done. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many homes in Groningen with damage are still open to the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen (TCMG);]] [[noting that the confidence of the Groningen people is affected by the slow handling and that there is a great desire to clarify the handling of damages;]] [[Whereas there is already a pilot with experience in simplifying claims reports, such as the use of photographs as evidence of damage and automatic assignment;]] [[calls on the government to take concrete acceleration measures, and to inform the Court of Justice about them before the May recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-569]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u373	Then my second motion. We have talked about it several times in this debate: the municipalities want clarity about financing the reinforcement operation, but also within the wider area of area development. They want an insight into the budget there is. So please, inform them about that, so aldermen can get to work. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas municipalities wish to combine, where possible, regional development with reinforcement; noting that NAM pays the costs of reinforcement and therefore municipalities have little understanding of the size of the costs of the reinforcement; Whereas it may be desirable for municipalities to understand the costs of strengthening so that regional development budgets can be used as effectively as possible; calls on the Government to inform municipalities about the costs associated with the reinforcement so as to understand the overall resources available to areas for strengthening and territorial development, thus allowing them to combine them as long as this does not lead to delays in achieving security, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 570 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I'll start the motions as well. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the most unsafe housing in Groningen (the P50 group) should be strengthened as soon as possible;]] [[noting that the owners of P50 homes without the consent of the appropriate authority may not at this time begin to strengthen their homes;]] [[Whereas the reinforcement operation can be accelerated and the direction of Groningers on the reinforcement operation can be improved if Groningers covered by the P50 group are allowed to apply for their own admission, so that reinforcement can start as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government to consult with municipalities that people in the P50 group may apply for admission even before there have been local plans or communications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently more than 17,500 claims to the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage in Groningen;]] [[noting that the handling of these claims will continue for years at the current rate;]] [[Whereas this rate of damage handling creates uncertainty and uncertainty for Groningers;]] [[Whereas this uncertainty and uncertainty for Groningers should be removed by giving them more direction and freedom of choice in the handling of damages;]] [[noting that the region has submitted several measures to this end;]] [[calls on the government to follow the advice of the region by ensuring that contractors can directly repair damage below €10,000;]] [[invites the Government to carry out an inspection and assessment only if the damage exceeds €10,000 or if there is another reason for doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-571]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u375	In order to further encourage and motivate the Minister to address possible obstacles and delays when it comes to licence applications and the like in the case of monuments, one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents living in a quake-damaged monument indicate that they are against bureaucracy and rules that prevent the timely reinforcement of special buildings;]] [[noting that the Law on General Environmental Law (Wabo) does not prevent an effective restoration of a monument;]] [[noting that small municipalities do not always have the expertise or strength to inspect a monument based on the Wabo within a short period of time and to grant a permit for repair work;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up, wherever possible, the strengthening of monuments and to provide them to municipalities in need of legal and substantive support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Rooijen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-573]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u376	Mr. Chairman. This was yet another debate. What exactly is the conclusion? Despite the Minister's many words and despite a few promises, the conclusion is that we are simply moving on in the old way. Bounced was the so-called 06 number reasoning of the minister He actually says: we can't put a line below 17,500 still outstanding damages cases, because in that package there are damages cases that actually only consist of an 06 number. Despite the Minister's commitment on this point, I would like to say something about it. You can't keep those who do have a complete claim for damages, including an amount, people who have been waiting for years, waiting because there are other people with a claim that isn't complete. That's just not fair. The Minister has always said, including in previous AO's, that he is working closely with the region. Earlier we talked about the National Programme Groningen. The PVV had some criticism of this, but each time the Minister said in response: we are going to do it this way, because these are the wishes of the region and we are simply implementing them. Does the Minister still support those words? 'Cause that's the way it should be right now. The letter from the region contains five concrete opinions, ideas, more precisely five wishes of the region. And they're really good ideas, too. So take over and execute, I'd say. Mr Nijboer has quite rightly tabled a motion on this point. Finally, I do not like to say it often and I do not like to say it, but many other good motions have been tabled. I'm not filing any motions that have already been filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u377	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u378	Mr. Chairman. First, a motion. It reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Noting that following the Bishop c.s. motion for a resolution, (Roompiece 33529, No. 518) have been made by the so-called agricultural table recommendations for a programmed approach to the specific and complex problems in the agricultural sector due to earthquake damage and soil degradation caused by gas extraction; calls on the Government to take over the recommendations of the agricultural table and the open research questions as far as possible and to give them follow-up as soon as possible, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 574 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u379	Mr. Chairman. Then there's one more thing I want to correct. I have perhaps just referred to Mrs Mulder's cases in an interruption, giving the impression that I was reacting to her interruption. That wasn't my intention, because I came forward earlier. If that's misconception, I apologize. I tried to say that we should, above all, use as much implementation capacity as possible for implementation and not for, for example, the parliamentary survey or very large reports. Every man brings himself. I come from an execution organization and have often noticed that, when it was exciting there, the people who had to work were asked by Jan and alleman to make reports and the like. There's my dilemma. I, too, would like to be well informed as a Member of Parliament, like all of us, but my point is that we should leave the people who need to work to work. That's what I'm trying to do. Once again, I apologize if I have given the wrong impression to Mrs Mulder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u380	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u381	Mr. Chairman. I have co-signed a number of motions and, as the last spokesman, do not table any motions, like Mr Kops. The next thing I want to know is what's left of me. How is it possible that the builder variant did not arrive on the table until this late stage? We are now talking about a 400-case trial. Why didn't this get on the table much sooner? In this variant, an amount is automatically presented through the contractor by means of a tender on which advance payments would have been possible. I didn't happen to call it the pgb-drama once again before the historiography. At the time, the Chamber said: and now it's over, it's just being paid out, because care, the pgb budget, has to be arranged. We got the supplements after that. That was a large amount of money, and the Chamber said the following. "Supplements must be paid. If, on the basis of new income data, this is not entirely correct, it will be reduced." That's what's gonna happen. It is incomprehensible to me that we have been sinking into the mud for years now, through very complex processes, so precise and securely. Perhaps the Minister would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u382	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. This was the second term of office. 22 motions have been tabled, of which 2 are addressed to the Bureau. I therefore suspend the sitting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u383	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u384	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take the motions. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 553 does require a great deal and absolutely, because a "coherent assessment and handling of damage and reinforcement" is useful where it is useful, but is generally not useful at all. I described to Mrs Mulder a case that she had presented, in which it should and will go better. At this level, I cannot judge this Chamber. This motion also calls for an individual assessment of whether a property complies with safety standards. But we're going to work with a standard approach. This is too much for that approach. I'm afraid I have to discourage this motion. In the motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 554 is a number of things that I would like to support, but some other things are not. Pre-financing is not generally useful. It is also requested to state that the reinforcement of already inspected houses can start in 2019, but it is not at all said that already inspected houses need to be strengthened at all. It has also not been said that they should be discussed in 2019, because there may be much more urgent housing. That's what we need to find out. So I cannot commit to this, because otherwise I might even be in conflict with SodM, which is testing me. So I'm afraid I'm going to have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 555, about a general's pardon. I think I have sufficiently explained that I do not think it is feasible, so unfortunately I must also advise against it. Then the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u385	Before you continue, there is an interruption. Brief question, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u386	I still find it very painful that the Minister said in the debate: I do not know at all what is going on with these old damages. I have received a vague undertaking on this: I am going to see what is going on with it. Would the Minister at least go so far as to really think about such a general pardon, in which the government apologizes and adds the money for those who are injured for whom the amount is already known? Does he at least want to think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u387	I have outlined that the cases of the NAM, the old cases, are now with the arbitrator. I have undertaken to check whether the NAM generally complies with the rulings of the arbitrator. I'm gonna find out, and until then, I don't see any reason, even in the old cases, for a general's pardon. But we're gonna see if the NAM's gonna stick to that. We should know that this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u388	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u389	Of course, you should have known by now. In March I already asked questions about this with Mr Nijboer, who is next to me. I will also ask new parliamentary questions, because I know a lot of files where that does not happen. I find it particularly painful that you do not know from these people, who have been fighting for so long, that the arbitrator, the NAM, is slowing down, slowing down, slowing down. I find that very painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u390	I'll find out. That was my promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u391	Mr. Nijboer, it's all about the motions. The first signatory can say something about that, unless it's important...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u392	Mr. Chairman. It was almost the main point of the debate, but I am never difficult to find out in whom motions have been tabled and Mrs Beckerman has raised this matter before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u393	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u394	This is about the general's pardon. That is really one of the main themes of the debate and I do not understand the Minister's response. He has just said in the debate that he can't do the 06-numbers. I didn't understand that, but he's gonna look into it for the rest and he's gonna be positive about it, and he's gonna say, "I'm not gonna do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u395	I've said I'm going to see where possibilities are, but a general motion to proceed now to a general pardon I can't support at all until I've looked at that. I have promised that I will see if there are significant quantities of people who have provided a very complete file and that we can say that it can be accelerated. I am in favour of this, but a general pardon is general and that is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u396	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u397	Okay. People like to know what they're up to. There are 17,500 or 18,000 people. They'll know what they've filed. Is the Minister now saying that the people who just have a valuation, who have been to an expert and who have a file are basically pardoned by a general? You're in favour of that. Is that what's gonna happen? Because that's a little different than speeding up, and you just said that. That's really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u398	I've said I'm going to see if there are significant quantities of people who have submitted a ready-made file and then I'm going to discuss with the TCMG if there's any acceleration there. That is the acceleration that Mr Nijboer is aiming for. But I'm not gonna leave a motion of censure Chamber in which a general is asked to pardon at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u399	Mr. Nijboer, it's a motion you're also under, and I can't give everyone the floor on a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u400	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I will deal with it very reluctantly. Finally. The request wasn't a gear. The request was a clean slate for the matters before us. I understand this judgment on that motion. I don't need that motion at all. I am concerned about what is happening and I really recommend the Minister to do so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u401	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u402	... for those cases where that is possible, and there are thousands of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u403	I have promised to look into this, because Mr Nijboer and I are both interested in a speedy outcome of these cases. I have therefore promised to look at this and to discuss it with the TCMG, which is also about legal certainty and equality of law. I am clear about this motion, but I am also clear about the commitment. Mr Van der Lee's motion for a resolution 556 is actually about the builder's approach. This motion I leave to judge Chamber, because it is in line with the discussion. Thank you for that. An indicator. I just renamed the indicator into a dashboard. If I can read "indicator" as "dashboard," I think it's a good motion. One is a little small, but I can see that progress is being made. In the past that clarity was there, but by now that has gotten a bit out of hand. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 557 to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 558 over the building depot. I have indicated that I think there are possibilities in the batch 1588. I therefore feel obliged to give this motion judgment Chamber, because it is in line with my own suggestion. Then there are the motions on part No. 559 and 562. They do not concern me; I just want to say something about them in general. It is entirely up to the Court to determine the means of investigation and control by which it carries out its parliamentary duties. I'm not gonna take a second to talk about that. I'll look forward to all that with respect. But if there is an important use of policy or implementation capacity over the next one and a half years, I will see it as problematic for progress. Moreover, it is further up to the Chamber to use its resources. I'm not saying anything about the motions on part number one. 559 and 562, other than these comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u404	I have one question. The Minister specifically says: one and a half years. Could he give a little more explanation as to why he mentions this term? Does it mean that he can live with a parliamentary survey that starts in the second half of 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u405	It's a prophecy. I think I have to make a very important appeal to capacity for a year and a half. Before then, I do not wish to comment on the desirability of such instruments. I'm in favour of monitoring progress. I leave the remaining use of these instruments to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u406	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u407	But I'm very afraid of the flow of paper. Then the motion to part No. Mr Nijboer asked the government to adopt the five opinions in full. There can be no question of this at this stage, but I am following the letter to an important extent. However, I must advise against this motion. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 561, which calls on the Minister to make an effort to clarify matters for the people as quickly as possible. I would have liked that very much, because I think that clarity is very important. I understand Mr Nijboer's question, but I cannot address the Supreme Court at a speed. I find that very complicated. But I would have been very happy to do this. Legal strutting, while people have to wait, I'm stuck in my throat. My sympathy lies entirely with the authors of this motion, but I do not feel entitled to force the Supreme Court to urgent procedure. I therefore feel obliged, with some regret, to discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 563.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u408	The motion in part No. 562.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u409	No, I just said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u410	Yeah, that's right. It's just been there. Mr Nijboer on the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u411	Would it help if it says: speaks out? So that the Chamber will give a ruling. That is a suggestion from Mr Van der Lee, and I would like to take it up. Nor is it necessarily addressed to the Supreme Court itself. It's more like speeding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u412	Yes, but then it relieves me of the obligation to give an opinion on that at all. Then you may serve my interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u413	Okay, the motion in part No. 563.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u414	Then the motion to part No. 563. It is not in the interests of the safety of the Groningers to have the other large industrial consumers switched because, by the time the nitrogen plant is completed, they are using artificial Groninger gas, but not really Groninger gas. You can have all kinds of views about it in the context of the climate or whatever. It is also right that the nine large consumers should be obliged, but it is not right that the rest should make a contribution, because this can be collected by the nitrogen plant. So I'm not gonna make you do that either. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 563. Then the motion to part No. 564, in which the government is asked to grant residents around small gas extraction fields the same rights as those affected by the Groningen gas extraction. I'm having a hard time with that. There are small fields that may be just 0.1.0 of the Groningen field in terms of content. I really do not think that this is a question of equal treatment. We have included a very special clause for the Groningen field. That's what I thought was right. It is an initiative of the Chamber, but I fully support it. But the tie-up with other small fields is really not on my mind. I therefore advise against this motion. We really need to see a different order size at the Groninger Field. The motion in part No. 565 calls for a coherent assessment where possible. Yeah, you can't argue with that. This motion-Dik-Faber c.s. let me judge you, Room. The next motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 566 is about an agro-stop shop. That is one of the recommendations that I have yet to examine. It sounds sympathetic and sensible, but I would like to ask the author if she is prepared to hold the motion so that I can respond more informed at a later stage and we can have the discussion on the basis of the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u415	Of course, I hope for a positive outcome, but I will continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u416	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (33529, No. 566). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u417	Thank you. The motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 567 is very far-reaching. The second request does not mention the region and the consultation with the region, but I see the intention of this motion. I tend to leave her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u418	Okay. 568.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u419	No. 567 is that. Then the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 568. It's about a pilot damage recovery by contractors in kind. I'll talk to the TCMG about that. Yeah, I'll leave that judgment room. The motion-Sienot c.s. in piece No. 569 is about concrete acceleration measures. That was an important port of the debate. Thank you to Mr Sienot. I'll leave that judgment room. The motion-Sienot c.s. in piece No. 570 asks the government to inform municipalities about the costs associated with the reinforcement. Yeah, as far as that's a priori possible, because it costs what it costs. You may not always know that in advance, but as far as that insight is concerned, I'd like to do that. Of course, it is primarily up to the region itself to use resources for territorial development from the national programme or other budgets, but if we can come to an integrated understanding with each other and it would be enlightening for the Chamber, then I would like to work for that. That means I'm leaving this judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u420	First of all, thank you for the judgment. I didn't mention two signatories. Of course, that's not good. That's Mrs Carla Dik-Faber and Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u421	Then this motion will be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u422	Then there is the Yeşilgöz-Zegerius c.s. motion. in piece No. 571. I would like to thank Mrs Yeşilgöz for calling on me to at least consult with municipalities. I think that's appropriate. I'll do that. I'll leave the motion judgment room, but I feel motivated to start that conversation. The Yeşilgöz-Zegerius c.s. motion in piece No. 572 the government only requests an inspection and so on. I think this contractor treatment is very promising. It is something I have to discuss with the TCMG and she has the last word on because she has the responsibility. I don't want to agree to that either until I've had that conversation. In this case, I would also like to ask Mrs Yeşilgöz if she is prepared to hold the motion, so that I can first have that discussion and assess its desirability, clarity and feasibility. Otherwise, I'm weeding other people's gardens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u423	I wouldn't want the minister to be working in other people's gardens, but I wanted to show you, and I think many with me, when I look at all those who have signed up, that the signal is very important. I can imagine that we are going to arrest her, but I would very much like the Minister to return to how we are going to shape this letter as concretely as possible. Then the signal to TCMG and other parties is clear, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u424	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u425	At the request of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, I propose her motion (33529, No. 572). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u426	The Yesilgöz-Zegerius c.s. motion in piece No. 573 is about the reinforcement of monuments. I don't feel able to speed it up, in all honesty. I imagine it would be possible for damage to be repaired. In this form, I feel obliged to discourage the motion, because I do not see any possibility of doing so. But I think that the owners of monuments, as well as the municipalities, would want to accelerate in the context of damage recovery. Anyway, I'll give that to the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u427	I said in my speech that I am very pragmatic: as long as it all accelerates, both damage and reinforcement. Would it help if we modified the motion accordingly, so that at least it's about damage? The Minister may then come back at some point to the point of strengthening the Chamber. The question then is whether there is any possibility of speeding up this process, which may also be a matter for an application for authorisation, of laws and regulations that we ourselves are discussing. The point is that we do pay attention to that. If this motion helps with damage, we can transform it this way. I would like to receive a letter on what we could do with reinforcement, in which the Minister may need the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u428	Let me include that in the communication to the Chamber, for example in the AO of the 30th. Moreover, in the case of damage recovery, legal matters play a less role and are more about substantive support. I would therefore like to give that to the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u429	If I understand correctly, this motion will be changed. Then what is the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u430	With these changes, I will leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. Mr Stoffer calls to me in the motion for a resolution on item No. 574 in a very sympathetic way in order to take the recommendations of the agricultural table very seriously and to look favourably at them. I will, so I will leave that motion to the House's discretion. Mr Van Rooijen asks why we are only now talking about the builder's variant. I thought the port of my speech was right that we first did a small pilot and then scaled it up to a few hundred, and that it was already the intention to scale it up to a variant that is available to a wider audience of dupeds. Then I expect a speeding effect. Anyway, it remains that we are both positive about the builder's route. Then I'm through with the questions and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u431	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate. I thank the Minister, I also thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-6.u432	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the people in the public gallery, the Groningen people who have travelled to this debate. I would also like to thank the Groningen people who are not here, but I am sure they have followed this debate from the beginning to the present. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m.
