ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the VAO's own contributions to health care. First of all, I would like to welcome the two directors, the MPs and the entire public in the public gallery. I just got the message that at least one very sick person is listening tonight, who sometimes doesn't understand how their own contribution is going. I wonder if that will be clarified in a moment. This person is waiting with sorrow for clarity and Mr Raemakers of D66 may be the first to give it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many parents do not appear to know that dental visits are free for their child;]] [[Whereas the Minister has undertaken to engage with health insurers in actively informing individual parents whose child is not going to the dentist;]] [[Whereas the Minister has undertaken to raise awareness of free dental visits among children in the ongoing communication actions during the transition season;]] [[Whereas more is needed in the short term to ensure that all children get a good start;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a separate national campaign on the importance of good oral care for children and the fact that dental visits for children up to 18 years of age are free of charge, and to inform the Chamber thereof in the promised letter before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary at all times to prevent vulnerable women from using contraception or the desired form of contraception because of financial difficulties, given the importance of good sexual health for each woman;]] [[noting that there is still insufficient picture of the size of this vulnerable group and to what extent they can be (financially) and be helped;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[investigate how many women are already helped by the project Now Not Pregnant;]] [[monitor the size of the entire target group of Now Not Pregnant and how many of them are reached and subsequently helped by this project;]] [[examine the measures necessary to provide for contraception for vulnerable women under the principle of self-determination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-258]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	In the context of 'equal monks, equal hoods', I would like to ask Mr Raemakers what is going on with vulnerable men.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	That's a good question. I also think we should talk about that again. I find it an interesting question to ask the cabinet as well. What is known and can be investigated? I think it's a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	You felt addressed. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that Mr Raemakers now also seems to recognise that free contraception for men and women could be a good thing. I think it's a good thing and he might think it's a good thing. I think I asked 25 or 30 questions, including the amount of money involved in contraception for women and men, in the different contraceptives. Will Mr Raemakers support me in my call to ask the ministers, please, to ensure that those answers are given before the budget is discussed, because it is sometimes time-consuming at VWS?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	This is a very creative way to ask the cabinet. You can respond to it, Mr. Ramaekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	We're struggling a little bit with the same thing. We would like to receive more information and figures on this. That's why we're filing this motion. We didn't set a deadline, because we'd rather it was sorted out properly. The budgetary procedure is, of course, very soon, so I think the cabinet itself should answer the 25 questions you have asked, because I cannot answer them in front of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	I understand. But it's a good thing we share the same bet. I hope to hear from the cabinet how likely they think it is. It would be very nice if you could.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you. Then I give the floor... No. Mrs Ploumen, it's your turn. Mr Ramaekers spoke on behalf of D66 and Mrs Ploumen does so on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In general, we have exchanged views with ministers on a number of forms of own contribution. I'm sure you just heard it from my input. In any case, I am going to put some of them back on the table in the budget debate. For now, I have a motion on vitamin D. This is part of this subject because vitamin D is no longer in the package and people have to pay for it themselves. That raises the cost of caring for people. And now, in a recent publication, it has also become clear that it is cheaply expensive. It turns out that it costs the government millions more now that vitamin D is out of the package. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the removal of vitamin D from the basic package has led to an increase in healthcare costs of EUR 5 million;]] [[considers that vitamin D should be reimbursed for the prevention or treatment of diseases;]] [[calls on the government to re-integrate the most widely used vitamin D tablets into the basic package as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-259]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. I will also endorse the motion which Mr Van der Staaij will be tabling on behalf of both of us shortly. It is, of course, also about the cost of care that comes from households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women do not have to claim their own risk when placing a spiral by the general practitioner, but when placing them by the midwife;]] [[Whereas, in some cases, it is preferable for women to have a spiral placed by the midwife;]] [[Whereas keeping out of its own risk of placing the spiral by obstetricians may contribute to a more balanced division of labour within the first line;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of keeping the spiral placed by the midwife outside its own risk and to inform the Chamber of the general consultation on package management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It happens sometimes that people who look at these debates say: isn't it a bit of a weird debate, in which people all make motions when the government hasn't spoken at all before. It is good to know, then, that we have already had a wide-ranging debate on the subject of the accumulation of healthcare costs and that we are now completing this by tabling motions on points where we have particular wishes. I myself would like to table a motion concerning the accumulation of healthcare costs, sometimes per household. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government is taking various measures to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs;]] [[Whereas it is important not only to pay attention to the accumulation of healthcare costs per person but also to the accumulation of costs per household;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, on the basis of a number of concrete cases, the extent to which a simple and effective method of countering the accumulation of care costs at household level can be used, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-261]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very sympathetic motion by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Ploumen. I have a question. You're putting it all the way to the cabinet now. I think there are also a lot of data and information from the health insurance companies. Do you think they should play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yeah, sure. I'm not saying the government should do all this. You can read "to promote that there is a view on situations where there is a build-up of care costs at household level and to see if there are still opportunities to do something about it." I can imagine that sometimes there is a certain lack of knowledge about the arrangements and then it may be on the way of the municipality or the Empire to do something about it. Sometimes, in situations like this, it may also be a matter of drawing the attention of municipalities to options under minimum policy. Sometimes you could take another critical look at arrangements. There should therefore be no major change in the system. You need to see if you can gently turn a number of buttons so that you can fight the problem of accumulation of care costs at household level even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u20	Then I understand the motion a little better, because then it is mainly intended for the non-use of resources to reduce or to redistribute these costs of care. So that's the idea. I had the impression that the movement behind this motion was that it should also become more insightful for households.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u21	Following the debate in advance, we asked via Facebook: report situations where you run into a pile-up of healthcare costs. At that time I noticed that a number of examples hinted that the accumulation of care costs at family level can still be very heavy. That was actually the reason, without saying that we have Columbus' egg and without telling us what to do. It's more: picture again, not through a deep scientific research of four years, but by zooming in on a number of cases, what is going on and what can be done to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion. The debate that we have had and where both ministers have also responded a great deal leaves one small thing open from time to time. That is a bit along the lines of what Mr Van der Staaij also said. We still get questions about the multitude of accounts that the health insurance companies send and which are often not clear, because there is one's own risk and there is one's own contribution to care. It is not as clear for everyone what is to be paid for. By the way, a lot also goes digital, and that is sometimes unheard of. That is why the question on our part is: can the Minister, in consultation with the health insurance companies, clarify by means of an overview when the risk is used and when there is a contribution of its own, so that it is more comprehensible to the people. That is what I was trying to untangle in the conversation I just had with Mr Van der Staaij: what is the intention behind the motion? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the debate, we made a big point of the healthcare allowance. Unfortunately, thousands, hundreds of thousands of Dutch people do not use the healthcare allowance, although they are entitled to it. That is, of course, a very shame, because it is precisely the group of people who are entitled to care allowance that should also receive this care allowance. With all these rising care costs, they can often use them very well. To meet these people, I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tens of millions of euros of unused healthcare payments have remained on the shelf in recent years;]] [[noting that 14% of low income does not apply for care allowance;]] [[Whereas the care allowance for this group of people is an indispensable contribution to the payment of the cost of care;]] [[calls on the government to consider ways of compensating this group of people for the care allowance that has been lost,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-262]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u26	I am looking at the last speaker, but I see that Mrs Sazias is not going to speak. I'm gonna take a look at the ruler, too. I think we should suspend for five minutes. Then you have all the motions and you can prepare and discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u27	I'd like to give the Minister the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr President, we have divided the proceedings. I would like to begin by responding to the motion in part No. 257, about a national campaign on dental visits for 18-minners. We also exchanged this in the debate. I said at that time that I was opposed to a large, general public campaign, because I expected more from a set of measures. As far as I am concerned, this set includes the fact that we are going to visit consultancies again, because there may be a refresher there. Maybe you should also organize customized activities for low-SES groups; sorry for the jargon word. Maybe you should do something with the group of young adult 18-miners, so the teenagers. So I'm looking for what the petitioner wants from a national campaign. If that's a nationwide public campaign, I'd advise against the motion. However, if I may read the motion in such a way that it is a set of activities to give extra attention to that vulnerable group which, like Mr Raemakers, others have put their finger on in the debate, I am happy to do so. With that reading, I'd like to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u29	In general consultation, I was mainly concerned that the Minister said: I want to include this in the ongoing communication actions during the transition season. Of course, that's not enough, because you can only switch from health insurance once a year. So you would only pay attention to this phenomenon. If the Minister can also take that element, I can go further in his interpretation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u30	We are now doing something different than what we have exchanged in the AA. Then I said, shall we take it with us in the campaign of the insurance industry's changing season? It's still a good idea to do that there. But I have talked about a set of measures, which is wider than one moment. I therefore believe that Mr Raemakers and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u31	I see him nodding. I understand you're giving the motion judgment room. Mrs Ploumen has another question about this, I see. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u32	Very briefly, yes. It is good that the petitioner now understands what the Minister is asking of him in terms of how to understand the motion, but I do not really understand it. The motion calls for a national campaign, and the minister says I'm not gonna do that, but I'm gonna do other things. It's a little unclear what exactly. I just want to make a proper assessment of whether we should vote for or against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u33	Well, now that I've given the motion judgment chamber, I also advise you to think positively about it. I have mentioned a number of activities, for example the attention of consultancies. There are a number of consultancies that indicate very precise and very structural to young parents: go to the dentist with your child and do so systematically. I think that is very good, but I have to be careful, because that may not be the usual practice throughout the country. So I want to make a point of this. That's one. Two. We talked about vulnerable groups in which children suffer because they don't go to the dentist. So I'm looking. I think we should think of something, especially for the low-SES group, that is, the people with lower socio-economic status. That is how I just put it in the direction of Mr Raemakers; again, forgive me for saying the word. What could you do specifically for that group? That's a second chunk. And the third piece concerns the teenagers. For small children, you should address the parents, but maybe you can address the group yourself with teenagers. I can think of something for that, too. I have given you these three examples. The motion calls for a letter to be made before the end of the year. So all these activities have not yet been completed, but then I have thought, even more precisely than I have done now, about this issue of dental care for young people who are not going to the dentist now. We want this to become a habit in this group too. So I will be a little more precise than I am now, indicating what measures they are. So that's not at one time, but at several times. And it's not a general public campaign, it's a set of measures to organize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u34	Thank you. And it comes in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u35	Okay, so if we follow your judgment and vote in favour, that means that at the end of the year we'll get a letter with a number of activities that you're going to do to make sure people know that their children can go to the dentist for free. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u36	Sure, sure. That's my purpose, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u37	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u38	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u39	The motion in part No. 258 is for colleague De Jonge. The motion in part No. 259 is about vitamin D and is submitted by the PvdA fraction. It says: the cost of care increases, because vitamin D is prescribed much more often. In itself, I find it very strange that a heavier dose of vitamin D is prescribed much more often. The request is therefore now to put that vitamin D back in the basic package as soon as possible. I didn't mean to. So I'm deceiving the motion. But the underlying point why the heavier dose of vitamin D is prescribed or given by both prescribers and pharmacists much more often is, on its own, not explainable. The health situation of Dutch people is not such, is it? Or would there possibly be another reason? That's what I want to talk to prescribers and proposers about. I therefore advise against the motion, but I do see the underlying point that makes the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u41	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't have any questions. I would like to support Mrs Ploumen in this matter and answer the Minister's question as to why so much more is being prescribed. This has to do with recent insights, namely that especially people who get older often lack vitamin D.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u42	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u43	That could be an explanation, but it is strange that over a very short period of time the change in the package has taken place this year, namely in a few months' time, is already visible? In general, these effects are not very visible. So I want to talk to the prescribers and the pharmacists about this. That's what I'm gonna do. Hopefully, I'll do that sometime this quarter, but I'll stick to dissuading the motion. But the point is addressed, I think. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 260 is about the possibilities for placing the spiral by keeping the midwife out of his own risk, to be examined further and to inform the Chamber about it in the general consultation Package Management package management which is thus next June. You know I've got zwei Seelen in einer Brust. On the one hand, I believe that what we have in the package should remain in it. We have to be very strict on that, because expanding is always much easier than shrinking. See the previous topic. On the other hand, you can also imagine that a woman might like to have the spiral placed by an obstetrician. There's still some brains to grind about. We should follow the idea of informing the Chamber about this next spring at the AO Package Management. This motion can therefore be judged by Chamber. Then I come to a question from Mr Slootweg of the CDA. Can the Minister, in consultation with insurers, clarify when using one's own risk or contribution? This is not a motion, it's a question. In fact, I would like to talk to Mr Slootweg about this. As Mr Slootweg knows, it is already up to an insurer to make clear to the insured persons what is covered by their own risk or contribution; both of them! Mr Slootweg says that we must make another appeal to the insurers. I have regular consultations with the insurers and I am happy to make a point of this. But I need it a little more specific. I therefore propose that I have a discussion with Mr Slootweg, whether or not in this debate. It's okay to go later. If we figure out what we're asking the insurance companies to do, I'm gonna make a point of it. I think it's very useful in their booth. In fact, I believe that insurers are doing their best to inform the insured person about the use of their own risk and contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u44	We are getting a number of signals, and I also understand that the person in question is simply not being shown away: is this from my own risk or is this my own contribution? In the first place, my question is whether the Minister recognizes this. Or does he have the idea that there's never any signs of that? In any case, we can indicate a number of real individuals who simply do not see the forest through the trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u45	Shall I do so on the basis of the anonymised individual reactions that Mr Slootweg brought up? Honestly, they don't get dropped in my mailbox that often, but that doesn't change the case. If I can get some anonymised responses, I will discuss them in my consultation with the health insurance companies. I can make them weigh it. I'd like to be willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is the motion in part No. 262, in which the government is asked to look at the possibilities of compensating a certain group of people for care payments that have gone wrong. We also discussed this point in the AO. Then we said: let's wait for the ibo on this first, the interdepartmental policy research. That will appear in the spring of 2020 and then we can see how best to act. I think that you will be looking for measures to prevent non-use for the future and not so much for failing afterwards. So I advise against this motion. But also this is a subject that will certainly come back, but on the basis of that ibo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u48	That is precisely why I have not tabled a motion for the distant future on what should happen to the care allowance. On the contrary, I have consciously looked at what we can do for the group of people who miss out on their health care payments over the past year or this year, while, of course, the Tax Administration can see in principle which people are entitled to health care payments, who have not applied for them and to whom we could transfer them, because they are just entitled to them. Those people do not ask them for all kinds of good and less good reasons, even though they are entitled to them. I ask the Minister whether he would like to see whether it is possible to meet this group now, not in the future and not after all kinds of discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr Hijink is talking about a competence that the Tax Administration has yet to obtain and therefore does not yet have. So I can't organize that, and that's why I'm continuing to discourage this motion. But that does not mean that the subject is gone, because I want to see what measures we can take on the basis of that ibo. That seems a little far away and a little policy-making, but that is not it in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u50	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u51	This has nothing to do with each other. The consultation the Minister is referring to is far away. That will happen, but I am talking about the group of people who miss out on the care allowance this year, last year and perhaps also in the coming year. For that group, I want a solution. This concerns almost half a million people and tens of millions who remain on the shelf. I think that the cabinet should see how we can still make that group eligible for money that they are just entitled to. That is my question, and I do not think that reference to what is going to happen in the future is relevant. I'm talking about the group of people who are missing out on the care allowance right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u52	Then we're going to do another debate that we've already done. I have exchanged in the debate that we must first see why people do not apply for the healthcare allowance. And hopefully that's from that ibo. It could be that there's a group of people who don't know and then we need to fix it. But perhaps there is also a group of people who do not consider this supplement necessary for all kinds of administrative reasons and the expected small amount. Perhaps this is the case in a number of cases, and that is why I think there is a need for a little more. In addition, the point is that the Tax Administration does not have a "just look-in" option. But if we debate this on the basis of that ibo, we might be able to organise it. I have now said "if" three times and we really have some work to do. I will continue to dissuade this motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr President, I am through my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u55	Then I'll look at your colleague. Mrs Ploumen, you had another question open? I'll let the other minister get back up. Go ahead. Short! What question did you have left open?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u56	I'd like to repeat it one more time. We have tabled a number of questions about contraception and its use. We have done so well for the technical questions for the budget in order to give the Minister a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u57	These are the 25 questions you gave to the cabinet through Mr Raemakers. Can you answer that, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u58	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u59	We're gonna do the best we can for that. I'd like that. In general, we're really doing our stinking best. I think we've had 1,100 or 1,200 questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u60	1,100 I hear from the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u61	So it goes on in one go. At least I hope so. I'm going to do my best, Mr. Chairman, because I understand the need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u62	I appreciate it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I've got the motions on the pieces Nos. 258 and 261. The motion in part No. 258 asks to examine how many women are already being helped by the project Not Pregnant, to monitor the size of the whole target group, and to see what additional measures are possible to provide vulnerable women with contraception under the principle of self-determination. I would like to emphasise that this is very in line with the Probable Start programme and within that project Not Pregnant. We try to remove the threshold for contraception. That can be a financial threshold, but very often it is also all kinds of other thresholds. I would like to carry out that part of the motion and come back to it in the progress report of the Kansrijke Start programme. We expect to send them to the Chamber in December. The last request I understand, because the target group of the project Now Not Pregnant is very specific. There is much more to this target group than just financial problems. There are many multi-problem problems, such as addiction and psychological vulnerability; of all kinds. And, of course, there is another group, which we have in mind, for example, when it comes to taking measures to prevent repeated abortions, a group which you might say should not want to have a financial threshold that would result in women becoming more often than once in the abortion clinic. That is what we discussed in the Chamber. I can also tell you that we have some ideas to deal with. When we're done with that, I'm afraid to tell you, but I hope for the end of the year. If I may understand your motion in this way, namely that it is not about the breadth of the package of measures or whatever, but that it is really about a group of very vulnerable women, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u65	I hear the Minister naming a number of things he's doing. It is not entirely clear to me whether this motion adds anything to what the Minister is already doing in those programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u66	I understand this motion in such a way that they ask me, the cabinet, to investigate how many women have been helped. We would have put that in the picture anyway. But she also asks to investigate the size of the entire target group. That's an indicative explanation. At the moment we do not have that sharp, but I will try to map it as best I can. I'll do that in the progress report. That's the second indent. The third indent asks what measures are needed to provide women with contraception under the principle of self-determination. We have not yet sent any additional measures to the Chamber for this purpose. We have had a debate with each other in the context of a more medical-ethical matter: how can we reduce the number of abortions, in particular the number of repeated abortions? Of the 30,000 abortions, there are about 10,000 in which women do not enter an abortion clinic for the first time. I'm in intensive conversation with abortion clinics about that. They indicate that this is partly due to contraception and partly because of the financial situation of the women involved. Part of it concerns the extent to which it is possible to obtain compensation for the placement of contraception in an abortion clinic. Part of it is the contraception itself, the cost of the spiral. I'm talking to abortion clinics about how to put in place a targeted set of measures. I believe that this motion calls for specific measures to be taken to this end. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u67	However, there is one more question for you, Mrs. Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u68	I don't understand it so well. It says: to monitor the size of the target group. You're working on that project. Then it says, "How many of them are reached." I don't think that's a very logical sentence construction. Besides, I'm wondering the following. In my view, the Minister is now moving a little further towards the first institution of the Kansrijke Start project. I see him now making all kinds of moves towards the fact that there is already talk with women in abortion clinics to prevent them from coming back again. That sounds a little familiar to me. I can imagine that in a year's time, D66 would think: I wouldn't have wanted to do what I had to do. My specific question to the Minister is what he is really going to do now. 'Cause he's actually saying, we're doing everything that's going on in that project. Then this motion is unnecessary. I think the deal in this room is you're gonna betray her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u69	I didn't qualify her as "unneeded." You yourself, of course, are concerned with your appreciation of the motions that are before you. That's one. Two is that I did not judge the motion so much as linguistically, but according to what is expected of us when it was adopted. In that case, the first thing that is asked is simply in line with the project Now Not Pregnant as we have deployed it, namely to investigate how many women are being helped. This is a question of asking out municipalities that are already part of this project, how many women are being helped. That's totally in line. The second is that we should then monitor the overall size of the target group. I cannot give an indication of this at the moment, so that would be a supplementary question to what we are doing already. The third indent of the motion asks what additional measures are needed to provide for the contraception of vulnerable women. My response to this is to assume that D66 does not rely on package measures. Otherwise, we would be having another discussion when the cabinet has already made it clear that he is not concerned with package measures. In addition, I understand that Mrs Laan said that, in addition to the target group of the Now Not Pregnant project, there are other women who, because of financial concerns, are difficult to achieve contraception. Then it's another trajectory we're going through. This is also in line with an earlier debate we had here in the Chamber. Let me give you the example of the conversation we are having with abortion clinics at the moment. If we want to reduce the number of repeated abortions, something for which there was broad support in the Chamber, then we will have to do a number of extra things for that. I have just outlined a number of ideas for this. However, I have not yet worked it out and I have not finished it in the near future either. So I do need some time, but I assume that that might be an answer that is in line with D66's question. I'd like to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u70	I have a bit of a feeling that we are having a whole debate on the occasion of a VAO. Finally, on this point, I give the floor to Mr Raemakers, briefly to say whether he can live with this. Otherwise, I am going to refer you to a new debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u71	Certainly I can live with the Minister's interpretation. The VVD just said explicitly that we will not be back here in a year's time and will regret D66. But what we want with these measures is the following. For D66 the right to abortion and that a woman in it has freedom of choice are very important. That freedom of choice must also apply to contraception. So if there are women now who do not use or are unable to use contraception for financial or other reasons, then that problem must be removed. That is also freedom of choice. This might be an explanation for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u72	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u73	It is really about that principle of freedom of choice, something that every woman and every man in the Netherlands should have. That's what D66 is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u75	Then we get to the motion in part no. 261. That is a motion which, of course, is extremely sympathetic. Of course, you should always find that from a motion, but this "sympathy" starts with the signing of the motion. It is quite exotic: both Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Ploumen are signatories to the motion. Since this motion calls for an investigation into the extent to which the accumulation of care costs at household level can be countered, I would first like to point out that we have already taken a series of measures, precisely to reduce the accumulation of care costs at home level. An important measure, for example, concerns subscription rates. Only one subscription rate is paid per household, even though both have to do with costs there. Another example is to halve the concept of wealth and income under the Long-Term Care Act. We have also reduced the percentage of income that counts. There too, there is only one charge per household under the Long-Term Care Act. Think also of Maximising the pharmaceutical reimbursement system at €250 and freezing the own risk at €385. I would just like to say that I think we are doing a great deal to prevent the accumulation of healthcare costs. At the same time, you and we come across cases of people telling us that they still experience a massive accumulation of care costs, especially when they use multiple laws of care. You have provided examples of this and Mrs Ellemeet has provided examples of this. I think it's good to start talking on the basis of these examples. Let us then see if there is anything left to settle in the way we deal with it, regardless of what municipalities can do at all in terms of individual income support. Is there anything on the system side to prevent the accumulation of healthcare costs in these exceptional cases? I want to do that, but I am not going to say in advance that it is easy to find a solution, because the examples you mention are also very inherent in the system we have chosen with each other. If we deviate from that, it will have many other negative consequences, sometimes in implementation and sometimes in other laws and regulations, which will make it problematic for other people. In short, I understand the intention and I have heard your examples very well. I would like to have a conversation with them and I would like to let you know if, on the basis of that conversation, we will come up with any ideas that could help in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u76	Thank you. I would like to respond because the Minister is beginning to sum up what is already happening. We recognize that with this motion. Hence the word "further" is in the operative part. A number of measures have now been taken, but now zoom in on a number of concrete situations and see if, despite all these measures, there are any buttons that can be turned on. That's the idea. So this actually supports what the Minister has already indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u77	Then that's what we're gonna do. So we leave the verdict to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u78	This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-02-tweedekamer-7.u79	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. After the suspension, we will proceed with the amendment of the Health Insurance Act.
