ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 12 and 13 December 2019. I welcome the Prime Minister and give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u2	On Thursday and Friday, the European Heads of Government meet again for a European summit. That is, of course, a bit crazy, because on the same Thursday there will be elections in the United Kingdom and it may become clear how the Brexit will proceed. This item is not officially on the agenda, but there is, of course, another agenda for Friday. On that Day, the outcome will be clear. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what does he expect? Are there any different scenarios? In the past, we have seen a lot of words being spoken, for example by the French Prime Minister. Then he had a firm judgment. A guarantee can never be given completely, but can we guarantee that this Friday the thirteenth will not be dealt with by a "Friday the thirteenth" scenario and that there will be no accidents? That would be a shame. It seems as if there is not so much on the agenda and it is still a bit waiting for what the European Commission is going to do. A new President of the European Council has just taken office. But we do know that there is a lot of talk about climate. It's called a so-called "Green Deal." I don't really have that much faith that that's actually going to be a "green deal." When it comes to climate action, it is mainly about subsidies for Shell, it is about CO storage opportunities for Shell. We see this happening in the Netherlands, but we actually see that happening a bit in the European Union. And these climate measures are not really about good public transport, which everyone can benefit from, and about well isolating houses, which everyone can benefit from. We have heard that Timmermans and Von der Leyen are therefore the President of the European Commission and the Commissioner for Climate Change have 100 billion available for this so-called Green Deal. I actually want to agree with the Prime Minister that we will spend that money on what is good for people and for all of us, and not good for big companies. So I don't want that CO storage under the bottom. In the Netherlands this has been stranded because of fierce protests by the population. Don't force it through the European Commission and the European Union. Let us not put a lot of money into biomass again, as we do here in the Netherlands. 11 billion will be invested in biomass next year, while we know that it will not produce a CO reduction, and zero zero euro cents will be allocated for the sustainability of social housing. That's not good. You don't go to climate justice that way. That way you don't work on support, which is very much needed. So can the Prime Minister promise me that if that amount is available, it is the commitment of the Netherlands that that money does not go to fossil and old industry, but that it goes to what is good for all of us, so to homes, public transport, renewable energy? That must be the agenda. Mr. Chairman. In a kind of frame, a bit in the air, France and Germany often make a lot of proposals. Those countries always try to find each other a bit again. They are now proposing a two-year, two-year conference to discuss the future of the European Union. But we have assumed here in the Chamber that we do not always want this 'ever closer union'. That's the position of the Chamber. I ask the Prime Minister to convey that sound of the Chamber when it comes to the conference on the future of Europe. There are also countries that say: we can work well together, but it does not have to go to a political federal union. And I get that feeling when I read that proposal from France and Germany. If this is mentioned, will the Prime Minister at least give this as the position of parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u3	I have two questions for Mrs Leijten. I just heard her say that the money should be spent on the renovation of houses and on public transport. But does Mrs Leijten think that the SP would be a task for the European Union to arrange good public transport in the Netherlands, or to instruct the Dutch to renovate their homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u4	I think, in the debate on the climate at all, that we should not instruct people to do anything, but that we should help them. 80% of the Dutch climate subsidies that end up in households reach the richest people. That's not a good climate policy, if you ask me. If they release that 100 billion, I think it should be in business that's good for all of us. Something can of course happen to international train connections. It should not be about, for example, CO2 storage underground. That discussion has ended, for example with us in Barendrecht. It was a wish of this government, but they have abandoned it. That should not be put back on the agenda through Timmermans' so-called Green Deal. That's what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u5	That's a pretty long story in response to a short question. But if I understand correctly, the SP finds the following. I'm talking about the moment there's money available. Then I will put 'available' in quotes, because of course we are simply paying for that, and it is the question whether that will be within or outside the budget. One: is the SP prepared to pay more for it and increase our contribution if that money is made available for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u6	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u7	The second is: I can actually hear you say that, at the moment it is there, it is a task for the European Union to regulate properly and to do something about the renovation of houses. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u8	I'm more interested in you thinking about what kind of policy you're making. I see 100 billion has been proposed. We also see in the appreciation of the European Council that they embrace it. If such a large amount becomes available, I believe that this should be made available for measures that can benefit everyone and that it should not go to the large polluting multinationals. At least that's my demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u10	I think we can do that. And no, I don't think there should be a bigger budget. Mr. Chairman. I had just arrived at the next agenda: that new budget for the next seven years. We are counted among the greedy four. I ask the Prime Minister not to be intimidated by that. After all, the plan is always written down by the people who say "more, more, more." They do so at a time when we know that about 400 billion of the current budget is simply left. They're not gonna get that published. So why "more, more, more"? If you then get new goals, such as for example a new Green Deal, then that must indeed be saved somewhere else, as far as the SP is concerned. That 1% remains that 1%. That is also an adopted motion of the SGP and the SP. I hope that the Prime Minister will use it to keep his back straight, because the plan that is now in place and the amounts we see now in Finland's proposal mean that we are going to pay 2.25 billion... or at least a lot more. That is a 30% increase in our budget. I don't think I can explain that. I know that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are firmly committed to this, but I really hope that will remain so. After all, we were also firmly committed to the 2020 budget. In doing so, we had to make a statement that we did not agree, but that extra money came and was spent more than was the proposal of the Council and also of the European Commission. Then you can see that the European Parliament is actually drawing it towards itself. I don't like that. Mr. Chairman. There has been a debate on how we deal with enlargement. We can see that France is actually saying: we want a renewed discussion on how to deal with countries that face the European Union, but which we want to embrace in a way other than by promising membership. I wonder what the position of the Dutch Government is in that discussion. I think that could be an opening in the struggle we have every time. We want to help countries to put their rule of law in order and to build civil society, but we do not want to automatically open those books to accession. I'm asking the Prime Minister to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u11	I'd like to go back to the size of the MFF. Mrs Leijten is right that the Chamber has given a ruling on this matter. Let's say you can get a better budget... by "better," I mean that there's more money going to modernise, modern things, and less to those old-fashioned agricultural subsidies and so on, and in exchange for that, would she like to think about something like that, not a Green Deal but a financial deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u12	No. I think that the 1% actually goes too much already. We can also see that there is a lot of stuff lying around. We see a lot of waste going on. I think that this kind of thing really undermines the basis for European cooperation, because people see that money is available for it but not for renovating their rental house. Those are also decisions that are being taken here. We do everything in our power to do so, and we often work well together. But I don't think that can be an automatic conclusion, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u14	Finally, Mr President. We talk a lot about the rule of law and the rule of law within the European Union. Now I have here a press release calling on Amnesty International Spain to release immediately two people convicted for nine years for demonstrating. Amnesty International reminds us that the right to demonstrate within the European Union is under pressure, even in countries where we do not expect it automatically. Shoot at demonstrators, lock up protesters for nine years; if that were to happen in Russia or Turkey, we would have big debates here. But we're just talking about Spain and France here! I would find it interesting to know if the Prime Minister sees the possibility of starting a discussion on the right to demonstrate. That is so essential. It's a fundamental right. It is clearly in the European Declaration of Human Rights. There are solid countries that are members of the European Union that are violating it. That's not something to look away from, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I do not believe it is on the agenda at the end of the week, but yesterday the Netherlands managed to obtain unanimity in the Foreign Affairs Council for a law on sanctions for human rights violators. I would like to begin by saying that my group is very pleased with that. The cabinet has worked very hard for this in the person of Minister Blok, as well as a number of people here in the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt has been committed to this from the beginning. D66 of course, Mr Sjoerdsma. I am not going to name all the names, but I think it is good to say that this is a success of Dutch diplomacy. We can also celebrate our successes, so to speak. Then I'll get to what's on the agenda. The goal of climate neutrality of the European Union in 2050 seems to be slowly but surely approaching as a unanimously supported objective. That is absolutely necessary in my opinion. The question is how, if I understand correctly, we can get countries that oppose it on board, such as Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic. I understand that these countries want more research, for example, and perhaps more money. I do not know exactly, but I think it is extremely important, also because of the fact that the Madrid conference is now, of course, about to be held, that European leaders will be able to reach unanimity on it by the end of the week. I know the Prime Minister as a great advocate of climate neutrality by 2050, so how does he intend to contribute to this? Mr. Chairman. It is almost always in that discussion about climate, and, in my opinion, sometimes even a little too much, about the objectives. What percentage by 2030: 40%, 50%, 55%? I think it would be good to take a closer look at the measures. Tomorrow I wanted to say 'next week', but tomorrow the European Commission is going to present the Green Deal, and a lot of things have been leaked about it. "The conversion of the European Union is total," I read this morning in a version of the document leaked through one of the newspapers: road pricing, shipping and air traffic which will have to pay more for their CO emissions, the clean steel plan, a CO levy at the border for external polluting products, a drastic reduction in pesticide use. If that's the right direction, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. Tomorrow's the deal, so we don't officially know him yet. When the Prime Minister of the week sits at the table with his colleagues, that deal is of course there, but in the meantime we can't question him about it anymore. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at what he now knows about the measures that will be proposed in the European Commission's Green Deal. Mr. Chairman. Mr Leijten, of course, also spoke about the Multiannual Financial Framework. The focus on the size of the MFF is, in my opinion, too limited. Look at what's happening. Compare the Finnish compromise proposal now before us, but agree with the Commission's original proposal. Then you can actually see how the game is played. The Finnish Presidency is reducing the budget towards what the Netherlands wants, for example, but at the same time the balance of expenditure is shifting in the wrong direction. The wrong way, Mr. Chairman! However, more towards agriculture and less towards priorities such as security, innovation and migration. We don't want that. The cabinet does not want that, and my group does not want that. But it's what's gonna happen. Apparently in real life there is some sort of exchange that we may not like but which seems to be taking place. It is not difficult to predict that this trend will increase if the budget, as the Netherlands wants, has to go further down compared to what the Commission and the Finnish Presidency are proposing. Is that how the Prime Minister sees it? Is he prepared to pay extra money if, in return, the budget contained a better representation of the Dutch priorities? That might be a very good deal. I'm curious to hear his answer. The WTO is also on the agenda. That is good, because it is very important for the Netherlands and for Europe, especially as regards its role as arbitrator in the event of trade disputes. So it is very good that it is on the agenda. This is because the US is blocking the appointment of new judges, lawyers, in the dispute panel, and thus paralysing the WTO. Now the Prime Minister said on several occasions, but not so long ago, in Buitenhof: "The American President Trump is absolutely right when he criticises those international institutions. He is right to say that things in the WTO are not good and he is making sure that these things are improved." The Prime Minister specifically mentioned that we in the WTO are poorly dealing with conflict resolution within the world trade system. Now the European leaders are going to put pressure on America, at least I hope, to get back from that miserable path, but then it is important that we know where our Prime Minister stands. Is he on Trump's side, who says that the WTO must work better, and that is particularly true of dispute resolution? Or is he on the side of the European Member States and the European Commission, saying: 'No, we must restore the WTO as soon as possible and restore that dispute resolution mechanism, otherwise we will act against our own interests'. Mr. Chairman. My last point concerns something which is not really on the agenda, but which I would like to bring to the attention of the Prime Minister. A cultural council must ensure that the theatres endorse the values of Orbán, I read yesterday in the newspaper about Hungary. There will be a new hearing on Hungary. There are the well-known issues on the agenda: independent justice, freedom of expression, academic freedom. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to bring this up, and perhaps it should be done at the European summit. Because you don't really know what you're reading: a cultural council has to make sure that theatres in Hungary only perform pieces that support the values of the incumbent head of state Orbán. That can't be true, can it? I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to do so wherever possible. If it is possible at the European summit this weekend, but if it is not possible, as soon as possible afterwards, because this can be done if it is right, and I am assuming that within the European Union it is not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. You're looking to see if you have any speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u18	Yeah, I got a few seconds. It's beautiful, isn't
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u19	You can do it. Unbelievable. I see you're surprised at yourself. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. Let's see if he's following your lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u20	Thank you. There's ten minutes on the clock, so that's enough time. It is also an important debate, now but of course also at the summit in two days' time. It is also at a historic moment: almost at the end of this decade, on the eve of a Brexit vote, a Brexit election that is incredibly exciting and could actually go the wrong way and also threaten to go. And now, of course, we have a new Commission, a Commission with a female chairman and a male-female relationship that is almost fifty-fifty. I am very pleased about that. That's very positive. I would like to say a few words about this Commission, and above all about the Commission's commitment. I would like to comment on the MFF, the European budget, and I would like to say something about the rule of law, particularly the situation in Malta. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the Commission's priorities. I believe that it has already been mentioned for me by both speakers: the New Green Deal. I would almost say that our hearts are beating with expectation. The messages are promising. It seems to be a solid package that will really achieve the objective of being climate neutral by 2050. Of course, we've had three sleepers in the last few years. Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic have always said that we do not want this to happen; we do not want this to happen. The first question I would like to put to the Prime Minister is: does he think that the hard objective of being climate neutral by 2050 will be achieved in the final declaration? I think that is a very important framework and also a kind of green edge around this Green Deal. It is, of course, necessary to establish this with each other in order to make the content of the Green Deal even more difficult if you agree with the objectives that need to be achieved. I'd like to get a reaction to that. So my question to the Prime Minister is: are we going to bring Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic with us now that it has really been over 12 years? I understood that the Prime Minister had also said something about traveling by train and that it would then be on coal. That's not true, of course. I believe that the Prime Minister himself has swallowed this with a smile, but it is true that the train is expensive in Europe. It's too expensive an alternative to flying. That's the problem we've been talking about more and more recently. The aim is, of course, that the Commission should make the train a serious alternative. I would like to see a commitment from the Netherlands on that. I'd like to get a reaction to that. What is the Prime Minister's approach to this? Mr. Chairman. The Commission's second priority is migration. We need a common and humane migration policy for the reception and distribution of refugees in and across Europe. The Commission is very active. I would like the Netherlands to be very constructive rather than constantly making tough demands that make any compromise difficult. In the meantime, several countries in the European Council, Germany, Greece, Italy and the Netherlands, are working on separate proposals. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is the role of the Netherlands in this dossier? We all have a very strong feeling that migration must be resolved at European level, but what role does the Netherlands play in this? What is the constructive attitude that we are going to adopt, I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. My third point concerns the geopolitical position of the European Union in the world. The President of the Commission has already said that the European Union really needs to play a stronger role on the world stage, with a stronger use of the block that is the European Union. Of course, you can do that in a number of ways. The first step that needs to be taken is the step taken yesterday thanks to Minister Blok, who worked extremely hard for this on the basis of a Dutch proposal from the House of Representatives. There will be a sanction regime, which will enable human rights violations to be effectively tackled. That's very positive. Compliments to the cabinet for their commitment. 'Cause it turned out to be really hard, but it just worked. That's beautiful. The second is, of course, the veto on foreign policy. I still think that the Netherlands should continue to press on, because that means that we will continue to shackle ourselves. The third is, of course, the EU military force, within NATO's framework. It is an extremely important step if we in Europe want to play a more serious role on geopolitical issues. The fourth point is everything related to technology. China and the United States are announcing ever-greater protectionist measures to shield their markets and make everything themselves, while the European Union is opening up the market and actually allowing a lot of suppliers, with great risks. Without demands, without trade and industrial policy and without its own technological industry, it is becoming increasingly difficult for Europe to maintain its position. So I ask the Prime Minister whether these priorities are also on his retina. I ask him whether he would like to strengthen these four points in relation to the geopolitical stance of Europe. Finally, the conference on the future. I am very curious to see what the planning and direction of this is going to be. What is the role of the Netherlands? What are we going to do to get Europeans to talk about the future of Europe, so that it is not just a small conversation between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, which actually results in little involvement? Mr. Chairman. Then there is my second point. This is about the European budget. I see Mr Van Ojik standing there. He flies a bit like a shadow over my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u21	Like a shadow?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u22	It is absolutely not my intention to cast a shadow over this story. I would like to go back to that point about the geopolitical attitude of the Commission. I think that is an important point. In my opinion, GroenLinks and D66 feel the same way on many points, perhaps not all. I would have thought that Mr Verhoeven would also talk about who is or is not part of the Union. The point of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u23	Enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u24	...the Western Balkans. We have talked about this many times here and said that it would be good if we could offer countries a perspective. Think of accession negotiations and so on. He doesn't mention that now, but maybe that's the fifth point. I can tell he thinks it's a really good idea. Then perhaps together we can see how we can turn that missed opportunity, which we have just left behind, into a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u25	I sometimes get to hear that I put in the same points very often and that sometimes people get a little tired when they listen to me and that they think: there you have Verhoeven again with his expansion point. So I thought I'd skip that now. But then again I fail Mr Van Ojik, who says: enlargement was not mentioned. I have been very clear about this enlargement. I think that we should have put the opportunity and the perspective first, especially when you see what the developments are now in those countries. We should have given them a chance to become part of the European continent and the European community of values instead of transferring them or at least having them approached and attracted by other spheres of influence in the world. But I believe that we, as GroenLinks and D66 together with the PvdA in the Chamber, have always said: choose from the perspective and not just say that these countries do not yet meet 100% of the requirements and standards; give them a chance to grow there, in an objective way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u26	Please continue. Don't look so invitingly at Mr Van Ojik, because then he thinks: I have to respond to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u27	I must, of course, be careful with my questions and my interruptions. Mr Verhoeven mentions how we have all behaved, with the PvdA. And a majority doesn't feel the same way. This is very much mentioned as one of the great missed opportunities for a more geopolitical Commission. It was not the Commission's fault, however, but a few Member States, including the Netherlands. The cabinet, of which D66 is a member, will also have to do something to make it right now, I would say. Maybe we'll both agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u28	Yeah, sure. I think I said last time in response to a similar question that I am incredibly committed to achieving this change of direction within the cabinet. I must say: within the coalition, because of course I have no influence on the cabinet; I only control that. But we are also dealing with that annoying majority in the House of Representatives. That majority consists of parties such as VVD, CDA, PVV and SP and keeps saying: we do not dare to allow those countries to grow objectively towards what we expect them to offer them the opportunity and hope that Europe can mean to them. I also think it is right that I should like to repeat those words by Mr Van Ojik. My party will continue to do its best to restore that opportunity wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u30	Another missed opportunity, we have not yet missed that opportunity, but we are threatening to miss it; Mr Van Ojik has already pointed out that the MFF is the MFF. This must be a good and modern MFF, which can effectively address the major cross-border issues. It must be a framework for a European Union that can act vigorously in the world. Here the tunnel vision of the Prime Minister, who says above all: chopping in the sand, hands on the brakes. With the economical four, he is pushing Europe against him in the armor. He actually says that it should only be about the maximum amount paid by the Netherlands. It's less and less about modernisation. I said that I understand that the Netherlands does not want to pay Brexit costs. I can understand forcing a discount. But the total plate only looks at the payment ceiling. Too little attention is being paid to modernisation and the transfer of money from the agricultural and cohesion funds to knowledge, to innovation and to defence. That threatens to be the missed opportunity of the coming years. This attitude means that the Netherlands loses its credit and reduces the chances of a modern EU budget, while an ambitious MFF is needed. The EU is worth investing in. We are indeed net profiters of the European Union, I say once. She gives us wealth and security. I call on the Prime Minister once again not to be obstinate and short-sighted about the payment, to sit on that ceiling, but to look much more closely at the EU's opportunities to tackle the major problems. I miss that bet now. For electoral reasons, it is attractive for the Prime Minister to say that we should not pay a penny more to Brussels. Mr Van Ojik said it very well: the strategy is not working. The Dutch strategy is a defeat strategy. We are now getting a proposal from the Finns, which is a step backwards for the Netherlands compared to the Commission proposal. Mr Van Ojik said that very well. That is exactly my analysis: we are not doing ourselves any kind of game just to make that contribution, without looking at the content and what is needed to give Europe a better position in the world, and therefore also in the Netherlands, and to have a better policy on these major issues. I call on the Prime Minister to do the right thing in the future. I keep hearing him say 'less money to Brussels'. I do not hear him say enough that we are fully committed to modernising and innovating. As a result, we lose the battle, we lose credit and we get a less budget than we would get with a different strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u31	Do you see Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u32	I see Mrs Leijten standing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u33	Okay, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u34	It is of course very nice that I can put my question to Mr Verhoeven of D66. I would have expected the chairman of the group, who has been widely announced in the media as the new colleague on European Affairs, but we also know that someone may have another obligation. So I am glad to be able to ask Mr Verhoeven the following question. This is, I think, the third debate in which you say to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Finance that there should be more-more-more to Brussels. But you voted in favour of a motion which said that we wanted the new multiannual budget to be preferably reduced compared to the current multiannual budget or at most to remain the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u35	We can always say that the budget must shrink, that we once voted in favour of a certain motion and how it all worked out, but I see how the discussion is going. As I have said a number of times over a number of months, and perhaps already a year, to Mrs Leijten, Mr Mulder, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Maeijer. In this way, with this attitude, the Netherlands is not going to bring in the goal of a modern, knowledge- and security-oriented, strong European budget. We're not gonna win the ceiling, the maximum amount, the payment discussion either. So you lose in both areas and in the meantime you lose a lot of credit without any result. I just don't think it's a sensible attitude. I say that in different debates, and I keep saying that, because I think that we as the Netherlands should do better than we have done so far. Moreover, I agree with Mrs Leijten on one point, namely that next time Mr Jetten will be here to strengthen this position. But that's not until January 1st. So today you have to do it with me, but then it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u36	You're going to miss Verhoe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u37	"Mrs Verhoeven" is a very freudian slip, but there is going to be a change in the personnel position of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u38	You're going to miss Mr Verhoeven, I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u39	As you know, it is always a pleasure to debate with Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u40	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u41	What Mr Verhoeven is saying here is really a mistake. To have support and prestige, do we have to put in more money to get what we want? Is this how it works in Europe? Do you have to pull the wallet to get what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u42	We don't have to draw a wallet at all. I'm not saying we should all pull the wallet. I say we let the content be guiding. A large part of this Chamber and a large part of the population have said that Europe must tackle some of the major cross-border global challenges. Almost all parties have said this in recent years. Just now there was another discussion between Mrs Maeijer and Mrs Leijten about what Europe should and should not do. These challenges include climate, migration, innovation, competitiveness, internal market and technology. We all want the European Union to take the lead in getting a strong position in the world for the Netherlands, but then we forget all that when it comes to the contribution. Everyone will say: as long as the contribution doesn't go up! I say: do this discussion a little more pragmatically. Just loosen it up a little bit. If it is necessary to achieve those results and not just look at the payments, then I think we should do so. That's my message here. That's a very clear message.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u43	Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u44	And that Mrs Leijten makes it clear that Mr Verhoeven wants to draw the wallet, that is all well and good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u45	This is a long answer to a really simple question. Is that how it works in Europe that you get what you want when you pull the wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u46	The answer to that question is no. The comma behind that answer is that the Netherlands is losing its credit and is thus losing the chance of a good European budget. I think that's a missed opportunity for the future, and I'm warning you now, instead of thinking in two years' time, that's what we should have done differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u47	Finally. So I really think that's a mistake: you're losing your credit. With who? For people who think that everything should stay the same and that new ambitions should be paid for by the Netherlands, by countries that are net contributors. With this attitude you lose credit with the people who pay this, the ordinary taxpayer. That should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u48	So I don't want to stick to everything. I'm open for a change. The SP, together with the Prime Minister, who is also quite conservative on this point, wants to keep everything to the old. He says, "I'm just looking..." Yeah, you should be proud of this bond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u49	Yeah, that combination...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u50	The VVD and the SP are gathering in Europe. Well, the scales are falling off my eyes. The Prime Minister is proud of it. I'm glad I'm not part of that fan club. Then I'd rather sit with the group that says, "We're going to modernise. We are going to look progressively at the strength of Europe and, if necessary, we are looking not only at the price but also at the product." The product is a stronger Union. The product is a good budget. The budget is the framework for what the European Union is going to do. You can't have your mouth full of wonderful actions, but then every time you say: yes, but I don't have a penny for that. That is too much the Prime Minister's attitude at the moment. And it is also Mrs Leijten's attitude. And if those two find each other, I'm glad I'm standing here and not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u51	Now Mrs Leijten has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u52	Well, that's a bit of a tradition, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u53	If there is 400 billion left over from the current budget and we as a country contribute more than 7 billion per year, it is not that we are in the first place for a dime. It's not like there's a shortage of money. I have a lot of criticism of the VVD and of this Prime Minister, but if I can help the Prime Minister and also the Minister of Finance to keep their backs straight, so that we do not have to transfer any more money, I will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u54	Yeah, I know. Mrs Leijten is well aware of the 400 million left. Excuse me, 400 billion. It doesn't matter. It matters a lot in terms of money, but not for my point. The 400 billion is over because of the way in which Europe is budgeted. Mrs Leijten knows very well, as a financial spokesman and Europe spokesperson, that this has to do with the way in which we budgeted. It has nothing to do with too much money going to the European Union. Whether we allow less or more money to go to the European Union in the future, there will still be a budget, because of the budgetary system. The European Union must not be in debt, so there is always a buffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u55	I have always considered it a very great privilege to have the debate here with Kees Verhoeven. I am very sorry to hear that D66 is sending a replacement after January. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u56	Tastes different, isn't it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u57	For example, the report says: hilarity. But I'm sure that wasn't meant for you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven has just made it quite clear that, in his view, the Prime Minister's strategy does not mean that his objective of keeping it at 1% will be met and that his other objective, modernisation, will not be achieved. Mr Verhoeven is not here for the first time, but what figure would he give for the Prime Minister's strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u58	Now Mr Asscher has done what he... He is in the top ten debaters in this debate. He's doing a trick now. He's giving some kind of semicompliment first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u59	Good. And now for the answer, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u60	This is what Mr Asscher does himself all the time. He's now giving me some kind of semi-compliment that has to loosen me up a little bit, so I'm gonna give you a figure here that I'm failing the Prime Minister. But I don't want to. I will say that this strategy is not enough for me. There is a strategy with two objectives, on the one hand monitoring a maximum contribution of 1% for the Netherlands and on the other hand modernising the old budgets for agriculture and cohesion to what is needed in the future to keep Europe alive in the world. If you have both these objectives and pursue a strategy that does not meet both objectives, you are not doing well. I am not going to put a figure on it, but in the more global assessment of the cabinet, I would like to say that I do not think that is a smart strategy. That means that it has to be changed, and so it is not enough. If I thought the strategy was enough, I would actually say that I like it and I can't. I would like to reply to Mr Asscher in a clever way, namely that I do not think that this is enough as a strategy. I therefore call for a change to that strategy in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u61	Mr Verhoeven gave an incompetence to the Prime Minister. If you don't, you won't. So what is the consequence of that insufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u62	That's exactly what I'm saying here. I say to the Prime Minister: change that strategy, start a strategy that will make you successful. The Prime Minister will have to answer in this debate and I will judge the outcome. I do not know that result yet and I do not know it tomorrow, but D66's commitment is very healthy for a coalition group that is pro-European and who thinks there are opportunities to take advantage of in Europe, which we say to the Prime Minister: change the stubborn, short-sighted course of merely looking at the payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u63	It's an interim conclusion, though. D66 says here that the Prime Minister is getting an inadequate and a stubborn, short-sighted course that has to change, but does not have any consequences for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u64	Mr Asscher wants a consequence. I want the Prime Minister to change his approach. There will still be a great deal of movement in the area of this budget in the coming period. I think the Prime Minister should then take the words and advice of D66 with him and look for a better strategy. At the end of the ride we'll see where we come from. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u65	Proceed, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u66	Then I think I have two minutes left and I will devote them to the rule of law in Malta, because it is in decline due to crime, corruption, money laundering and the murder of journalist Daphne Caruana who was investigating that corruption in her country. There are signs that this is coming from circles around the Prime Minister and even a chief of staff from the Prime Minister has been questioned. These are, of course, very serious facts. It is, of course, also bad for the European Union if the rule of law of Malta, an EU Member, can develop in this way. How does the Prime Minister look at the integrity of the Maltese Prime Minister, who has announced his resignation but is still in the saddle? Above all, what will the Prime Minister do at the European Summit to allow and allow an independent investigation into the murder of that journalist? Because that is not just being made possible in a good way at the moment. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u67	I was inspired for a moment because Mr Verhoeven put it so sharply that the cabinet actually wants two different things that are not very compatible. Now the case is that Europe actually wants to do it a little bit. We want both climate policy and an aggressive export and import strategy. We want to protect forests and a trade deal with Bolsonaro for which the Amazon is going down. I don't see D66 making any choices in that either. If D66 really wants a good European climate policy and insists that we protect forests worldwide as well as human rights, what choices will D66 make in relation to the trade agreements and in relation to agricultural subsidies and the fact that the European Commission calls biomass sustainable? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u68	I think the difference between the Party of Animals is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u69	For the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u70	Apologies, the Party for Animals. Apologies, through the chairman also to Mrs Ouwehand. From a party that's been in parliament for so long, I should just know the name. So that's sloppy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u71	I'm deeply moved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u72	That was not my intention, but care is a good quality and I will do my best to do this better. The difference between Mrs Ouwehand's party and my party is that we are looking for a certain workable balance and that we believe that a trade agreement is necessary to achieve a number of important objectives, objectives related to better animal handling, better climate management and better handling of the safety of certain products and how they are achieved. At the same time, we believe that you should also be able to admit that in such a trade agreement you can never be 100% right and that there will always be points to point out, which Mrs Ouwehand is very good at and very keen on, which she is also very valuable as a parliamentarians, but D66 does not say: this is not 100% what we want, so we do not do it. We would prefer 80% to be equal to a trade agreement that makes the world a little bit better than saying no to everything because there are still things in it that aren't perfect. That's another style of politics. That's, I think, the answer. I cannot go into all the details as much as Mrs Ouwehand, because I do have some, but no full knowledge of these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u73	This is gonna be a little easy. Of course there are differences between the Party for Animals and D66, but that was not the question. The question was: if D66 wants Europe to have a good climate policy, stand for human rights and stand for the protection of forests worldwide, how can it at the same time conclude a trade deal with Bolsonaro, who says that the indigenous peoples are actually parasites? We see violence and murders taking place, we see that the Amazon is going down for this trade deal, we see that the European Union calls biomass sustainable; then D66 must also make choices. Otherwise, she will do exactly the same thing she blames the Cabinet: that you want two things at the same time, which can't actually be done at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u74	That last parallel's a little far-fetched. If you're going to unravel it completely, I won't, because then it's gonna get late, you'll see that it's a bit of a crooked equation; liked it, but not very workable for me. Another smart thing about Mrs. Ouwehand is that she keeps talking about Bolsonaro. In my view, D66 has been quite critical of the trade agreement and its consequences and we have made very clear comments on it. We are far from being able to fully agree to this. What Mrs Ouwehand does not mention is the trade agreement with Mr Trudeau. That trade agreement is a lot more advanced. Mr Trudeau is the prime minister of one of the countries which, I think, are the most similar to the Netherlands and the European Union. It is incredibly progressive on many fronts. If you can't make a trade treaty with that, you can't do it with anyone. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Ouwehand: let us look at the whole picture. But the Party for Animals is against that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u75	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u76	I think you should simply say that the Animal Party is actually against any trade agreement. That doesn't apply to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u77	The latter, of course, does not leave Mrs Ouwehand unspoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u78	I don't think there's a trade treaty the Animal Party is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u79	But there will be a separate debate on this. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u80	That's right; we haven't seen a trade agreement pass by that we were excited about. That is because agriculture is always a big part of it. The Foreign Trade Minister said if you take that out, you don't have a deal. Well, then, that's the state of play. But if you call, like D66, in the media, that the livestock in the Netherlands should shrink by half, we are in favour of this too, then you can't look away when farmers say "yes, but wait a minute"? Surely you cannot open up the borders to meat and other agricultural products that are produced far below European standards, thereby organising your own unfair competition? D66 can't do that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u81	I have now heard this argument a number of times from the Party for Animals. I can see that a trade agreement will lead to more trade. In any case, it is an attempt to trade more and better. That is an objective that D66 supports. In the case of the Trade Agreement with Canada, CETA, we are positive about this; that is our consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u83	And that is in some connection, but not in full connection, with D66's views on the position of farmers in the Netherlands and the nitrogen crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u85	Thank you, Mr President. On Twitter, we saw an announcement from the European Commission, and they are quite excited about the fact that they are going to present a new EU Green Deal tomorrow. Maybe you think that's good news, but they're already pointing out that it's a new growth strategy for our economy, our people and our planet. I say to the Prime Minister: that does not go together; there is a very costly mistake in thinking, which, frankly, we cannot afford anymore. A planet that will not grow any further cannot cope with eternal economic growth. When it comes to money, we in Europe have agreed that budget deficits should not exceed 3% per year, but does the Prime Minister happen to know what the annual ecological deficit in the European Union is? This is about the resources that the Earth can provide each year and regenerate on its own. How quickly do we get through this every year in the European Union? Mr. Chairman. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this great mistake of thinking that the economy must continue to grow must be the first off the table. Economic growth is not the solution but the problem. I would remind the Prime Minister of his words at the national climate summit after the Paris Convention was concluded. He said: there was urgency in the air in Paris; there was a broad shared feeling that the time of waiting has passed and that the time has come to act. I would like the Prime Minister, with that thought in his head, to judge the European Commission's climate plans that are being presented. Because if we do not say goodbye to the idea that we should always grow, and if we do not say goodbye to agricultural subsidies for the next 365 billion a year; and they go to dairy farming to a large extent, while dairy farming is one of the biggest sources of dangerous greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture, so you are subsidising your own climate change for the next seven years. And if you want to achieve a goal in 2030, you have only two years left on 1 January 2029. Mr. Chairman. The European Union will also have to make a real change in its policy on renewable energy. So as long as you continue to call biomass sustainable, you encourage biomass to be used as a sustainable energy source in all Member States, you encourage a country like the Netherlands to grant it 11.4 billion and stimulate forest cover around the world. There are whole forests in biomass plants. Can the Prime Minister promise that he will work to ensure that biomass falls out of the sustainability framework? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the trade deals. If you want to pursue a climate policy as a European Union, you cannot make deals with countries that impose less climate rules on their businesses, ask less of their agriculture than the European Union does, and b directly cause deforestation and threats to human rights. I am referring, for example, to the trade deal with Mercosur, including Brazil. We have already asked the Foreign Trade Minister a few times where she is drawing the line when it comes to human rights. We know that Bolsonaro has said that he considers the indigenous people to be parasites. And we know that violence against these people is increasing. These people have begged the House of Representatives to say no to the Mercosur Treaty. The Foreign Trade Minister has so far not been shrinking while people have been murdered again in the last week. Where does the Prime Minister draw the line when it comes to concluding trade deals with Heads of Government who simply do not care about human rights, climate and the need to protect our forests? And if the Prime Minister has forgotten, I would remind him of his appeal to the European Commission this summer to speed up the Mercosur agreement. That was a letter from Angela Merkel that he signed. Yeah, I get that Angela Merkel wants that, because that's good for the German car industry. But the Prime Minister must stand for the Dutch farmers, mustn't he? And how did his note to the European Commission actually fall to the farmers, whom he has often spoken over the last few days? Farmers are not waiting for unfair competition from cheap products from Brazil. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Today, the First Chamber approved the ban on the use of coal. That in itself is a joyous fact. Now there's one thing in the way. That is the Energy Charter Treaty, which provides investment protection to foreign companies that have invested in Dutch coal plants and are now threatening billions of claims. Is the Prime Minister prepared to call tomorrow in Europe for the withdrawal of that treaty with regard to the Netherlands? The Party for Animals has already asked Parliament questions. I can imagine that the Prime Minister cannot answer all of them at the moment, but that we should get out of that treaty, that seems clear to us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u86	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u87	Mr. Chairman. What is the European Union actually like? Strong and weak at the same time. Strong, because of a strong economy in a big block and a collaboration based on values. Weak, because Brexit crumbles the faith in Europe. But also weak, because the rule of law is being undermined within Europe. This cultural council, which my colleague Mr Bram van Ojik has just spoken about, is a very tragic example: a cultural council that only grants subsidies to a theatre acting in the national interest, a right of veto over the appointment of theatre directors to the Minister of Culture, in a Member State of the European Union. My question to the Prime Minister is to make a clear statement on this and to indicate what initiatives he intends to take to defend the importance of the rule of law within the European Union, because the way in which you deal with it also determines the authority of the European Union externally. Mr. Chairman. You often see that countries that are not close to the rule of law are also sensitive to corruption. The New York Times showed that tens of millions of agricultural subsidies are being cheated by Hungary and the Czech Republic, among others. The European Commission has a zero tolerance policy on this. But there is also a weakness in the system, because if you then take away a subsidy, it will actually remain available for the country where fraud has been committed. In fact, this could lead the regime to make a mistake over and over again. I ask the Prime Minister to respond to that fact and to work for another system, in which, once fraud has been established, the funds do not go back to the Member State where fraud has been committed. Mr. Chairman. The European Union also has a commitment to provide people with progress, to create prosperity and, therefore, to deal fairly with taxation vis-à-vis workers. The European Union should make much more use of this power. You can see that in the absence of them, Member States are forced to take those steps themselves. In the meantime, France has come up with a digitaks, a tax on technology multinationals. That is an initiative that the Netherlands should follow as far as I am concerned. The United States has reacted with some kind of bullying 100% import levy on some French products. In doing so, the United States actually reacted to a sovereign decision by countries to lay down their own rules on taxation. One should not think that Trump would find anything of the intention to abolish the dividend tax, to mention just one random example that the Prime Minister knows well. From the hall is called: no active memory! No! My question to the Prime Minister is to show solidarity with France on this point and to say that it is important that Member States in the European Union should keep the room for this type of charge. I also ask him to respond to the state of play of the OECD's initiative to achieve a global way of lifting these large technology companies. I would also like to hear his willingness, in the absence of progress on this initiative, to participate at European or national level in such a tax, which is fair. As long as huge profits are made thanks to data from workers and Europeans, from which nothing is returned to governments, it is also an erosion of the facilities we have in Europe. We should do something about that. That would certainly be much stronger, also to use the strength of Europe for the benefit of the European. The latter is also very important when we look at the Green Deal, which is already being discussed and about which many questions have already been asked. The Labour Party is proud that Frans Timmermans is the one who will present this Green Deal. I think that an essential part of its success will be whether it really succeeds in making it from and for everyone. You're not gonna take the happy few to stop climate change. Then there is not enough support for it. You will have to show that at the same time you are promoting social progress and equality and taking the necessary measures to combat climate change. In this respect, I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to the fund that is to come, precisely to ensure that you bring people along, to isolate houses, but also to help workers who may be affected by the changes. I also ask him whether the Netherlands is prepared to make use of these funds, for example to help coal-fired workers to find new jobs, because here too: in the end, the strength of this kind of policy lies in whether people are making progress. In this respect, I agree with Mrs Leijten's question. It's not about the paper objective. It's mostly about the changes you're going through with each other. And then there will be support, not only in the political sense, but also among the population. Finally, the budget. I have just heard that there has been an inadequate distribution of the government's policy on the budget. I thought that was intense and sharp of D66, but I do understand a little where that came from. Whether there is an active memory of it or not, 'not a penny to the Greeks' and '1% to Brussels' call on many of us to remember a promise that you probably cannot live up to. The question is therefore whether it is wise to make such a promise, to draw that hard line, if you already know that this is probably not real. If it were in Dutch interest for the European Union to invest in security, in much better regulation of migration, in combating climate change, in protecting human rights, and in a more modern budget, in which you promote innovation rather than subsidising old-fashioned agriculture, if you could achieve all this in the interests of Dutch citizens and companies, would it not be much wiser to go for it instead of keeping the more domestic promise of 1% high? So my question to the Prime Minister is exactly how hard that promise is. Would it not be wiser to advocate a strong Union in the interests of the Netherlands, in addition to which the new budgetary system can be linked to whether countries comply with the rule of law, whether they defend it, or whether they defend freedom, so that they can be punished if they do not? That is, I think, a value. I shall be back at the beginning of my speech, which is now asking for a sharp intervention in Europe, in the interests of people in Hungary and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u88	Mr. Chairman. The final point to that link, that conditionality, I think is a wonderful addition to what I said. That should also be part of a modern European budget. I don't think so. At the beginning of his speech, Mr Asscher made a bit of a game of the insufficient I gave for the Prime Minister's strategy. However, I am not taking back a word of that. I don't think it's a smart strategy to focus on that. However, if I listen carefully to Mr Asscher, I think he agrees 90% with my analysis and shares the analysis that we are doing ourselves as the Netherlands too short. Apart from the political explanation that we can give in the inner world of the Hague, is it true that Mr Asscher supports D66's speech on the commitment that the Netherlands should make and the change that the Prime Minister could use to get the budget right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u89	We are very much in favour of strengthening the European Union, and we also believe that the budget should express this. As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't really have to increase very much, but I think it's fine if you can show that it's in the Dutch interest that more goes into innovation, that Dutch companies and citizens benefit from it, that you promote social progress, that you combat poverty and that you end up with a contribution that fits in with it. In that sense, I understood D66's criticism, but all I thought was that D66 was in the coalition. If D66 gives an incompetence and repeats it here by saying that there is a stupid strategy, then I expect that strategy to change, or that there will be consequences. I think that's very good. If Mr Verhoeven comes up with proposals on this matter, we will examine them in substance. But I think that there is a real opportunity, precisely because Europe is also setting new ambitions, precisely because Europe is increasingly realising to the United States and China that you must dare to promote another model that is the interests of workers, the interests of the planet and of sustainable growth. I do not agree with Mrs Ouwehand in this respect, because I think you do need growth. This also includes making the choices in the budget that are part of it. It may well be that we can agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u90	In other words, but in a similar way, Mr Asscher actually says the same thing as I did. I'm very happy about that. I can reassure him. I myself will come forward with concrete proposals in the very short term to further convince the Prime Minister that he needs to adjust his strategy in the area of the MFF deployment. Then we can discuss this further, but I am absolutely going beyond just saying that this is not convenient. I will also come up with an alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u91	We're gonna live to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u92	Thank you. Then Mr Bishop. No, Mr. Asscher, don't run away, because Mr. Bishop wants to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u93	Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u94	It's okay. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u95	I understood, Mr. Asscher: you got leave from the chairman, and then you go, of course. Mr President, a question. I hear Mr Asscher saying that we should really get rid of those classic subsidies for agriculture. Now the EU's policy has been, among other things, to keep the cost of living affordable and as low as possible. Does Mr Asscher agree with me that he implicitly says that the cost of living can therefore increase? For the farmers, the entrepreneurs, the farmers, must have their costs covered somewhere. Indeed, they are now receiving them through certain EU subsidies. We'll get rid of it. But does that mean that the cost of the products must be raised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u96	No, I disagree with Mr Bishop. I see that the way agricultural funds are distributed, the way they are used and the way they are targeted can be improved. I think that it would be very helpful for Dutch farmers in particular if the subsidy were much more focused on a more sustainable form of agriculture. That would be good for their livelihood, but that would also be good for their competitiveness vis-à-vis others. It would be fairer and more effective. I see that we are actually dragging with us the legacy of an agricultural policy from the 1950s, from reconstruction. That's gonna cost a lot of money. It really had its function. I'm not saying you have to get rid of all that either. I'm saying you have to modernise it. That has been the policy of this government for a long time and I support the cabinet on this point. However, I am afraid that if you take that 1% mantra to Brussels, you will not achieve enough in modernising the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u97	As far as I can see, it is not the consequence of the policy that was put in place in the 1950s, but the consequence of the policy that was put in place under Sicco Mansholt, with the Mansholt Plan. That's when the cost-cutting subsidy started. Even if you shift that to the other activities, the production, if it remains the same, will still have to be covered in terms of costs. Then we fool ourselves when we say: no, this is not accompanied by an increase in the cost of food production. That's exactly what it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u98	I do not think that, for example, by putting Dutch farmers, who are more innovative and sustainable, in a competitive disadvantage compared to the much more mass production, you can also have advantages in terms of cost, for example for Dutch consumers and for Dutch farmers. I'm not so worried about change in this case. I think, on the contrary, that the way in which the European budget works at the moment is not to the advantage of the Netherlands and not to the advantage of the future of the European economy, and that you need to modernise. On that point, I support the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u99	A final comment on this point. It is precisely thanks to the subsidies that I leave out for a moment what you think of large scale or whatever, the Dutch agricultural sector has become one of the most innovative sectors in the world. This can reduce the cost. So I'm sticking with it: the moment you skim subsidies, that means by definition that the common man is going to pay more for his food.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u100	I note that Mr Bishop repeats his point. It does not seem to me to be conducive to the debate if I repeat my response. Let me say this. I think, on the contrary, that it is very important to keep an eye on the standard of living in Europe, the poverty that exists and the trouble that people have to make ends meet. It is fine to spend money on this; I like to work on this together, including with the SGP. At the same time, however, I believe that the way in which the agricultural budget is now operating needs to be modernised. That is in the best interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u101	A brief question at the last minute. I hear Mr Asscher talking enthusiastically about the Green Deal. One of the leaked plans, for example, is a mileage tax. After that I hear Mr Asscher partly embrace the ideas of D66: there can be more money to the European budget. But the question is, who is going to pay for that, Mr. Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u102	I think it is already the case that if you drive through Europe, you will encounter a mess of forms of pricing. Here it is a vignette, there it is a toll road and there they have another system. I think it would be much better, precisely to avoid competitive disadvantages between countries, to go to one system, so that you ask for a reasonable price. The Prime Minister can drive another 130 outside the Netherlands. Let us also continue to give each other the pleasures of life. But I think that's much better. The same applies to the kerosene load. Such measures are much better if they are taken at European level and if the money is returned to the citizens of Europe, rather than taking those measures as individual countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u103	I'm trying to keep my questions a little low-key, but I didn't really get an answer. Who's gonna pay for it now? It is the Dutch taxpayers who are going to pay for this, isn't it? The same people who have seen their energy bill rise by €300 in the past year? They're gonna pay for those plans from the Green Deal and for the extra money you're gonna pay Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u104	No, one of the elements that I clearly see in it, more than in this cabinet, is that the strongest shoulders will bear the heavy burden. The companies are going to pay for it, the financial institutions are going to have to pay for it and the big polluters are going to have to pay for it. I think that's fair, too. On the contrary, we have advocated moving quickly to a CO tax in the Netherlands, whereby large companies, which produce the most emissions, pay. With that money, you can do something about the high-energy bill. That is one of our proposals. We showed you that, and we passed it on. There are all ifs and buts, but that's possible. It should be an issue for which we could be supported by the PVV. Then you ask the big companies that cause the pollution to pay their share. Then you don't have to raise the energy bill like this cabinet did. I think that the only way climate policy can really work is to ensure that ordinary people have the benefits and not just the disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u105	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next Thursday and Friday is a bit the hour of truth for some. What is really going to come of Europe? It looks like it's going to be a traditional rubbert fight about the question: is it going to be more or is it going to be less? The Netherlands, together with Denmark, Sweden and Austria, has acquired a kind of nickname from the greedy four. In our view that would be more sensible four, but apparently you're already stingy if you don't want to spend much more. I would also say to Mr Verhoeven: 50PLUS is about what you spend the money on and not necessarily whether it should be more or less. It is about content and we look for it more in shifting within the whole. It is perhaps the sad mantra of the EU that it often needs to be more to be able to do something. But you will have to intervene deeply in the budget if you are to achieve a number of other things in the EU. As far as we are concerned, shifting that 40% from agriculture to climate action is a welcome change in EU policy. For let us be clear: 80% of EU subsidies for agriculture go to very large farms and not to small farmers. They make our exports a lot cheaper in terms of price, that's true. Only 91% of what we produce here in the Netherlands goes abroad. So the question is whether the circular economy, which the cabinet also confesses, would not mean that we would all get a lot healthier without costing much more extra money, while we could do a number of climate issues that would then not end up with the citizens, but which would come from the EU budget, without creating a burden increase. We also saw, of course, that there was a good compromise with the Finnish proposal. It would all be a bit more, but without more money, at least it would cost more money, but then we will have something more of what we would like. We regret that, because it is always this premise that we need a lot more money if we are to achieve something that is not going to go in with us. I wish I could. I would give it a lot of employees and pensioners if we could all get out if we just increased the budget a little bit. But I can't. The EU will also have to work with a limited budget. With that limited budget, the right choices must be made. I am also hearing some good suggestions about things that need to be done. For example, I would like to support Mr Verhoeven in his story on the railways. But that doesn't mean it can all be painless. A number of existing expenditures, expenditure on agriculture and cohesion funds, will therefore have to be cut in order to be able to spend more money on appropriate measures in the area of migration in addition to climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u107	Mr Van Otterloo's speech is a bit of someone who thinks you can get anything you want. A few years ago, I also say to Mrs Leijten, was the commitment of the cabinet that we would try to reform the European budget with closed grants. Most parties agreed on that. But that's not gonna work. This is evident from the Finnish compromise proposal. It's not like I don't think it's gonna work. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This shows that the overall budget is rising and that the reforms are very lean. So you have to make a choice as to what you want, content or budget. D66 says: in view of the situation in the world, Europe must choose a sharp content...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u108	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u109	... and then look at the price tag. I therefore ask Mr Van Otterloo what 50PLUS puts first, the content or the amount. Because one minute he says that he thinks the content is important, but at the other moment he says that he also thinks the budget is important. But you can't have both. It's become clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u110	Let Mr Van Otterloo give us an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u111	I shall now have Mr Van Otterloo reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u112	I can't increase my own wallet by thinking I want a little more. This is about content. Good spending needs to be done. The question is not whether it should always cost more. If I want to cut back on spending money on something else, those are the right choices. It is not the right choice to accept that there are no or only minor changes to the policy. With us lies that playing field... I do know that thinking out of the box is always nice, because then you have something else. But when it comes to spending money, out of the box thinking is an unproductive strategy, we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u114	Yes. Finally. As I have already said to Mr Verhoeven, we support him in the attention he calls for an improved rail network and much more cooperation. We also share the criticisms of the state of law in a number of countries. In addition, I think it is right that Europe, as an economic power, should also look at how its own technology policy can be pursued. In this respect, we have noted with satisfaction the investment made in a European programme for the development of batteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u115	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u116	Mr. Chairman. We are here in preparation for the last European summit of 2019. Over the past year, I have been talking about cutting back on our pulse fishing, exporting our WW payments, giving up our veto rights, enlargement of the European Union and increasing Dutch payments. The red line in all these Brussels ideas is: we get the bill presented, left or right. Is it not by cheque or by surrendering our sovereignty? We get the bill presented because our pulse fishermen are no longer allowed to sail, because we have to pay for the payment of Polish workers, because we would have to hand over control over foreign policy, because the EU wants to get bigger and bigger, and because the word "sustaining" does not appear in the Brussels dictionary, even if a Member State states that it wants to leave. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is the largest net contributor of the European Union this century. And with every budget, we pay more. Next year, Brussels will cost us more than EUR 8 billion. That is a lot of money, money that we can spend much better in the Netherlands, for example to our elderly people, our care, or to ease the burden for all Dutch people. But that 8 billion, Mr President, that 8 billion is not enough. That is what the European Commission thinks, and that is what the Finnish Presidency thinks, and that is what this cabinet thinks. And they offer against each other: 10 billion, 12.5 billion, 13 billion. But the end result is the same: our contribution goes up, goes up. When is this gonna stop, I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister? I'd like a response. And in the context of the negotiating circus, we hear the EU bobos. With hard-earned Dutch tax money, we pay for European Commissioners and Directors-General who keep the same slogans on the air. "We must have ambition." "We must serve the interests of our citizens." "Rich countries like the Netherlands can pay a little more." How significant is it that the new President of the European Council, when he had barely unpacked the moving boxes in his luxurious office, preached the following on his first working day? Let me just say it in my own words. "The Netherlands must stop talking about the 10 billion and keeping the discount, because we must be able to finance our European ambitions." Mr. Chairman. We are no longer in charge of our own borders, of our own pensions, and soon we will no longer be in charge of our own foreign policy. When, Mr President, when will it finally be enough? When are we going to be boss of our own country again and decide what's right? When, Mr President, will the cabinet take all these gripping hands out of the Dutch tax pot? Mr. Chairman. The answer is, I fear, never. Prime Minister Rutte is going to end the year 2019 in style, according to good Brussels usage. It's about the blue carpet, there's probably a good lunch or a nice dinner and there might be a glass of bubbles. Because hearsay they have a very good wine cellar there. And at the end of the old year, there are still some agreements on climate, to be understood, climate neutrality. So I suppose Prime Minister Rutte is moving by bike to Brussels. And can we also assume that the Prime Minister will agree in the coming days that the movement circus from Brussels to Strasbourg will stop immediately? The European Union must become a kind of Switzerland in the area of climate by 2050. While everyone's out, we're gonna be neutral. I guess those glasses of Brussels bubble aren't a metaphor after all. Under the leadership of climate pope Timmermans, climate hysteria almost assumes mythical proportions. With the support of once the VVD, the European Parliament proclaimed the climate emergency, while at the same time leaking the plans of the Dutch entry to the European Commission. They don't promise much good. One would almost think that Mr Timmermans was hit by a subsidised windmill, because he would like, among other things, a mileage tax throughout the European Union, a new tax on aviation and a demand package for the agricultural sector. Do you think, Prime Minister Rutte, that that is what all those people who see their energy taxes rising over and over again are waiting for? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is talking at EU level about reducing costs and fair transition. But, Prime Minister Rutte, what is all this going to cost? And who's gonna pay for this? Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the Dutch taxpayer will not pay for this? Finally, Mr President. Much has happened in 2019, but the Brexit is still not a fact. Next Thursday, during this summit, the British will go to the ballot box. And even though it's all about polls now, it seems to be looking good for Johnson. Hopefully, more than three and a half years after that breakthrough, that exit from the European Union will finally come, so that the British show us that EU integration is not irreversible and membership of the Union is a choice that the PVV would not make as it is known. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with a few questions. What costs, I ask the Prime Minister, will be financed outside the multiannual budget and have not yet been taken into account in the calculation of the Dutch contribution? I am thinking, for example, of the European Peace Facility, but perhaps there is more. Then there's my second question. Will all these mad plans from the Green Deal be covered by the multiannual budget, or should the Netherlands pay for this separately again? Three. Will the transition fund of supposedly EUR 100 billion be covered by the new MFF or financed separately? Then there's my last question. How will the European Investment Bank get capital to release 1,000 billion euros of green investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u117	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Recently, a nice Clingendael report with sharp analyses was published entitled "The European Commission in balance? Ambition, organization and power." The report highlights the history and nature of the European Commission as a garbage can variety. That is not meant to be annoying or negative, but it is meant to be a matter of state law. In fact, the Commission is taking up a somewhat undecided state-of-the-art position. The report clarifies how this body gained more and more influence. In addition, researchers highlight a number of bottlenecks, such as whether the Commission does not take over too many tasks from indeed sometimes failing Member States. A second question is how an ambitious Commission relates to support in the Member States. Thirdly, what does the Commission's choice of visionary, group-oriented or functional leadership mean for the future of the European Union? Mr. Chairman. These are legitimate questions, which give cause for concern about the position of the EU Member States. Under Von der Leyen, the Commission clearly opts for ambition and vision. Interestingly, the Clingendael report shows that ambition can be ineffective, because of the Member States' desire to use solidarity, financial obligations and the transfer of sovereignty as a means of saving money. I have the following questions to the Prime Minister on this point. Firstly, does he share the concern that too much ambition is at the expense of state sovereignty, of the support for the EU and even of the effectiveness of the Commission? The second question is whether, in its input for the Commission's work programme, the cabinet has advocated greater scope for diversity and variation. Mr. Chairman. The new Commission sets the green bar very high. Timmermans and his colleagues want more direction on our environmental, energy and climate policies. Certainly, from the point of view of stewardship, we must take steps towards a healthy living environment and a sustainable energy supply, but that does not mean that the principle of subsidiarity should be abandoned. And I can see that happening now, at least, I can see that it is moving in that direction. Let the EU do what it is intended to do, ensure a good emissions trading system and sufficient power cables between the Member States; let us put it simply, but let the Member States themselves continue. My question to the Prime Minister is how he will ensure that Von der Leyen and Timmermans stay with them on this point. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the European Central Bank. Its main objective is to maintain price stability. A second objective is now added, which is to make a significant contribution to climate objectives. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that the ECB is going to go beyond its competence and what is he going to do to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. I also had a question about the Multiannual Financial Framework. That question has already been asked. I agree with those Members who have called for the 1% standard to be maintained. How will the Prime Minister achieve this goal? Finally, Mr President. Europe is facing an exciting period. Is it: is the EU there for the Member States? Or is it the motto: the Member States are there for the EU? The Clingendael report notes that the Treaties could provide more clarity, for example on the objectives and position of the Commission as a driving force for integration, or on the fact that the closer union between the European Member States can also take place through transgovernmentalism. In that light, my final question is: what about the implementation of the Bishop/Leijten motion adopted in April on the deletion of the phrase 'ever closer union'? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u119	Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u120	In view of the major changes that are taking place in agriculture and which are probably also taking place as a result of the climate plans, I would like to ask the SGP how it stands with regard to the trade agreements, including CETA, which also raises one of the other problems that Mr Bisschop has just appointed: the transfer of powers to the EU. In fact, there are committees in that treaty which, without parliamentary control, can adapt that treaty together after the Member States have expressed their views on it. I was wondering what the SGP would be like in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u121	We are going to talk about these trade agreements in greater detail, I suppose. At that time, we will make our position clear, but we have never under stood that we are reserved for a number of reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u122	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join with Mr Van Ojik in his words. The government was not in favour of the Magnitsky Act and it was quite difficult, we noticed, to get this through. That's why I have all the more respect that that's going to be deployed. I hope that this sanction mechanism never needs to be used, but if I look around the world a little bit, it could be a very useful tool. Then we have an instrument to deny access to the EU to people who are seriously violating human rights, who are killing, torture, and all of us in the Union at the same time, because that is what we are talking about. Then we have something to do with human rights. This is also much more targeted than, for example, imposing sanctions on an entire country. People don't like it when they can't shop in Paris anymore, when they can't send their children to Oxford University or store their money on the Zuidas. That hurts, because it is precisely the human rights criminals who are the people who prefer to flee their own country when there is a regime change. So that could also help a little. We therefore wish the government much strength with the good effect of this, because we understand that this is not yet 100%. Mr. Chairman. It is a full European summit and the first of the new Von der Leyen Commission. I will start with the MFF and the ESM, then with the climate measures, with migration and with Malta, and finally with the Brexit and Albania. The CDA supports the government's commitment to a maximum of 1% of GDP. If I were the government, I'd just wear that greedy four with honor. Most cuts have been found in the new priorities, for example in the annotated agenda. But shouldn't we bet on that? With regard to cohesion policy, can the Minister indicate how this relates to the BICC, which should be included within the MFF framework and perhaps replace the cohesion funds? That'll give you room to tear it down. We would like to know whether BICC is also within these MFF frameworks. The positions in the Council are miles apart. Can the Minister give an idea of how the Croatian and German Presidencies will try to resolve this jointly in 2020, in order to launch the MFF in 2021? This is important because we can then see at what point we could still exercise influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u124	Brief question, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u125	Mr Omtzigt read from the annotated agenda: the cuts are found in the new priorities. And agricultural expenditure is going up again. Of course, that comes from somewhere. What conclusion does Mr Omtzig draw from that? There is a new Finnish compromise, which actually says: "The Netherlands gets a bit of a sense of size; not by a long shot, but a bit. But then we will also do something about the planned modernisation. It will then become less." How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u126	I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u127	Then my question doesn't count either, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u128	Mr Van Ojik's question is indeed relevant, so let me mention just one point that I really do miss out on the content of the new Commission, namely migration. Mr Bishop was already very clear on a number of monetary policy issues, but migration is the other major project that we have not yet completed but where there are still challenges to take common decisions. We can all close our eyes now, because we do not think that there is a large current at the moment, but the border there is not in order. He's not in order to send people back. Well, we already saw that Morocco didn't succeed, let alone that it would succeed with slightly more difficult countries. In common, we really need five teeth. I would ask the government not to allow this important dossier to disappear into the background, and not to wait for another migration crisis to break out somewhere and then panic all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u129	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u130	I have two questions about the ESM Treaty that could be amended for the back-stop. The first question about the backstop is how we deal with a system crisis. What happens if Deutsche Bank and a number of other banks collapse together? Is that well thought out, to ensure that the system is maintained and that the Netherlands does not pay? This scenario is not entirely fictitious, as you understand. Secondly, if the ESM Treaty is to be amended via an IGA or something else, then there is a request from more than 20 parliaments to make the euro group less intransparent. They do not even have a statute from the Eurogroup, where the finance ministers of the euro area countries meet. The average football club has a statute, but the euro group that spends hundreds of billions does not. The documents do not become public by default and you cannot go to any court because that eurogroup is not even formally part of the Union. So, if the ESM Treaty is amended, can the formal position of the eurogroup be regulated and in any case they become as transparent as the Ecofin or the General Affairs Council? That seems to me to be a minimum, for which the Dutch Government was also in favour. And we have more than 20 parliaments that have signed up for it. So please make a commitment, or we'll come up with a motion for that. Mr. Chairman. Then the Climate Agenda. Under the leadership of one of the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, Frans Timmermans, an ambitious Climate Agenda will be unveiled tomorrow. That's what's leaking all over it right now. There's 900 billion going to a transition fund. The focus of that fund is the transition to renewable energy. This is particularly true of Eastern European countries. If we understand correctly, the Netherlands would only be eligible for one project. Why is that? Instead of being here freewheeling about what will be revealed tomorrow, I would like to ask the government to give an appreciation of this plan for the ECV, the climate explorations that will be in Chamber next week. I would like to ask the government to deal with what it costs for the Netherlands and what it delivers, what climate gains it brings, and whether this is done a little well and efficiently. Then we can have a substantive discussion, and that can be done with the climate spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u131	A brief question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u132	Mr Omtzigt rightly says that we do not yet know what is in the climate plans, but it is clear that there are a number of obstacles that stand in the way of good climate policy. I have just recalled in my contribution that the cabinet in the First Chamber has received support for a ban on coal-fired power stations. That is absolutely right, but there is a European treaty, the Energy Charter Treaty, which makes it possible for companies, on the basis of the investment protection contained therein, to impose claims when parliaments decide on such measures. I would therefore like to know whether the CDA agrees with the request of the Party for Animals to denounce that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u133	I think it is a very relevant question. I would really like to ask the government to provide assurance that we cannot face major claims. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister how he works with other countries in this respect, because I assume other countries are also going off coal. Gas is quite another discussion, but everyone is going to phase out coal, so more European countries might have to deal with a similar issue, for example our German neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u134	My final question, Mr President. Thank you for this. I can tell Mr Omtzigt and also the Prime Minister that Italy has already left that treaty. I would think that we can do the same as the Netherlands, but we can also argue for this in a European context. Let us wait for the Prime Minister's answer, but I am glad that the CDA also has a critical attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u135	Carry on, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u136	I don't have to pay any more for the closure of coal plants than I have to, let's just say. So I'd like to hear from the government how we use our climate money efficiently. You know that's my hobby with electric cars, too. I would like to see them driving around the Netherlands, but not entirely subsidised, I say. And not on coal either. Anyway, the Prime Minister's on the coal train, I understand, so maybe the electricity can be used for that. Mr. Chairman. So I'd like to get that appreciation for Tuesday, because I think it's going to be a very fast process in Brussels. There will undoubtedly be good and interesting elements in this, but if the CDA Group sees a 900 billion plan, which is probably also partly financed with borrowed money, then we would also like to be very careful whether we get any value for money and whether this is being done reasonably. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven has already mentioned this: the situation in Malta is extremely worrying. I do not see it on the Council's agenda. The Prime Minister's office, Prime Minister Muscat, is now involved in the cover-up of the murder of Daphne Caruana Galizia. That's shocking. The Prime Minister's right hand, Keith Schembri, is mentioned by the key witness as the one who has given orders and leaked information. The Prime Minister of Malta has succeeded in preventing Parliament from meeting until his resignation in January. He managed not to give interviews. He's not tweeting anymore. That is the only positive thing; some politicians should. It's not functioning anymore. And what does he do? The only thing I think the office is doing is getting rid of certain evidence. How does the European Union deal with this? Would you like to include something about Malta in the final conclusion? And would you like to end all judicial cooperation with Malta immediately until the Prime Minister's office, under which all that power is attached, including in the area of judicial cooperation, has been cleaned up? Because if the information from that office goes directly to the mafia, to people who are suspected of one of the most horrible attacks on the free press we have in the European Union, then we need to take action against it. Mr. Chairman. In Albania there has been a major earthquake. What is the European Union doing now that this country has some need? We often have things against that country, but in this case there is a real need. Moreover, Albania is simply a neighbouring country of the Union. Finally, Mr President, the Brexit. There are elections on Thursday. That will be an exciting thing for the Euro Summit. There are two extremely unpopular candidates. It could be exciting. We'd like to have a brief reflection on... In response to what I hear the Prime Minister say outside the microphone: no, that does not have to be a reflection on the elections. For whoever wins, you will have to work with it; this is not Malta. But we would like to have a brief look at how this Brexit process is going to proceed, including at the European summit. It is rather clumsy that we are now talking about the Green Deal and that conclusions will probably be adopted on it, when we do not see the whole Green Deal. The same goes for the Brexit. With regard to the Green Deal, I kind of resent the Commission. The Brexit applies: the planning is as it is. Let me give you an example. In the UK it is reported that the UK will issue visas for European citizens if Boris Johnson wins the elections. One of the points I would like to have a reaction to is how we are going to respond to it and how we are going to ensure that such miserable plans do not continue. Finally, we have a conference on the future of Europe. According to the Prime Minister, does the opening of negotiations on a new treaty belong to the necessities of a conference on the future of Europe? How will the cabinet shape the active involvement of the Chamber in this conference? I think it would be a good idea to ensure that at an early stage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u138	Mr President, thank you. I say it more often here: the European Union must solve the major cross-border problems that countries cannot solve alone. This brings us to this summit, which is for the first time led by Mr Michel from Belgium. We wish him every success. First of all about the Multiannual Financial Framework, the European Multiannual Budget. The VVD supports the government's efforts to ensure that the Netherlands does not pay more to the European Union and at the same time to ensure that money goes to major cross-border problems such as migration, climate and security. Then I come to a question, which has just been asked by a colleague, about the transition mechanism. So I come to the climate. What exactly is the proposal? Is it going to cost extra money to buy off the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in particular those countries for their coal plants? How is that paid for? Does that fall under the MFF? Does it still fit underneath? I'd like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u139	Mr Mulder, the last four times we stood here to debate on the eve of an EU summit, started with the phrase: Europe must solve the major cross-border problems. That really is Mr Mulder's new mantra. Over and over, he's pumping that message in. I agree with him. It's also in the coalition agreement. Beautiful. Of course, this can only be done if you also have a budget where there is enough money to go into, as the VVD itself writes in its European election programme, the new priorities: security, migration, innovation and sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u140	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u141	That's not gonna happen right now, it seems. How does Mr Mulder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u142	Last week we had a technical briefing on this matter. We then saw that if we keep our payments equal and reprioritize them in that Multiannual Financial Framework, we and our contribution will not have to increase and we can at the same time do justice to the new priority. So that can and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u143	I also attended those technical briefings. We've had two of them together in the past few weeks. Those technical briefings were about the budgetary system. If you, as the Netherlands, were to fill out exactly what you want, you could do the big tasks with shifts and a consistent budget and spend less on agriculture and cohesion. But the reality is very different, and Mr Mulder knows this very well, because there are 26 other Member States talking to it. They create a tension that leads to the Finnish compromise, where we are not doing so much more money towards the new priorities, even though we are going to pay more. In other words, that double loss strategy. Why does Mr Mulder let that happen all the time? Why is it that the VVD is not prepared to achieve at least one of the two objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u144	You know, these negotiations have now lasted a year and a half. There might be another year, so we're gonna have to negotiate tough. Mr Verhoeven easily says: we must let that go; let us increase that budget. But what does not Mr Verhoeven say about what happens then? Then the Netherlands will have to pay an additional 2.5 to 3 billion. Then my question to Mr Verhoeven, on which he would like to cut back. Does he want to cut back on education because it is Europe's job to do so? Does he want to cut back on social security or pensions? He wants to raise taxes? Is that what Mr Verhoeven wants with his easy lyrics as "let it go"? I can't hear him about that. So if Mr Verhoeven is going to table a motion on this at a later date, I would like to have the same coverage on how the Netherlands is going to pay the EUR 2.5 billion. Then Mr Verhoeven can laugh. We're not laughing at $2.5 billion. So butter with the fish! I understand, because today we saw again that D66 wants us to stay with the European Union in the Constitution. I understand exactly why D66 is suggesting that. All kinds of unpopular proposals must be made by the European Union, and that is why you are going to cover yourself quickly in the Constitution. 'Cause imagine the people are gonna fight it. Yeah, you better get ahead of that! That is Mr Verhoeven in his last debate on the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u145	Mr Van Ojik has sat down again, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u146	Mr President, there is no need for opposition to this. The coalition can do this very well itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u147	That's right. That has been the opposition's strategy for two years: to stay a little behind and not to interfere too much. But I wish them every success with that. As a Chamber, we continue to check the cabinet and we also discuss it with each other. Mr. Mulder, I'm sorry, I didn't know you were getting mad. You're reacting very prickly to a perfectly normal question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u148	I stayed very calm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u149	Look, I'm not talking about filing a motion at all. Today we are discussing the strategy of the cabinet in a debate leading up to the European summit where the Multiannual Financial Framework, the European budget, is on the agenda. I'm asking the Cabinet for a clever strategy. Mr. Mulder doesn't have to ask me any questions, because I just stood there and then he could have asked them all. I now ask him whether the VVD is satisfied with the current situation on which we are at risk of heading: paying more, almost no modernisation and shift of priorities. That while the VVD has a completely different bet. In other words: the VVD doesn't bring in anything, doesn't do anything about it and leaves the cabinet a course that leads nowhere. Why does the VVD do that? Apart from D66 and all the political popularity or bogus anger you raised, just answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u150	We can see the ceiling's dropping. If D66 wants to raise the white flag at the moment, D66 has to know for himself; I repeat once more. If D66 now says "kabinet let that payment go," come up with a cover. Tell us how much less money can go to education, social security or pensions or what tax Mr Verhoeven wants to increase. I like to hear it. I haven't heard him yet. I've heard him say this four times over the past year, but there's no cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u151	What conclusion does Mr Mulder draw from the Finnish compromise proposal, which actually shows that we are moving a bit in the Dutch direction in terms of the size of the MFF, but that we are actually moving away from the Dutch commitment in terms of the content of the budget..................................................................................................................................................................... Isn't that how it was and how it was at least the last time the current MFF was negotiated? Doesn't he see coming that this is how it's going to go? What's he gonna do to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u152	I'm telling you, we have to keep negotiating. We have seen in the last negotiations that the longer it takes, the lower the ceiling. Let's just hang in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u153	Finally, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u154	The longer it takes, the lower the ceiling and the worse the budget looks from the perspective of people who want less money to agriculture and structural funds and more money to new themes. That's what the cabinet wants, that's what the VVD wants, that's what GroenLinks wants, and that's what D66 wants. Only now we are pursuing a strategy that brings us exactly the opposite, namely a less modern budget. The VVD, the self-proclaimed champion of realism in foreign politics.............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u155	If Mr Van Ojik also wants to raise the white flag and also says that more money must go to Europe, then I am curious what he wants to cut back on. It's $2.5 billion. Can this cabinet continue to negotiate instead of raising the white flag already? I think that's very unwise. That is not good for the support to the European Union either. If you look at surveys and opinion polls, as done by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, you will see that the Dutchman no longer wants to pay for the European Union. Especially if you want to maintain that support, you have to negotiate hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u156	Mr Mulder says: 1% and no further; we must leave it at that. But what does that mean for all those projects that are financed outside the budget, for example, a European Peace Facility or measures that follow from the Green Deal? Does the VVD say we're not gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u157	I say that we should mainly bring it under the MFF, so that it is clear what it costs and what it is paid for; do not keep it outside the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u158	The Peace Facility is outside the budget. So we're not gonna do that if it doesn't come under the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u159	I don't mean to say that, but the attempt has to be to get it under the ceiling. Well, that's pretty neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u160	The proposal is to keep it out of the budget. So we can be critical of that. We have a veto. So if that doesn't happen, isn't the VVD going to agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u161	We have often talked about vetos. It's better to find allies so you can deal with it together. You can always use a veto. You do not have to say that already, because then other countries will wait for the Netherlands. You'd better work with all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u162	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u163	Then I conclude that the 1% of which the VVD says 'up to here and no further' is actually butter soft.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u164	Those are the words of Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u165	Mr Mulder says: let us negotiate for a while. If the Prime Minister comes back all the way to the end of the song with a payment that may be slightly higher than 1%, did the Prime Minister fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u166	That's anticipating business. You shouldn't do that at all, because then you're gonna stand here and negotiate what you might possibly give away. The cabinet's commitment is clear. The VVD's behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u167	That's kind of an answer. So it's the bet. Mr Mulder just suggested a little bit that there is a result obligation here and that it is 1% and should remain. And anyone who asks a question about that is accused of walking with a white flag. In fact, Mr Mulder is doing the opposite: this is the stake, and we should not talk about it. That would be bad for our negotiating position. The Prime Minister is such a weak negotiator. If someone here says he might come up with another result, it's a mistake. A total lack of trust. A total lack of direction. It is a false promise to the Dutch electorate. And you'll see: at the end of the song, this prime minister returns with a higher amount than 1%. And then Mr Mulder shuts up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u168	We will see what the Prime Minister is coming back with, but the commitment of the Cabinet and the VVD has been clear for a year and a half since the Commission proposal was presented. In fact, it was already clear in the months before that. So the bet is clip-and-ready. We should not anticipate that now. We certainly should not say that we should increase the budget, and we should not indicate how we are going to cover it from the Dutch budget. Then there is the conference on the future of Europe. Mr Omtzigt mentioned them as well. By declaring this conference, you wonder what the European Union has learned from Brexit. Is it the intention of this conference to go back to European integration? Shouldn't the Brexit give us thought? Has Europe not gone too fast in certain places? If you come up with treaty proposals again, I don't know if they're coming, but I'd like to hear how the Prime Minister looks at it, will that help? Have we learned lessons from Brexit? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Then the trial. How are we gonna do this? We see that a lot of institutions are given a role, but not the national parliaments. They are the directly elected parliament, with a huge turnout, especially if you compare that with the turnout in the European Parliament. Will the Prime Minister be committed to a major role for national parliaments in this conference? Then we, as the Dutch Parliament, can also have control and exercise influence there. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. As far as the VVD is concerned, Europe gains legitimacy by solving the major cross-border problems, rather than implementing institutional reforms. Then Brexit. The elections will be next Thursday. Friday morning, we probably know who the new prime minister is. If the agreement then passes through Parliament, perhaps the most difficult part of the negotiations will begin, namely the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Are the Dutch interests well in sight? Do they have a place in the mandate that Mr Barnier is going to have? What can we expect? For the forthcoming negotiations, for the new relationship, it stands until 2020. If you deduct the weeks that Mr Barnier needs for his mandate, you have nine months left. Isn't that too short for a free trade agreement? If that's too short, what can you do at that time? What can we expect? If the United Kingdom wants to extend that period, it will have to do so before 1 July 2020, i.e. within six months. Don't we just get the no-deal scenario back on the table from Friday afternoon? Mr Barnier will undoubtedly say: the clock is ticking, sir... Whoever's the prime minister. How does the Prime Minister see this? I'd like a response to that. Does he also see possibilities to limit the damage? For example, in terms of systems, can the Netherlands cooperate better with British customs to recognise each other's inspections, so that the Brexit becomes as soft as possible? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u169	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u170	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u171	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked and actually limited on the subject of the European Council and it was a kind of general Question Time Europe. In that last chapter I will try to operate the Chamber as well as possible and in the first I will even try to be complete. Then I will start with a topic that is on the agenda this week, and that is, of course, related to the Multiannual Financial Framework. Looking at the current MFF and what is now there is a great deal of modernisation in the Finnish proposals. We are also committed to modernising the MFF, and we will continue to do so. We want to move towards an ambitiously modernised Multiannual Financial Framework and make room for new priorities, such as innovation, research, climate, security and migration. As far as we are concerned, it is not just a matter of more or less budget. It is, of course, also a question of modernising the content of, for example, the common agricultural policy, the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, with a stronger focus on innovation. In addition, it is not the case that we necessarily want to reach 1%, which is suggested here and there. What we want to come up with is not an increase in payments. That's the deal. So it may well be that that 1% is a little higher, but then eventually the correction will have to be larger. So it's about that combination. If it is higher than 1%, for example 1.01% or 1.02%, then the correction received by the Netherlands will also have to be higher than the current correction, so that a rise in payments is avoided. That is the purpose when it comes to the financial side of the budget. I hear everywhere saying that 1% should come out. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's the cabinet's commitment. I say to Mr Verhoeven that I await the discussions of the four chairmen of the political groups to amend the coalition agreement on this point, and as long as that is not the case, I consider D66's contribution to be a general view of that party, but not the view of that party within the framework of this coalition. That is actually the most important thing I want to say about the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u172	Then this is the end of this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u173	There's something else I can say about conditioning. I agree with Mr Asscher that we should focus on conditionality. It's in there, too. We are looking at enhanced conditionality in terms of migration, rule of law and structural reform. You can also see some of these things returning to the proposals made by the Finnish Presidency and earlier from the Commission. This also requires effective incentives. For example, when it comes to the rule of law, I think that the Finnish proposals are well secured, in accordance with the Dutch commitment. The Netherlands will continue to do so. Mr Omtzigt can say that the positions of countries are indeed far apart, but we still have some time. I think that this week the European Council will be primarily a matter of doing good to their supporters, but that the real substantive discussions will only begin from January. The PVV asked about all those things that seem to be outside the budget. For this purpose, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, the MFF should be applied as much as possible. If things are outside the MFF, then it must be things that are already outside the MFF and not new things, because otherwise there would be an increase in the Dutch costs for Europe via a detour. That is in response to all the questions about the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u174	Brief question, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u175	Whether I can be as short as the Prime Minister has done this whole block...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u176	You're really good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u177	Okay, I'm happy with this trust. The Prime Minister says that there is indeed modernisation in the Finnish compromise proposal. Of course, that is the case, but the question is whether there can be a movement whereby a little less money is allocated to the MFF but a little more is being done for agriculture and a little less for the new priorities. That is what I thought I saw in the Finnish compromise proposal. The question to the Prime Minister is whether he sees it. If he sees that, I'm assuming he thinks that's the wrong development. Then the question is how he's going to try to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u178	In the end, two situations are relevant. That is the current seven-year MFF and the Finnish proposal. Looking at that Finnish proposal, I really believe that this will lead to modernisation. What happens here and there is that it is compared to the Commission's proposal, but of course that is not a proposal. They have, of course, said what they think, but in the end the Presidency must come up with a proposal. And the Presidency's proposal contains a great deal of modernisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u179	On the question of whether there is much or little modernisation, one can differ from one another, but if you compare what was at the start of the European Commission with what the Finns are proposing, then you can see that there is now more money going to agriculture and less money going to the new issues. Isn't that right? That has to do with the fact that it's a compromise, doesn't it? And a compromise means: if there is less money in the MFF, there is more going to the traditional sectors, I say it very simply, and if there is more in the MFF, there is more room for modernisation. The Prime Minister is well aware of this, because that is what happened five or six years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u180	We can also go to 2% or 3% of the national income for Europe; then you have a lot of modernisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u181	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u182	The Commission proposal was based on a very large increase in the contribution. Yeah, so I can modernise too. I don't think that's such a relevant starting point. The starting point that the Finns have laid down is the negotiating box on which discussions are to take place in the near future. We don't like the ceiling enough yet. In any case, we believe that there should be a correction mechanism. Our political position is: no increase in payments without further lowering the ceiling. We certainly want a correction mechanism. I believe that the current MFF is indeed undergoing considerable modernisation in many areas. You should not compare it with the Commission's proposal, because I would like to say again that it was based on a very hysterical increase in the costs of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u183	If I may, Mr President, the comparison with the Commission proposal is relevant because it gives an insight into the way in which the process of negotiating the MFF is going. Really, I don't have to tell the Prime Minister, because he knows that very well. If you want a lower ceiling for the MFF, it is not of course 2% or 3%. The Prime Minister knows that, too. This is a margin between 1.1% and 1%, which is about the margin within which the debate takes place. If you want a lower ceiling, it will in practice be at the expense of modernisation. That happened last time, and it seems to be happening again. The question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u184	I object to this, because Mr Van Ojik compares it again with the Commission's proposal. This was based on a very substantial increase in costs. That's not real. Then we can all modernise. I am really comparing it with the current MFF and the Finnish proposal. That is still a significant increase. It is actually going from 1% to 1.04%, and I am going to look at my officials or I am going to look at them; they are nodding because the Finnish proposal brings the EDF down; that is 1.07%. I give them 0.03%, because we have 1% without EDF and 1.03% with EDF. So the difference between us and the Finnish proposal is still 0.04%. That is still a considerable amount, but although it is much lower than that in the Commission proposal, they have managed to modernise considerably.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u185	D66 gives the Prime Minister an inadequate policy today and also says that he has a stupid strategy, especially on how much modernisation you are achieving. My question to the Prime Minister would be: is this, in his view, sufficient modernisation? Then you can say that it is a general view of D66, but it was not a general view; it was a view in this debate. If there's no better defense, I'm inclined to think D66's right. If this is the whole ambition, then that budget will be... Yes, there is modernisation in the Finnish proposal, but we want more from the Netherlands, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u186	We want to avoid a sharp increase. There is also a great deal of money to be spent on education, defence and other matters in the coming years; we must also continue to invest in our public sector. With the current Finnish proposal, where there is no or hardly any correction mechanism, phasing out, but a considerable increase in the ceiling, you are really talking about a very substantial additional contribution from the Netherlands. I object to that. We are therefore saying that this should be reduced further and/or the correction should be permanent and of such a level that it does not ultimately lead to an increase in payments. At the same time, I believe that the Finnish proposal is a considerable modernisation compared to the current MFF. That's true. What they want to add to innovation, research, climate, security and migration is really an improvement on the current MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u187	That's true. I see these changes compared to the current MFF. My question was whether the Dutch Government would consider this to be a sufficient improvement in the budget. I would be inclined to think that we should have a greater ambition, regardless of the expenditure ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u188	Certainly, we have two ambitions in the discussion. We have talked enough about spending. I agree with Asscher that we are going to talk about innovation. That is where we would like more than the Finnish proposal says. I would like to mention, for example, the 10 billion extra to the CAP. We don't necessarily have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u189	Exactly. Then I do not think it is enough to say that I am getting an incompetence from the coalition partner; that is a view that I shall continue to ignore until the group chairman repeats it. We have just heard that Verhoeven is being replaced by his group chairman. So let's assume for a moment that it has not been properly distributed. Then it would be a good thing for you or for you to say "I acknowledge it; it is not enough" or for you to reply to him. It must be more than: it is a general remark that I ignore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u190	No, I understood Mr Verhoeven so that he said: The Netherlands is too committed to limiting the increase in payments. Then I say: that is the coalition agreement I am implementing, which also signed D66. And if at that point D66 wants to change the coalition agreement, then so be it. The coalition agreement is the property of the four group chairmen. Then I await an invitation from D66, from the four chairmen of the political groups, and possibly an amendment to the coalition agreement. I don't see that happening, by the way. But that's the situation. As long as that does not happen, I have to deal with the existing coalition agreement, which provides for no increase in payments combined with as much innovation and modernisation as possible. I agree with Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u191	It is very formalistic to say right away: yes, the coalition agreement. The text of the coalition agreement contains one sentence on the Multiannual Financial Framework. It's like this. "The European budget needs to be modernised, focusing more on innovation, research, climate and sustainability." That's what the coalition agreement says. And that is what I stand for, in this debate and in all previous debates. Then we can play the game of the higher payoff. That is a very complicated discussion, because if Europe does more, it will eventually be possible for the Netherlands to do less in these areas and win. That's a long-term discussion. If we are going to bring that back to the faintness that the chairman of the group should come and read out the coalition agreement, then you will not take seriously the point I make here, at least in agreement with three parties; a minority in the Chamber. I'm just making that point serious. And of course we have to deal with the fact that if we table a motion, that motion will not make it. I know that, too. So I'm fighting with a minority for a strong modernisation. I'm fighting for that modernisation. The Prime Minister talks all the time about "the payment should be less; not a penny more," which is all the time appealing to the feeling of the Dutchman that Brussels is only sucking up money, while at the same time Mulder says: large cross-border resources. That's the point I'm making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u192	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u193	That has nothing to do with the group chairmen. This simply has to do with the strategy that we have to pursue in order to modernise as much as possible. Say something about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u194	I think we should modernise. I'll get to that in a minute. Mr Verhoeven wrongly quotes the coalition agreement. Because not only does the coalition agreement have a text, but it also has a financial annex. And that financial annex is leading. The financial annex says what we're going to do. And that actually doesn't mean an increase in payments. Sorry, there is. I'm dealing with the financial framework. Now the government party D66 could also have chosen to stand in front of that part of the coalition agreement and say: we accept that we have signed a government agreement with no increase in payments. I do not hear Mr Verhoeven say that. He says: I'm going to try with minorities and so on. That is all right, I have no objection to it, but I would like to highlight for my part: if there are insufficient distributions, fine, but I am sticking to the coalition agreement and I accept Mr Verhoeven as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u195	Mr Verhoeven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u196	I like to stick to the coalition agreement. We are talking about a seven-year budget, of which about six and a half years are excluded from the government agreement. That's what I'm gonna say. Let's not argue so small. In the Netherlands and in Europe, we currently have a view that there are a number of major challenges at the gates of Europe. I mentioned a number of them. There are geopolitically diverse fireplaces in the world that we all have to fight against. I call a technological power struggle between the United States and China over the heads of Europe, which we are looking at. Should we have such a small discussion that we are talking about the coalition agreement for the next 18 months? I take that very seriously. I didn't say we were going over that. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that he is going to be more committed to the modernisation that is needed than he is committed to this maximum contribution from the Netherlands. I do not hear enough vision of a solid Europe in a world that is incredibly changing and making people insecure. Why don't you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u197	I have made three major speeches on this, in Berlin, in Zurich and in Strasbourg. They're all appreciated by D66. I thought that was a good speech myself. They included, for example, the geopolitical role of the Union. I'll be right back to talk about that. I thought that was good points from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u198	Okay, then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u199	However, I do not believe that, while I sometimes avoid the word 'vision', my vision of Europe cannot have been seen by Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u200	Yes, very briefly, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u201	Finally. I have indeed listened to those three speeches with great pleasure and a touch of admiration, with ample enough. I said that too, because I am a generous man and have often praised the Prime Minister enough for his position in Europe. I find it so shaky and so skinny here in this room. That appeals with a grocery mentality to a number of people who only think Brussels is bad, while Europe in the world needs to stay on its feet. This requires modernisation, innovation and defence cooperation. I would like to hear our Prime Minister, not only in speeches in foreign capitals, but also here in the House of Representatives, talk about this full of energy. Then I'll give him a shot. Now it is indeed, provoked by Mr Asscher, an inadequate strategy for this strategy: a poor grocery mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u202	Yeah, it's all good. I'm fine with it. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u203	It's cozy in the coalition, Chairman! That much is clear. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he thinks will happen if we get a higher payment, which will indeed be at the expense of public expenditure on which we ourselves decide. What does he think is the consequence of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u204	That is, of course, asking about the familiar road. What I just said is that the coalition agreement is clear: no increase in payments. Two: the coalition agreement is also clear that we must do everything we can to modernise. Verhoeven is absolutely right about that. What Verhoeven then blames me is that I am not talking enough about this. I'm denying that; I'm talking about that. I shall also raise a few points in this debate, also invited by Mr Verhoeven, e.g. the geopolitical issues that are on the rise, and which Europe really is, I agree with him that I should have an answer to. What I find objectionable is that D66 is not going to be part of the signature of the coalition agreement, namely: no increase in payments. It would have been fancy if they did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u205	I think that the basis for European cooperation is really reducing when you see that we have to pay more and you also see that spending is not always going well and that there is a lot of money left. In this sense, it is also not good for those who call for more European cooperation. The Prime Minister could have said the same thing, but okay. My question is this. The multiannual framework is coming up. Just so we're clear, isn't that where things are going to be financed outside? That's just what it is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u206	That was also Mrs Maeijer's question. She said, there are all kinds of pots; how about that? For that, sometimes things are already outside the MFF. If that's the case, it already is. What we don't want is to be messed up, so now things are being placed outside the MFK that weren't outside. So if things are now covered by the MFF, they will continue to fall under it. So you're not going to artificially try to imagine the Dutch contribution lower because you're creating new things outside the MFK. If you do, it's got to fit inside a ceiling somewhere. Otherwise, you'll have another budgetary problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u207	Let me draw your attention to this: I know the example of the European Peace Facility. The proposal is now to finance it outside the MFF. My question was also: what other people are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u208	I wouldn't know which proposals... Let me put it this way. If there are proposals to finance things outside the MFF that are now covered by the MFF ceiling, we can do so for us, but we will look at this in the context of the total contribution from the Netherlands. This will prevent you from messing around in a situation where you are secretly spending more money outside the MFF, because you will have to account for that in the budgets as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u209	So the Peace Facility is the only example of a project now on the table that is proposed to finance it outside the MFF?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u210	I do not know what is being proposed; we will see that in the negotiations in the near future. But for the Netherlands it will always apply that if proposals are made to create funds outside the MFF, other than the funds that are already there, we will always look at them as a function of "do we think that is a good idea and should it not really just be under the MFF?'. What if we think it's a good idea? Then we need to be transparent about it and then it should not lead to a higher payout through the back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u211	Yeah, that's all nice, of course, but those negotiations have been going on for a year and a half and I'd really like that transparency right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u212	The negotiations are not yet a step further. We are now at the Finns' first negotiating box. Now, Thursday and Friday, we're going to say hello to our own supporters. The real negotiations don't start until next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u213	Okay, but what have we been doing for the past year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u214	Nothing at this point, nothing. Except for all sorts of interesting proposals. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to climate policy. Perhaps I can make it immediately practical towards Mr Omtzigt where it is a first appreciation of the proposals that are expected from the European Commission tomorrow. I would like to propose that we do this on the broad lines, because we really need to take time to do so. Usually it takes six weeks. We take this appreciation into account in the main thrust of the European Council report. That will, I think, come at the latest Monday morning and will then be well in time for Tuesday's debate. Later on, a deeper, substantive appreciation comes through the normal channels. We're really gonna need more time for that, because I'm expecting a lot of tomorrow, if you're gonna follow pre-publication in the papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u215	We expect that too, but we expect that something has already changed between Brussels and The Hague. I very much appreciate seeing that first appreciation, including some kind of idea about what the impact could be on the Netherlands and its distribution. The whole appreciation will indeed take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u216	Verhoeven and Van Ojik have both rightly drawn attention to the importance of reaching agreement on climate neutrality 2050 at this European Council. We're gonna do the best we can for that. I can't guarantee that. Indeed, three countries still have concerns about this. Last week we also had a meeting in Madrid at a European club, in the margins of COP25, with the European countries present and Von der Leyen and Michel, who had just begun. Of course, we know there are concerns. The Prime Minister of Poland and others were there. There is an extreme effort to see whether we can bridge it and succeed in bringing Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary with us. Slovakia from the V4 is already participating. At first Estonia also had doubts about climate neutrality 2050, but now follows. We're gonna do the best we can for that. I can't say much more about it. There have also been very bilateral talks. I've spoken to a number of people about it myself. Of course, the JTM, the proposal for a just transition mechanism, which has been discussed in the Commission, may also help with this. This also applies, of course, to the fact that the real implementation of this must depend again on the MFF discussion. This summit does not yet lend itself to talking about size and modality. I hope we can all come together after all. A lot of questions have been asked about all the rumors about the Green Deal. I would like to refer to my first answer. On Monday we will try to give an appreciation on the broad lines and later on on a more comprehensive basis. The question of some of you was whether I am still aware of the urgency of this issue. Oh, yeah. I did that again last week in my contribution during the COP25. Then the train. In response to Verhoeven, we do not yet know what the Commission is going to propose in the Green Deal in the area of railways. But it is well known from the cabinet and this coalition that we want to strengthen the international rail system. This must be done in a European context. That's what the Cabinet is working on. In addition, the government intends to promote investment in rail infrastructure through European funds, coupled with the removal of barriers. We're gonna see what they're coming up with, but for the Cabinet, it's clear that we think this is important. There were a number of questions from Mrs Leijten and others about all kinds of rumors about the Green Deal. I really don't want to go into that now, because then I'm going to respond to a moving target. I would prefer the cabinet, as I have just promised, to be structured on Monday's broad lines and then to respond extensively to the proposals. But I have taken note of what Mrs Leijten and others have said about the rumours about the Green Deal. I don't want to respond to that myself, because then I'm going to respond to first rumors again. Mr Asscher asked about the fund. I had the impression that Mr Asscher thought about that just transition mechanism that it would also benefit the Netherlands. We have to look at that, but it's not obvious. I think that the Commission's intention, and immediately Timmermans', is to create something that takes fair account of the fact that a number of countries, such as Poland and others, also from the history of the Soviet bloc, often have over-representation of coal power stations. That is the case with Poland; in Hungary it is different. This often had to do with where these minerals were; in Poland that is very often coal. This also means that such a country must make a very big journey to 2030 and 2050. That's what JTM's for. Once again, we are going to talk about this in detail. My guess is that it's not exactly something we can make use of. Then there was Mrs Ouwehand's question about Mercosur. It is already the source of all evil, it seems, even though it still has to come into force. I still believe that it is important to sit down with these countries and in this way also have a means of exerting pressure on these countries in terms of human rights, climate and deforestation to discuss these matters. The EU and Mercosur confirm their commitments under the multilateral environmental agreements, such as the Paris Climate Agreement, but also the Convention on Biodiversity. The agreement contains an article on the importance of sustainable forest management, trade in sustainable products and promoting the involvement of indigenous peoples. It also includes measures to combat illegal logging and related trade. So I would take the view that Mercosur will ultimately strengthen the dialogue and increase the pressure on these issues. Finally, on biomass. This is not the subject of discussion at this European Council. We have to wait and see whether there is anything in the Commission's proposals. I think that the more general discussion on the advantages and disadvantages of biomass is not entirely in this debate. That's just in response to the many questions about Green Deal and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u217	Very briefly, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u218	As concrete as the Prime Minister can be about that coal fund that will be for Poland and perhaps some other countries, he goes so much past my point of 100 billion. Moreover, this has already been a Government Juicer, because there is already a written consultation on this issue. My question was: if that is to be used to achieve CO reduction, then there must be measures to achieve the CO reduction. It should not be a new subsidy pot for the old fossil giants who, with CO storage or biomass, are again getting all kinds of money for non-CO measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u219	In a general sense, at all. By the way, I ran into CCS, CO storage, hidden in a subtlety. CCS is not a technique rejected in advance for the Netherlands. Even GroenLinks has that in its plans, so we have to take it very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u220	But that doesn't reduce CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u221	No, but it does lead to a mitigation of the issues, when I hear CCS in that clause. But otherwise, I think I can agree with what Mrs Leijten is saying, with this adjunction on CCS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u222	The Prime Minister says that the plans have yet to become concrete, so I do not respond to rumors. But the European Commission itself has tweeted that the plan will consist of new growth for the economy, for man and for the planet. That is why I asked the Prime Minister if he knows what the ecological deficit of the European Union is currently. He hasn't answered that yet. The idea that the economy can grow infinitely on a planet that doesn't grow along is a very costly, crucial error of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u223	The urgent administrative advice I received was to avoid having a detailed discussion with Mrs Ouwehand on the definition of ecological deficit. That is really too complicated for me, and that needs to be discussed in a different discussion with smarter people. This is the official advice, and I follow that, because I think they're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u224	I appreciate that the Prime Minister is honest about what he has said on his note and what his officials have advised him, but of course I will not let him get away with it that easily, he knows that. Look, we have a limited amount of resources that we can use every year without damaging the earth or living on the puff of future generations. Now we're out of these resources worldwide every year before December 31st. Somewhere in August, we're going through it all over the world. The European Union is already through on 10 May. So as of May 11th this year, we have lived on the puff of next generations. That amounts to an ecological deficit of 65%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u225	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u226	And that is why I have called on the Prime Minister to at least try to restore this mistake to the European Commission tomorrow and to say: dear people, nice, a climate plan, but you cannot continue to think that we should focus on economic growth. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u227	No, because it's not on the agenda the day after tomorrow. We are not going to discuss the Commission's proposals in the European Council the day after tomorrow. We will only talk about the goal of being climate neutral by 2050. But the Commission's proposals, which will be presented tomorrow, are not on the agenda of the European Council on Thursday and Friday. That gives Mrs Ouwehand, and on my side someone with an IQ of 200, namely Mr Wiebes, the opportunity to talk about the ecological deficit together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u228	I'll take that as an invitation. But the Prime Minister can't take it off with that either. I think the Prime Minister should remember what he said at the 2016 National Climate Summit. Then he himself said: the time of waiting is over. So I expect this cabinet to say proactively towards the European Commission: at least in a climate plan the following three things must be stated. No more agricultural subsidies to global warming. Use that money to reform agriculture. Don't call biomass sustainable anymore. And don't make trade deals that go directly against your own climate goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u229	I hear all kinds of things that aren't cabinet policy, so we're not gonna bring them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u230	But then the Prime Minister will have to admit that he doesn't meet his climate goals at national level, for which he's got quite a slap on the wrist from the judge? He doesn't achieve his natural goals, for which he also got quite a tap from the judge as far as nitrogen is concerned. And at European level, he doesn't want to make a fuss about it either. What is the message in the direction of the Dutch people, who are begging for climate action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u231	Well, I think the Dutch are also begging to live their lives, and that they hope that we will not take over everything that Mrs Ouwehand proposes tomorrow. What does the Cabinet do? We have come to a climate agreement, with broad support. This leads to a 49% reduction in CO emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. We would like the ambition in Europe to be higher, but other countries should also be involved. In the end, we are going to do what the European ambition is going to be. It is currently at 40% reduction. If you carried out all the European plans, you'd be at 45%. So I think that reduction will also be higher than 45%. And again, we hope we can boost it to 55%. We are working together in a coalition with neighbouring countries with similar economies, also competitive, to achieve a higher goal. That's government policy. Inside, we are doing everything we can to ensure that it is affordable and feasible, and that people can also live their lives. They shouldn't leave the car tomorrow, cancel their vacation or sell their house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u232	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u233	We need to make sure that we do it step by step, across a broad front with broad support. That is the government's view, and that is our national climate agreement. And in Europe, of course, we are striving for a climate approach that is fully supportive of our ambitions. The Netherlands is truly seen internationally as one of the forerunners in both the approach, with broad support, and in our ambitions. And I wouldn't quite recognize myself in what Mrs. Old Hand is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u234	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u235	What Mrs. Ouwehand says here, a judge said. The Netherlands can lead the way with its climate ambitions, but the judge has simply ruled that the Netherlands is not achieving its goals. And it's worse than before because the economy was growing. Wiebes said: yes, that's actually a bit of a setback for my climate goals. Mr Wiebes, with the IQ on which the Prime Minister has just bragged a little bit, has already understood that. I would say: do so at European level, because you need to get the rest. I honestly don't understand something. The cabinet is struggling with the big problem of nitrogen. It is inevitable that agriculture will have to reform. Why does the Prime Minister not use this opportunity to say that these agricultural subsidies, 365 billion for the next seven years, should be used for this much-needed transition in agriculture? Why doesn't he say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u236	Because the cabinet is looking at that more nuancedly than Mrs Ouwehand at the moment. It does not have enough reasoning on this point. We think differently about this. I'd like to go a long way with her. I do not think that the current way in which agricultural subsidies are used is always sensible, and that commitment is not good for Dutch agriculture either. Dutch agriculture is very innovative and makes limited use of European subsidies, much more limited than agriculture in countries such as France, Ireland, Austria and others. We do this differently, because we have a very innovative agriculture. I would also like this whole policy to be designed in such a way that it continues to stimulate these innovations as much as possible. And yes, we also have a big problem in the area of nitrogen, but that is a separate area, where we also, of course, consider what needs to be done. We're very busy working on that. We do not have anything else to do with this issue these weeks. That's always a combination of natural recovery and nitrogen reduction. In this combination, we are looking for a good package of measures, but of course we have already heard about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u237	Yes. Then I suggest... Last question, Mrs Ouwehand. He's just getting started! Are you sure? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u238	Yeah, last question. The Prime Minister talks a lot about the farmers. He talks a lot to farmers. That transition in agriculture is inevitable. I was wondering what happened to the farmers when he said: but wait, I asked for that Mercosur agreement myself. Farmers are very angry that they have to change and that products from Brazil, where toxins are allowed which are no longer allowed in Europe and where animal welfare requirements are much lower, can simply be sold on the Dutch market. Or didn't the Prime Minister have the guts to say to those farmers: yes, yes, it's all very difficult, but I'm just gonna open the door to that shit from Brazil at the border, you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u239	No, but we don't. The Mercosur Convention contains all kinds of provisions and safeguards. I think it is very important that the biggest trade agreement that Europe is about to conclude, larger than with Japan, namely Mercosur, should contribute to further economic growth, in an inclusive way, both on the Latin American side and on the European side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u240	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u241	Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u242	Oh, Mrs. Maeijer had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u243	About agriculture? I'm sorry, about the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u244	Do you have a question on this point, Mrs Maeijer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u245	You may be surprised, but I wanted to ask you a question about climate neutrality. That is not entirely my portfolio, but the Prime Minister is going to make the deal in the next few days, or at least that is the aim of the Netherlands to make Europe the first climate-neutral continent in 2050. Now Minister Blok writes in response to a written round that the European Commission has made an assessment of the investments needed to make the economy climate neutral. That should cost EUR 520 billion to EUR 575 billion per year, if I understand correctly. My question is, who's gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u246	In the Netherlands, of course, we simply have our own climate plans. Because we are doing this in a very sensible way, with broad support, even here in the Chamber, we can do so with an affordable account, which has a limited impact, also on purchasing power. In other countries it will be different. There's gonna be more there. I have just mentioned Poland, with the large numbers of coal power stations. That is why we are also looking at how we can help such countries make that transition in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u247	The question remains, of course, who will pay for it. Who is the account deposited with? With the Netherlands? With the Dutch taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u248	No, for the Netherlands, we contribute through the MFF. We just had that discussion. We do not want to increase our costs compared to the current MFF. We do, of course, take inflation into account, but we do not want any further increase. That's the coalition agreement. We also have the Climate Agreement in the Netherlands and the amounts are also known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u249	But those 520 billion to 575 billion euros per year are very specific amounts. As far as I know, they are not included in the multiannual budget, or I am reading something wrong. But who's gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u250	These are 28 Member States. I do not know exactly how these amounts are broken down according to the Commission. We will study the proposals carefully if the Green Deal is there, but for the Netherlands we have a Climate Agreement. This brings us to 49% by 2030. We have the ambition to be climate neutral twenty years later. And we now have a whole plan for the next ten years with a move forward to the next twenty years, with broad support here in society and in civil society, but I think that ever since we managed to correct the somewhat messy image of March in a broad-based climate agreement in May/June, you can say: also with broad support in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u251	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u252	Mr. Chairman. I'll get to Brexit. We have to wait and see how it goes on Thursday. I do not think that much is going to happen at this European Council in terms of Brexit. In the end, we're gonna have to see what the British are gonna do. We have to wait and see if they're gonna agree to the deal that's on the table right now. This must be done by 31 January 2020 at the latest, as we know. Once that ratification has taken place, we must start negotiations quickly on the future relationship, in which we, I say to Mr Mulder, strive for a treaty as broad and ambitious as possible and we want to minimise the damage as much as possible. Customs cooperation is part of this. That is also included in the political statement, so that will be discussed. But things are going to change, of course, because in principle they are going to leave the customs union and the internal market, with some reservations, but, of course, they are going to get out at the heart of it. This means that there will also be checks that are not available at the moment. Then he asked, "Can you do that in nine or ten months?" That is very ambitious. I'll give you that. It says in the withdrawal agreement that the transitional period can be extended once for a maximum of two years, so you are talking about an extension until 31 December 2022 at the latest. Such a decision should then be taken before 1 July next year, with the agreement of both parties in the Joint Committee. The current government in England has said that we do not want that. We will therefore have to wait and see what the results of the elections are and what they will do afterwards. In the end, on the basis of the mandate and the position of the United Kingdom, what will they do in the negotiations? Looking at what's possible in that tight time until, let's say, the end of next year. It is impossible for me to speculate on the content of this now. I agree with him that this is complicated, but it does not make much sense to speculate about it now, based on conceivable modalities of the outcome of the elections and the British Government's post-election attitude. Another question from Mr Mulder was: have we sufficiently guaranteed the future EU-UK relationship in Barnier's new mandate? I'm just gonna take a look at what he said. We have always tried from the first moment to bring Dutch interests for the future relationship actively into the whole process in Brussels. We are also being listened to because we belong to the small group of Member States that are going to be hit hardest. I also think that they are well placed in the guidelines for the political declaration, but also in the political statements on the future relationship as it is. This is the basis for the mandate for the actual negotiations. We therefore assume that Dutch interests will be well protected, but we will closely monitor this and continue to bring Dutch interests in through all channels. Of course, all this is done by the Commission only after the UK has also left the Union, so after 31 January or as much earlier as England would have been out with the internal discussion. The reality is that things are going to change. I think we need to be clear about that. It won't be the same. Mr Omtzigt asked whether there would be a stricter immigration policy. I have also heard that after a Brexit they intend to check more closely at the border. This can also mean that EU citizens will need a visa. Whether or not it is, is not yet known. We'll have to wait for that rash first. Then there is always reciprocity. So if they tease us, we tease them. That's the nasty part. So I hope that all of that is going to be okay, but I have also heard the rumors at that point. I can say that about the Brexit, and unfortunately not much more than in a speculative sense, because we do not yet know what the outcome of the elections is. Then there is the conference on the future of the European Union. I do agree with Omtzigt and Mulder that active involvement of national parliaments should be part of this. If there is an interest from the Dutch Parliament in participating in such a conference, which is still to be set up, then of course we are going to convey that interest. I am listening to this in this debate; I think that makes sense. I can also imagine Parliament taking the initiative independently of what we do. Let me look at Mr Omtzigt if he has a question about the conference or the previous point of the Brexit. I might as well finish the point of the conference first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u253	Yeah, it's better to finish your point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u254	They also asked about the planning and the design. How are you gonna get the citizens involved? That was a question from Mr Verhoeven, among others. First of all, there is no proposal. I expect the Commission to come forward with a proposal in the coming weeks. You can say that, given the dynamics, it is obvious that such a conference will eventually be organised and that the European Council will then want to play a role in this. The planning is also unknown. At least it has been said by Von der Leyen that it should be possible in a period of about two years. For the cabinet, a few things are very important. Firstly, the institutional balance sheet: the three EU institutions must participate on an equal footing. Secondly, it must be a transparent process with active involvement for parliaments, if they so wish. As far as we are concerned, the strategic agenda of the European Council will determine the priorities for the coming years. The Netherlands also sees such a conference in this context: how do we ensure that we can achieve those priorities? This includes the Dutch EU governance agenda, as I say to Mr Omtzigt, in terms of transparency, better legislation, enforcement, rule of law and so on. As is well known, the Netherlands is not in favour of treaty change. So that's what we're gonna bring into those discussions. The phrase "ever closer union" is without legal obligations. There is a motion by Mr Bishop asking for that text to be removed from the Treaty. That will then have to wait for treaty changes, and I think that would open up a huge can of worms. That is why the Netherlands is not in favour of this. But if there were ever to be a treaty amendment, this is an element that we will naturally consider in the context of the Bishop's motion. Furthermore, this is, of course, an evocative outcry of the Union and not a policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u255	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answer to the question of how we are to be involved in that conference. We shall then get back to that as soon as possible when something more concrete is in store. I get that. A word about the Brexit: could we have an appreciation at the end of December, if the Conservatives win, about what will become about the commitment of the Netherlands? 'Cause then it's gonna be really fast. I know this is a "if-dan question," but if people go for the Brexit, I want to know how we don't need visas. I believe that we should be able to travel visa-free to Northern Ireland and not to the rest of the United Kingdom. So that's gonna be a very, very interesting thing. I would also like to know how we guarantee other matters for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u256	My information is that they can unilaterally decide on a visa. I don't think that's part of the future relationship. So I guess that's out of the question. Then there will always be reciprocity. Furthermore, I can serve Mr. Omtzigt immediately. The Dutch priorities are: a broad and deep partnership, with in addition to trade in goods and services also the broad socio-economic agenda of fisheries, transport, and internal and external security. In this context, cross-sectoral issues are important, given the close economic links: maximum market access, maximum level playing field, flexible customs procedures and robust dispute resolution, with a specific focus on the level playing field, the protection of humans, animals, plants and the environment. Fishing is a primary Dutch interest. In addition, we are working together with a number of other affected countries such as Spain, France, Belgium and Denmark. Internal security is very important, also because of the close cooperation with the United Kingdom. There are also the aviation and transport sectors, services, social security coordination, family law, data traffic and data protection. These are, as far as we can now estimate, broadly shared interests within the EU-27. The Netherlands has highlighted them in ever-changing coalitions, such as fisheries, and will continue to do so. So this is the Dutch playing field as we see it on Brexit, should they of course decide on 31 January or so much earlier to say yes to what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u257	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u258	Then there's the WTO. It is also on the agenda. That is why this reform is important. The rules are outdated, and then it makes sense that, to some extent, dispute settlement is also under discussion. But that does not mean, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, that it does not have to be completely destroyed. You really need to be careful not to throw the kid away with the bathwater. On the contrary, it is an important mechanism, also in order to comply properly with multilateral rules. The Netherlands also has an interest in this. It is therefore also in the Dutch interest that the United States should continue to support that mechanism. So we will see how we can find, together with the US, a solution that secures or makes possible an independent appeal body that makes binding rulings as it now works. That is really very important, because then you talk about predictability, but also about de-escalation if there are trade tensions. In this respect, I also believe that the Netherlands, the United States and the European Union have many common interests, including in terms of a level playing field with China. So that's not just about us. Then there is also a short eurozone summit. There were also a few questions about this, especially from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u259	Then I'd wrap this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u260	I suspect that Mr Ojik would like to ask a question on the previous point, the WTO. That is a completely different point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u261	Is that right, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u262	Yes, I can confirm that, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is quite right about that. The Prime Minister has said on occasion in the past: the Americans have quite a point; Trump has quite a point, especially when it comes to dispute resolution. He himself referred to it as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u263	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u264	So I was wondering what exactly is the point where we support the Americans and what we say: that must change. That's not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u265	I was more generally concerned with the point that the high miss of multilateralism, that we all sing here, the VVD, GroenLinks, most of the parties in this Chamber and myself, sometimes ignores the fact that the church building can still have a paint here and there and that the organ doesn't always play very well. My point was more that we took it very seriously with each other that the UN, the WTO, underlying UN organisations, but also issues within NATO and the European Union, were actually of secondary importance to that great goal of multilateralism. Then when someone steps forward and sits in a room and says "I don't agree with some of those things," I find it interesting to see if you can judo with that new thing and whether you can use that new sound to change things as well. That doesn't mean I'm happy that the Applete Body is being blocked right now. That is, of course, not a good development. So that's what we're trying to unblock again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u266	That is a very nice general answer about the mass of multilateralism and all that sort of thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u267	Which we all sing. Me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u268	No, I understand. I looked it up again. The Prime Minister said at Buitenhof: for example, there is something really wrong with this dispute resolution; we have to listen to Trump carefully. And now Trump says, "I'm not going to appoint any new judges, because there's something wrong with this dispute resolution." Then I wonder which side the Netherlands is on, because we, the Netherlands and the European Union, have had an incredibly great interest in resolving this dispute at the WTO. I assume the Prime Minister stands for that. Whether that's a high mass or a low mass, I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u269	Yes. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u270	If in this case we only have the European and the Dutch interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u271	Absolutely. For short, the answer is yes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u272	Then I suggest you take the rest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u273	For a moment I thought Mr Van Ojik wanted to catch me on the fact that I nod occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u274	No, don't invite Mr. Van Ojik. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u275	Mr. Chairman. Then there is also a short eurozone summit. That's including format, I thought, but that aside. There were a few questions about that. What if there's a systemic crisis? Suppose very large banks, which play an important role for the financial sector, fall over. Then there is the instrument of resolution, which is important for the orderly settlement of banks. If this resolution does not provide sufficient comfort, for example, think of the bail-in that goes with it, the resolution fund filled by banks themselves can be used. You only get to the backstop afterwards, in case the resolution fund becomes empty, but it always has to be repaid by the banks themselves. I thought the lyrics always said "midterm fiscally neutral." Moreover, I am in a hurry to add that I am now through my ammunition that a letter has been promised by the Minister of Finance on this matter. That letter informs the Chamber of how and the frequency with which it is informed of systemic risks in the euro area. That letter from the Minister of Finance on this point comes before Christmas. Perhaps I can reassure Mr Omtzig, who I see at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u276	What does Mr Omtzigt think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u277	We're gonna get so many letters for Christmas. I'm really gonna be sitting by my inbox reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u278	Or return of recess from the Chamber. Mr Hoekstra is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u279	Recess is not a holiday, so you can also just get parliamentary questions from me during the recess between Christmas and old and new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u280	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u281	But the question is: does the government consider the system robust if a crisis in the banking system breaks out? An individual bank can, of course, hit a resolution. Then all these steps apply. But if the whole banking system is in crisis, does it work or doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u282	That's how it's designed. But if really the whole sky comes down... Let me agree that I ask Hoekstra to go into this further in his letter, because what would appear is an amageddon. Let's weigh that one more time. I'm gonna take a look at the civil servant's lodge. Yeah, that's wise. I'm asking Hoekstra to include that question in his letter that comes before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u283	It's not heaven coming down, it's hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u284	Sorry. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u285	But I would like that from the Prime Minister, because we agree with something, and I do not want us to say in that scenario that the European Central Bank says that its low interest rate policy also makes that scenario more likely to have no alternative. But I've heard the Prime Minister say that they've thought about that and that they think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u286	Yes. In general terms, the answer is yes. All kinds of scenarios have been cheated, but let's see if Hoekstra can say something in his letter in general about the whole dramatic scenario that, in all the big countries, the very big banks fall down at the same time. But the system is designed like this. First a resolution, then use its own fund and finally the backstop, but that backstop must be filled by the banks themselves midterm. In the end, the taxpayer is not supposed to spend any more money on this, but on a temporary basis, but not on a structural basis. The BICC, so the Budget Instrument for Convergence and Competitiveness, which you all know, is indeed related to cohesion policy. I'll say something about that in a minute. It's part of the MFF, that's what it's supposed to be. Ultimately, of course, there is a link to cohesion policy and it is interesting of this instrument that it can bring about modernisation and further reform of cohesion policy. This is what we hope to achieve. But it's covered by the MFF. Then I come to a question where I am going to serve Mr Omtzigt in part. I don't do that because I don't think the answer would be good, but because he, knowing him, already wants more from me. I'm gonna take care of that procedurally. The question was whether the eurogroup should not be given formal status so that transparency could be increased. The Eurogroup has a formal status in the EU treaties, so it is not a gremium without any status. We consider transparency of the Eurogroup to be important with Mr Omtzig. That's what they're arguing for. The Chamber is also actively involved in this through the annotated agenda, the AOs and the report. Last October's Eurogroup discussed commitments made in recent years to increase this transparency. Annotated euro group agendas shall be published in advance. Afterwards, a summary letter will be published. A work programme shall also be drawn up every six months, setting out the topics likely to be discussed at the meeting. Ways have been discussed to further increase transparency. Member States, including the Netherlands, have further underlined the importance of transparency in that eurogroup, which has been encouraged by the Court. They have called for the balance to be maintained between openness and, of course, the desire to discuss freely. The Netherlands, too, agreed to the proposals made by the secretariat of the Eurogroup to increase transparency. For example, it has been proposed to extend the summary letter published at the end of a eurogroup and to make public eurogroup documents centrally available. Moreover, this transparency is separate from the reform of the ESM, which is another separate chapter. I can imagine Mr Omtzigt saying: thank you for that answer, but I have five follow-up questions. Would it be possible, then, to suggest that they should be involved in the AO Information Service, which will be prepared on 15 January next? That's not very far away, but it's already January 15th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u287	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u288	Mr. Chairman. These were the questions on the items on the agenda. Let me now turn to the somewhat thicker pile of questions that are not on the agenda. I'm not gonna answer them all either. There have been many other issues on the agenda. Mr Verhoeven spoke about migration. The Netherlands, together with other Member States, is trying to unravel this debate. It's extremely complex. The Netherlands really always comes up with constructive proposals. This is happening, for example, on important points for us, which have been laid down in the paper Arenewed European agenda on migration, namely mandatory external border procedures, effective prevention of secondary migration movements and rapid return of those who are not entitled to asylum. This concerns the Dutch commitment. We work very closely with other countries. I have this conversation regularly with my colleagues. The whole question of the functioning of Schengen is also connected with this. The French President has, of course, said far-reaching things about this, which I support, namely that a well-functioning asylum system is crucial to the survival of Schengen. We will continue to do so. Unfortunately, I cannot guarantee to Mr Verhoeven that we will be able to pull this off in the short term, because it is extremely complex. Malta. I agree with Mr Verhoeven and Mr Omtzigt. I too am extremely concerned about all the signals about Malta. I think we can congratulate and congratulate Mr Omtzigt on his great contribution to getting things on the table. The fact is that the Prime Minister of Malta, Joseph Muscat, has decided to resign. I respect that decision. We call for a thorough and complete investigation by Malta and for prosecution of the perpetrators of the murder of Daphne Caruana Galizia. The clients should not go unpunished. The Council of Europe has called for an independent investigation. That independent investigation started on Friday. We will be present as the Netherlands in turn at those sessions. On the rule of law in Malta in general, a letter was sent by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on 2 December, stating that operational police and judicial cooperation is still going well. I have heard very well what Mr Omtzig says about this and what concerns he has. Cooperation with Malta is very limited, but as far as it is concerned it is going well. In view of all the steps Malta has now taken in the persecution and departure of the Prime Minister and so on, we believe that there are no grounds for restricting or stopping cooperation. Of course, I can't say anything about intelligence. I think that Mr Omtzigt referred to this in particular. I think he really wants to go a step further, but I wouldn't say that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u289	Mr. Omtzigt. Let's see, this is your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u290	Is this a threat, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u291	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u292	No, it's an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u293	A fact, I'd say. The threat to the rule of law is more acute in Malta than in other EU countries. I would therefore like the government to make this possible for discussion at the European summit and to include it in the final declaration. If a country does this and there are very clear indications that people in the Prime Minister's office are involved in the attack and cover-up, then there is a big problem. So that's question one. Then there's my second question. I was glad to hear that the Netherlands will be present at the public inquiry. That is a really nice signal, also towards Malta. I hear this is with other countries. That's even better, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u294	Yeah, we're in rotation. I don't have what other countries they are here for, but I can find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u295	I do like to hear what other countries they are. I would like to hear that as soon as possible, preferably tomorrow morning, because which countries are, is a very interesting fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u296	Maybe I can report it in second term as soon as we know. I'm gonna go see if I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u297	That would be very nice. It would also be nice if we could be kept regularly informed of the findings of what is happening there. That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u298	The final declaration requires unanimity. It doesn't make much sense that I'm proposing texts that are vetted by Mr. Muscat. I don't think that's a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u299	I would find it interesting if Mr Muscat were to veto this on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u300	That's not gonna happen. Really, I'm not gonna do it. We really shouldn't want this. Then I would bring it to this European Council, where it is not on the agenda, knowing for sure that it will not get through unanimously. Then you also get a chance of great division, which means that Malta's position can be strengthened rather than weakened. I really would advise you not to ask me this for tactical reasons. I really don't intend to. I don't think we should. We're gonna do all these other things. I really do agree with Omtzigt, and he knows this from me too, and he knows that there is great cause for concern about the situation in Malta.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u301	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u302	Then there are the other questions, including the ban on coal. It is now too early to decide whether the cabinet should cancel the treaty. We are discussing this, as are the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty. We are also looking at the arbitration rules, including the right to regulate, which is important in this regard. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs will address this in more detail when answering questions from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. That's all I know. I'm reading all this for the first time. Then there's the geopolitical situation. I fully agree with what Mr Verhoeven said. May I say that briefly? I also said something in that speech in Zurich about once again looking critically at the issue of unanimity in specific cases. In the case of sanctions and in the case of human rights, situations may arise in which QMV must be decided and not by unanimity. This is now also the position that the Dutch government is expressing internationally. In that respect, I would like to underline his speech. Spain, President, for the sake of shortness. There has been an independent process of justice. In the judgment, the court made it explicit that persecution is not based on ideological grounds, but on breaches of law. These statements are in line with Spanish criminal law. They derive from the democratically established Spanish constitution. There are also opportunities to appeal to the Spanish Constitutional Court for those concerned. So I see no reason to address Spain now. Then there is the debate on enlargement with the Western Balkans. We support the EU perspective across the Western Balkans. We are now talking to Serbia and Montenegro. I think Bosnia and Kosovo are a little further away. The debate is, of course, about North Macedonia and Albania. I think there is also a feeling here that North Macedonia is quite a long way off. There are still serious concerns about Albania. We are now looking at the next progress report. In an EU perspective, we do not want membership automations. It has to be fair and strict. Strict and fair is our policy. I say to Mrs Leijten that there are indeed French proposals which we are looking at with great interest. Or was it Mr Asscher? No, it was Mrs Leijten who referred to the French proposals on enlargement. These proposals do not so much say that we are going to build a different relationship with those countries. They lead to a different process of accession. In these French proposals, you have the opportunity, first of all, to decide several times at Council level whether you can move forward. Secondly, at a time when countries are taking steps back, for example with regard to the rule of law...................................................................................................................................................................................... So we're gonna take another look at it. That is the French proposal. That is what we are looking at with great interest. We also have close contact with the French. In the long term, this could lead to initiatives by France with other countries, perhaps with us, to change the accession system. But it is not necessarily meant to build another relationship with those countries. In the process of building up to full accession, in exchange for a longer process of accession, these countries will already be able to benefit from certain advantages enjoyed by members of the European Union. In that sense, Mrs Leijten is right. That's what's in it. But that is the French proposal. It is not that we support that from a to z, but we do find it interesting. Then prevent money from going to fraud-making Member States. It is, of course, important for the cabinet to avoid this, I say to Mr Asscher. We're making ourselves strong for that. We will continue to do so, including in the context of the MFF. That is why we are putting in place a mechanism to protect the EU budget from legal shortcomings, such as legislation that would limit fraud investigations. In addition, the EU Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, has an important role to play in addressing this issue. The European Public Prosecutor will also give an impetus to the fight against criminal law against EU fraud. The Netherlands will make an active and constructive contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u303	How many questions do you have to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u304	Just a few more. Maybe I can do them fast. Then the questions can be asked afterwards. I understand the concerns that have been expressed about Hungary. We do not yet know exactly what that rumor about the Culture Council means. I don't want to make any statements about that right now. I've only seen the public things about it. But in general, of course, there is concern about Hungary. That is why it is being discussed under Article 7. The General Affairs Council is, of course, the first body to do so. He talked about it today, too. At today's General Affairs Council, the second hearing under Article 7 took place with Hungary. There has been talk about independent justice, about freedom of the media and academic freedom. The report of this General Affairs Council will inform the Chamber of the conduct of that hearing. Shall I just take care of all the questions and then ask all the questions, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u305	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u306	Then the digitals. I say to Mr Asscher that if France is attacked, it is an attack on all. I agree with him. Fortunately, this is not in the sense of Article 5 of NATO, but in the sense of how the EU reacts to trade sanctions. They affect the commonality of the Union as a whole. In this context, the Netherlands supports the OECD initiative. These are two pillars, modernising the rules and tackling tax avoidance. Political consultations have been held. The objective is to reach a consensus on the principles surrounding digitals by the end of 2020 within the inclusive format, including the OECD candidate countries. The Netherlands is trying to promote this. Mrs Maeijer spoke of a single seat for the European Parliament. That is not allowed by her French sister party, Front National, although that is not a reason for the Netherlands not to want it. Because we want to. But it is remarkable that she brings it up, because her sister party is against it. But it's never gonna work, because this has to be done with a treaty change. We therefore call for a single seat for the European Parliament. As a result of the Asscher/Jetten motion, I raised this point again at the European Council on 9 May last, but it was completely unopposed. It's interesting to talk about it, but it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u307	And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u308	I'll continue with the questions. Mr Van Otterloo asked about technology policy. It is important that Europe takes the lead. This involves investing in technology, European funds and specific investments in strategic sectors such as batteries and other technologies that allow transition. The new Commission will have to work on this. For the Netherlands, it is important that this is done in an open trading system. I would also like to mention the promotion of competition in the internal market. We are considering Von der Leyen's proposals on digital autonomy. Mr Bishop on the report The Commission is in balance. We know that report by Clingendael, of course, which was also drawn up at the request of this Chamber. A response to this will follow and we will give it to the State of the Union. I can say that it is important that Member States implement and enforce agreements. This is primarily their responsibility and the Commission can support it. This means that the Commission can only take over tasks if there is a basis for this in EU legislation, otherwise it cannot. It also means that we believe that the Commission should take account of national situations, for example where existing legislation is concerned and, in general terms, the organisation of the country. There must therefore be a great deal of room for Member States. The government's commitment to defining the Strategic Agenda has led to the identification of our priorities. Subsidiarity has also been called for in this context. We keep bringing these things to the attention of the public. It is important that the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are respected horizontally in the Commission's work. That is also in line with Clingendael's report. Then there is the question of the powers of the ECB. Is the ECB now competent to go outside when it comes to climate change? The very difficult thing is, of course, that they are independent in fulfilling their mandate. As an outsider, you may sometimes wonder whether it still fits the main objective of maintaining price stability. Nevertheless, one can also argue that the ECB's objective is to support general economic policy in the European Union and as such contribute to the EU's objectives as described in the Treaty. Of course, this includes sustainable development. So along such a line of reasoning it might be more imaginable again. Then there's the earthquake in Albania. It's horrible. Last week, in London and on the margins of the NATO summit, I had a long talk with Edi Rama, the Prime Minister of Albania. He's also personally affected within his family. It's very tragic. Of course, we are trying to help in every way possible. The European Union has sent search and rescue teams and other technical expertise. The European Union has also sent civil protection teams to Albania. The Netherlands has made the team leader available for this. There will be a donor conference, Von der Leyen announced on 4 December. At the NATO summit, I also promised immediate support, as did the French, the Germans and others, to help Albania rebuild. That's gonna be a huge job because there's really a lot of broken stuff. When you see the pictures and the footage, it's really horrible. It is a humanitarian disaster because of the tragic loss of human lives on a large scale, but it is also a logistical disaster. The Netherlands is trying to contribute in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u309	I'll see if there's a question left. Very briefly, Mrs Leijten, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u310	When it comes to the French proposal to deal differently with accession, I do not understand exactly what is being embraced by the Netherlands and what is the course of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u311	There is no fixed French proposal. We know that the French are thinking, and they involve us and others for ideas. We are also trying to influence them. Things have also come up in the media, so I can talk about it here, but I can't say exactly what status that has. The advantage of this could be that you go to an expanding system where there are a number of automatisms and parliaments come more into the picture, at least the national governments, and that when countries take steps back on the right path, you can also incorporate this in the further accession process, in the sense that you can say: we are opposed to that. Then you will have to take action again on certain chapters in order to move forward. I don't know what that's gonna look like. I do not know if anything will come out, but when Mrs Leijten refers to French proposals, I suspect she means them. There are no cured, complete proposals on paper; perhaps in a smaller circle, but there is nothing we can publish or what the French have published, so we cannot do so. We are trying to influence these proposals. If anything interesting comes out, we'll talk to the Chamber about it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u312	I would like the Prime Minister, whether or not through the summit reports or the annotated agenda, to keep the Chamber informed. Because, of course, in the spring, we will have the discussion again about whether or not to open chapters or start accession talks. I would like it if we did not have another kind of blackbird, while we are quite reasonable in our assessment, but the accession system does not allow us to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u313	I take note of that. I understand what Mrs Leijten is saying, but I will leave it at that, because I think we are quite in agreement. Anything I say about it won't help. I would like to keep the Chamber informed, but I cannot promise to keep the Chamber informed if it is still conversations that do not lend themselves to publication. If it's confidential conversations between capitals, I can't inform the Chamber. I can't do that until we agree, otherwise I'm going to bring out something that's confidential to the French. So I can't make a hard commitment, but as soon as we can, we will; really, take it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u314	Mr Verhoeven, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u315	I understood that a spokesperson of a Hungarian minister met with the General Affairs Council this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u316	That's what I saw in the media, but I haven't heard anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u317	That's against all the RAZ's appointments, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u318	I've only seen it in the media, so I'm not going to respond to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u319	If that is the case, I would like the Prime Minister to take Hungary's position on transparency on the basis of this, because they are always very obstinate against it. If it is true that the Hungarians are doing this, I would like the Prime Minister to say at some point: why are you always against transparency, except when you are tweeting yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u320	But you could also argue that the signals are as serious as they are now, at the Cultural Council, which I do not know exactly what it is; I can see it in the media too, that the subject may not lend itself to such jokes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u321	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u322	Mr. Chairman. Many answers, but not to the question of the waning right of demonstration in countries of the European Union. That is the answer I would like to get anyway. Amnesty International calls for two demonstrators sentenced to nine years in Spain... I hear the Prime Minister say he answered that. Then I didn't hear that right, but then I'll definitely read it back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the European Council welcomes the European Commission's opinion aimed at further integrating Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union;]] [[whereas the United Kingdom is about to leave the European Union while at the same time several countries in the European Union do not comply with European values and standards relating, inter alia, to corruption and the rule of law;]] [[whereas countries can also be helped in other ways to advance economically and in terms of building the rule of law rather than simply by starting the process of becoming a member of the European Union;]] [[calls on the government to work together with like-minded people to find an alternative to automatically focusing on enlargement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the plans for the European Green Deal will be discussed in detail in the European Union in the coming months;]] [[Considers that the amount of 100 billion that has been embraced by the European Commission and the European Council should not be a new fossil energy subsidy pot, for storing CO underground or, for example, for biomass that does not contribute to the reduction of CO emissions;]] [[further considers that if the Green Deal does not benefit social justice, there will be no support for it;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the 100 billion does not become a new subsidy pot for old polluting energy;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1494]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1495]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u323	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the Prime Minister. I fear that we will be discussing the Multiannual Financial Framework more often. I see a development that is not going in the right direction, but I explained it. The Prime Minister doesn't see it that way. We will probably have more clarity in the coming months on which direction it is heading. As far as the WTO is concerned, I am somewhat reassured. I had listened carefully to what the Prime Minister at Buitenhof said. He said: well, that conflict resolution system, it really has to be better and Trump is right about that. Now I understand that we are really in favour of the current system and that we will urge the US to lift the blockade they have created, because it is really in the Dutch and European interest that this is happening. So I've got that in my head. On Hungary, I would like to make a motion on behalf of my colleague, Mr Asscher. It is true what the Prime Minister says: the discussion has not yet crystallized. He's in the middle of something right now. Well, not right now, but today and this week in the Hungarian Parliament. That is why I think it is important that the Dutch Parliament should also give its opinion on this issue. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hungarian Government intends to set up a "culture council" to withdraw funding if the content of the theatre performances does not support Orbán's values;]] [[noting that the Minister for Culture appears to have a right of veto in the appointment of theatre directors;]] [[Considers that this step once again seriously violates the core values of the European Union;]] [[points out that the freedom of artistic expression in the European Union is a great asset and calls on the Cabinet to do everything possible to help ensure this freedom in the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1496]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u324	Thank you, Mr President. A modern budget is at the forefront of D66. The world is changing and a European fist is needed. There are major cross-border challenges. They're not free. The Prime Minister is proud of his speeches in the European capitals. That is wonderful, but I therefore think that he is showing a grocery mentality here in the House of Representatives, and that he is also pursuing an unwise strategy with regard to the use of the Netherlands in relation to the Multiannual Financial Framework. That is what the Finnish compromise shows. We're not bringing in what we want. And that's a shame, because it's necessary. The Prime Minister's comment on the coalition agreement is, of course, a bit cheap, because when a compromise comes out, the Netherlands will have to pay a higher amount of money, and that is a great opportunity; the Prime Minister himself knows very well that I do not hear him anymore about the coalition agreement. Then all of a sudden it's possible. So then the realism of D66 is apparently also the realism of the Prime Minister. But that's after and I'd rather say it in advance. Another motion on the situation in Malta. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister when he answered questions from Omtzigt. I have a motion that also fits in with the Prime Minister's sensible remarks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament has drawn clear conclusions on the major problems with the rule of law in Malta and the investigation into the attack on Daphne Caruana Galizia;]] [[noting that the European Parliament and the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly have adopted resolutions on the situation in Malta;]] [[calls on the Government to address the depravable state of the rule of law in Malta at the European Summit and to issue a public statement with similar Member States calling on Malta to rapidly implement the recommendations of the Venice Commission, as requested by Malta itself, to implement GRECO and MONEYVAL, and to inform the Chamber on this and on Malta's response,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1497]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u325	And thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u326	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u327	Thank you, Mr President. The European Commission is coming up with climate plans tomorrow, but it is important to note that the European Union is pursuing an anti-climate policy. Up to 2028 another 365 billion in agricultural subsidies, a large proportion of which go to dairy farming. If you don't stop that, then your climate plan doesn't make any sense. Calling biomass sustainable; if you don't stop it, then your climate plan doesn't make sense. Close trade deals with types like Bolsonaro; yes, throw your climate plan in the trash. These words should be addressed to the European Commission by the Prime Minister tomorrow as far as we are concerned. We have two proposals that could help him with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Investor-State Dispute Settlement clause (ISDS) in the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) allows foreign energy companies to sue the Dutch State if the State takes decisions that would go against the financial interests of those companies;]] [[Whereas this could lead to claims of hundreds of millions of euros;]] [[calls on the Government to take the necessary steps to terminate the ECT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1498]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u328	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister is seeking European support for this, because it is a European treaty and I think that the climate plan would be very helpful if the European Union were to denounce this whole treaty. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the classification of energy from (woody) biomass as sustainable (renewable) energy is strongly criticised by the Joint European Academy of Sciences (EASAC);]] [[noting that the combustion of wooded biomass leads to large-scale forest cover and increased CO concentration;]] [[calls on the government in Europe to stop labeling energy from (woody) biomass as sustainable (renewable) energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1499]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u330	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u331	Mr. Chairman. I think it's good for this cabinet and this Prime Minister that it's almost Christmas. "Insufficient." "Cary grocery mentality." "A strategy that's not gonna work." Commenting: "Goodbye, I'll know when the group chairmen call." That seems a bit of a waste on a subject as important as this. We will assess the proposals that will eventually be put forward on the question of whether they are sufficiently modernised, whether they are adequate for the protection of workers in Europe and whether the Dutch money is being handled efficiently and efficiently. That may also mean that the payment is going up, but I would advise the Prime Minister to negotiate it internally. Two. I am grateful to the Prime Minister for what he said about standing up for France and the solidarity that is needed in the way in which the United States is currently engaged in commercial policy. I think it is important to take a real step forward now and thus also to protect the autonomy of countries and the European bloc. Three. I have heard the Prime Minister very well that the debate on Hungary has not yet been crystallised. At the same time, I really think that this is a subject that is bigger than politics and larger than the negotiating area, which is limited. I understand that there is no need to burn unnecessary political capital in the European Council, but it is another frontier that is likely to be crossed. My request to the Prime Minister is that when he sees that space, which he also takes, he should speak out against it and make it clear to the people of Hungary, who see their space increasingly restricted, that they are Europeans and that this also brings solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u332	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. As far as we are concerned, an appreciation of the result will be mainly due to the balanced distribution of the burden on the climate across Europe. The Netherlands, too, must be divided equally so that we are able to pay some of our costs out of the European pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u334	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u335	Mr President, thank you. One minister was previously called "unhandy" and the Prime Minister "unwise." In any case, the coalition's unity shone away from it again tonight. That said, I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Council intends to agree that the European Union should be climate neutral by 2050;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to this madness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1500]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u336	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is the largest net contributor of this century;]] [[noting that the Netherlands will pay more than 8 billion to the EU next year;]] [[calls on the government to make a substantial reduction in our payments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1501]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u337	My third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that there are voices calling for our "reduction" on the excessive EU contribution to be cancelled;]] [[invites the Government under no circumstances to agree to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1502]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u338	My fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to agree to the financing of EU projects outside the EU budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer, Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1503]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u339	Finally, Madam President. The Prime Minister just said in his reply that raising the issue of abolishing the movement circus from Strasbourg to Brussels is unopposed. In my view, an idea will not be possible unless you stop trying to make it possible, so again the question: is the Prime Minister prepared to raise the issue of abolishing the moving circus at the forthcoming European summit? Because he agrees with me that it is totally hypocritical to preach climate neutrality on the one hand, but on the other hand the travelling circus can just keep moving?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u340	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u341	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I have one further motion. I would like to read it to you, and I shall confine myself to it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission, supported by a Dutch government position paper, is steering a comprehensive Green Deal, including a European climate law;]] [[Whereas European ambitions are not limited to, inter alia, the European emissions trading system for competitive sectors and the internal energy market and infrastructure, but also extend to areas and sectors which are primarily the responsibility of the Member States, such as the built environment, the tax system, urban air quality and urban transport;]] [[Whereas a European Climate Law and a European Climate Agreement may cross and delay national plans and agendas and undermine the sustainability support;]] [[considers that the strength of European cooperation should be sought through appropriate European agreements in those areas where Member States need each other;]] [[calls on the Government to take the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality into account in the assessment of the Green Deal and its subsequent proposals, in line with the above considerations, and to take this into account in its commitment at European level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1504]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u342	Mr President, I have heard the Prime Minister very well when it comes to principles such as proportionality and subsidiarity. I ask him to see this motion as a support for that line, and, in the short appreciation that we can expect from the Green Deal and the plans presented on Monday, to be aware of how that relates to subsidiarity and proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u343	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. You know that motions that are considered to support policies are dissuaded by default? Then I'll tell you. Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u344	Mr President, you are cruel to Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u345	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u346	Brutal, I hear the Prime Minister say. Mr President, thank you. This is going to be an interesting summit, because if there is nothing clear on the agenda, then there may be a decision at once that we have not seen coming. Therefore, you cannot in advance request some kind of permission from the House of Representatives. I find it really uncomfortable, because normally we as the Chamber can read the draft decisions and then we know what they are. But even those draft texts aren't there yet, and we can't even discuss them publicly. That is precisely the problem with the openness of the European Union. It's tricky, and that's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that more than 20 EU Parliaments have made proposals for greater transparency;]] [[invites the Government to consult with the European Commission, the President of the Council and the President of the Eurogroup in order to include all these proposals in the Commission's and Eurogroup's work programmes and to provide a timetable for the full implementation and participation of all these measures in the work programme over the next two years, and to inform the Court within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1505]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u347	This Chamber has received a majority of Parliaments in this programme. It's slow. I know that the Dutch Government is drawing on it, but it is precisely when new programmes are being drawn up in the eurogroup that these matters must be included in the process of adapting treaties. If a democracy is to function, there must be a certain degree of openness. That is simply not enough in the decision-making process of the Council and the Eurogroup. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the fact that the Netherlands is going to help, in a rotating group, at the inquiry in Malta, to look there and report back on this. That is also a clear signal that we find something of the rule of law there. I have signed Mr Verhoeven's motion for a resolution for a reason, because I think it is important that there should be a public signal, because this government no longer has a parliament, does not speak to the press and is not really representative of what is going on there. Then there is nothing left for me but to wish the Prime Minister a good trip, with a little sleep once in a while, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u348	Well, that's very kind of you. Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD. No? Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u349	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u350	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I say once with what Asscher said about Hungary. And so the point of the moving circus was raised on the occasion of that motion by Mr Jetten/Asscher on 9 May. And of course, I'll do it again where I can. But I am also honest about it once again: this is not very likely. Then I'll come to the motions. In the motion in part No. 1494 the government is invited to work together with like-minded people to find an alternative to automatically focusing on enlargement. The Treaty offers the possibility of applying for membership. That's why I have to discourage the motion. However, we are considering whether we can improve the methodology with other Member States and in consultation with the Commission. So I think Mrs Leijten and I are in agreement. But the motion is too absolute here. The motion in part No. I could accept 1495, but then I have to ask if Mrs Leijten would like to get the sentence out about that CO storage and biomass. So if the second part of the sentence in the second text block comes out, I can accept the motion. It is therefore the first recital, but it is the second block of texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u351	Mrs Leijten will know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u352	She knows that. She knows that. She's so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u353	Mrs. Leijten, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u354	Can I do that standing up for the meeting, or do I have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u355	No, I can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u356	Then I'll take that sentence out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u357	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u358	The Leijten/Beckerman motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the plans for the European Green Deal will be discussed in detail in the European Union in the coming months;]] [[considers that the amount of 100 billion embraced by the European Commission and the European Council should not be a new fossil energy subsidy fund;]] [[further considers that if the Green Deal does not benefit social justice, there will be no support for it;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the 100 billion does not become a new subsidy pot for old polluting energy;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 1495 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u359	Yes. Then I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1496, by Van Ojik and Asscher, of course gets judgment Chamber. The Dutch Government supports what is stated here, and of course it is also enshrined in the Treaty. We would then like to read 'anything possible' as 'the possibilities offered by the Treaty for addressing state-of-law violations'. But the motion gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 1497 I advise. I just explained that. Here's what's gonna happen. This motion is, of course, sympathetic. There's also the possibility that I'll talk to Muscat about it. But here we are also being asked to see if I can find similar Member States in those European summits. This could lead to a strengthening of Malta's position. Really boys, beware; this leads to a strengthening of Malta's position. 'Cause this is gonna be really complicated. People will say: boys, this is already happening in the Council of Europe. The Netherlands is also involved, I have already explained that. We're present at that trial. I have just explained this and Mr Omtzigt appreciated it. But this goes a step further. If this motion is adopted, you run the risk that I will come to the conclusion that colleagues will say: we are not going to do that now. That's what I'm really worried about. That will strengthen Malta's position. I would therefore like to strongly discourage this motion, precisely because I think we are in total agreement on what is not right about Malta. But this strengthens Malta, paradoxically,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u360	The motion in part No. 1498.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u361	... just to say it to his Van Mierlo's. I would like to propose that the next motion, in part No. 1498, to be retained. Questions have been put to the House on this matter. The answers are coming, of course. Then perhaps there will be a debate on that, or not. This really requires a complex consideration. It is not in the preparation of this summit either. I just haven't been able to prepare it right now. It's not on the agenda either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u362	What if the motion isn't stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u363	If the motion isn't stopped, I really should strongly discourage her, because I have no idea in which...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u364	Mrs. Ouwehand has a question. I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Ouwehand. But you filed another motion. I'd like to hear the verdict on that motion first. Then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u365	I would also like to ask for that next motion, in part No. Fourteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen nineteen This is not on the agenda of this European Council either. I would ask the authors to include this in the next debate with the Minister of Trade. If she's not apprehended, then I'll also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u366	The motion in part No. 1498 I'm on. And about what I'm doing with the motion in part No. 1499 I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u367	You'll have until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u368	Great. The motion in part No. I do not recommend 1500, with reference to the debate. I'll come to the motion in part No. 1501. Cabinet policy is aimed at keeping payments constant and at modernising the budget. That balance isn't in here. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 1501. Also the motion in part No. 1502 I don't recommend. It doesn't say "under any circumstances." Look, we want to make a discount, but in the end, of course, it is important that our contribution to Europe does not deteriorate. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 1502. The motion in part No. I also advise against 1503, because we already have projects that are not funded within the EU budget, for example in the field of defence. So that is already the case. The judgment on the motion in part No. 1504, by Mr Bishop, I leave to the Chamber. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 1505, by Mr Omtzigt, I leave to the Chamber. I consider this to be an effort on this point, I say. But against that backdrop, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u369	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u370	I did have a response to a question by Mr Omtzigt about the independent investigation into the murder of Daphne Galizia. It was just handed to me. The purpose of the investigation is to determine whether the authorities knew or could know if her life was in danger. It must also determine whether criminal law is adequate enough to prevent impunity. Three persons have been assigned to carry out the investigation. The investigation will be conducted in public. The Netherlands, together with Germany, will be present in turn, via the CDA colleagues, at the sessions of the independent investigation. Other countries do not yet know whether they intend to be present. Witnesses who are called are required to appear. The investigation must be completed within nine months and it must not affect the police investigation. So that's just a few words in response to Mr Omtzig's question. In any case, Germany, possibly other countries, but we do not know that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u371	I thank the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u372	Mr President, it's 8:55 p.m. We're 15 minutes late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u373	For what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u374	You wanted to continue with the next debate at 8.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u375	Yeah, that's right, about the planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-32.u376	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I thank the Prime Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, after which my colleague Mrs Van Toorenburg will take over the presidency and allow the education team to continue.
