ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Law on the prohibition of fur animals farming in connection with the addition of the power to impose administrative reparations to enforce that law, Parliamentary Decree 35006.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	I welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and give Mr Geurts the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking in this debate on behalf of Mr Bishop of the SGP Group, who is also on my behalf to the fishermen in Urk. Mr. Chairman. On 1 July 1999, the political groups of PvdA, D66, GroenLinks, SP and RPF tabled a motion requesting the government to prepare measures to end the keeping of minks. That was the basis for the ban on fur farming, a law that does not have the sympathy of the CDA group. These are entrepreneurs, their families and employees, who work hard for an honest sandwich. They keep their animals better than anywhere else in Europe and mink unions cross our borders even after the ban. Mr. Chairman. Until 1 January 2014, there will be a transitional period for the keeping of mink, and today we are discussing an amendment to this law in order to impose administrative sanctions. The CDA Group asked in writing what the need for the legislative proposal before us is. The answer was that the Minister chose to be able to operate under penalty, both with a punitive sanction and with a recovery sanction in the form of an administrative burden or a penalty charge. In legal terms, they call this adding suffering. The explanatory memorandum also states that this is in order to stop an infringement from continuing. Well, Mr. Chairman, several mink keepers don't want to go through anymore! Their work is made impossible with a death home construction by a majority in this Chamber. And now that they want to stop, all kinds of barriers are being created. The current extinction policy is antisocial. Many mink owners do not get the opportunity to convert their business into another economic activity and that is what they have been told by the parties who have supported the ban on fur farming. The accompanying policy includes a subsidy scheme to compensate for the costs of demolition and conversion of their businesses. I have a number of questions for the Minister, Mr President. How many mink owners have been able to use this? And the second question: how many mink holders have been able to use the rest of the accompanying policy at all? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the financial situation in the sector has deteriorated significantly in recent years. From conversations with mink holders, I have noted that there are personnel problems and banks no longer participate in lending. I even hear the banks cancel the mortgages, and then speed them up. Mr. Chairman. Accelerated stopping is not possible by the elaboration of the Act ban fur animal farming in practice. An example to illustrate it: a mink keeper must have a mink farm in practice and continuously for five years. Companies that want to stop now and haven't finished their conversion plans are obliged to continue. And if they stop now, and after a few years of planning, they're not entitled to the grant. In addition, all licences must be available before the grant application can be submitted. And if all that had been done, then demolition and conversion should have been completed within a year. If that was the intention of the law, I ask the Minister. Entrepreneurs stand with their backs against the wall, cannot go in a direction and cannot use the scheme. Worse still, there is no compensation for capital losses and loss of income, and less than half of the demolition costs are reimbursed. I believe that mink-holders are being seriously deficient in the fact that the law does not take account of the fact that the financial income of mink-holders has been dramatic in recent years. Mr. Chairman. My specific question is whether the Minister is prepared to amend the Decision on aid for the scrapping and conversion of fur animals, so that more tailor-made work can be done. I am considering a motion for a resolution on this matter in the second term. In addition, the sector is invited to draw up a socio-economic plan aimed at advice, knowledge transfer, retraining, vocational training and information. Part of this budget can be made available for this purpose. How are the talks going, I ask, through you, Mr President, the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I also think it would be a good thing if the Minister himself had a conversation with the mink farmers. The question and the appeal I have to make: is the Minister prepared to do so in the short term? I think it is right for the Minister himself to know from his mouth what the situation is at the moment. The social and economic problems for these families are great, and the CDA wants an evaluation to be carried out to keep an eye on whether the accompanying policy will have the desired effect in the future. (NL) Mr President, concluding: all those who say that mink farmers can stop in a social way by means of the Act on the Prohibition of fur farming do not really know what they are talking about. All in all, the CDA Group intends to vote against the amendment of the ban on fur farming which is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	I have a question about the motion which Mr Geurts is announcing. 28 million has been made available for the accompanying policy, and an additional 8 million has been added to the envelope for the restructuring of pig farming in the coalition agreement. My question is: what does Mr Geurts mean with regard to the use of the 28 million previously released, on which he has a motion, and what will happen with the additional 8 million, which will also be added to the accompanying policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	Here's what I'm trying to do. I have found that little or no mink holders can avail themselves of the subsidy possibilities. So within the frameworks agreed in the law and which have also reached a majority here in the Chamber, I call on the Minister, together with the mink owners, to see how this subsidy pot is going to benefit the mink farmers. My impression is that, at the moment, no very few people will be able to make use of it. Surely that was never the intention of those who made the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	If the scheme doesn't work, it's always good to look at it. But I am curious about the concrete proposals, but above all about the additional 8 million. He's come in like a bum-off-a-box. There was 8 million. 200 million would go to the reform of pig farming. We received the letter on this, and then suddenly it says: 120 million clean-up pig farming, we do some subsidy and 8 million to the mink breeding. Mr Geurts and his party are in this coalition. Surely there's an idea about what's gonna happen to that $8 million? I'm just curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	I remember that there were still references in that letter to the socio-economic conditions of fur farming, in my opinion. I think I will pass on this question from Mrs Ouwehand to the Minister to deal specifically with the 8 million. But once again, let there be no misunderstanding: my appeal is, within the existing frameworks, also financially, to see how we can help those mink owners, including in the changeover. You can't do that right now. The people who came up with this law haven't given it much thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	I would like to ask for some background on the CDA Group's announced vote against. If I understand Mr Geurts correctly, he is and was against the Act on the Prohibition of fur animal husbandry. That is logical; that was also the CDA at the time and he criticizes another law, namely the law on subsidising demolition costs. Those are the arrangements in practice. I think we can talk about that. But that is not what we are going to vote on. What we are now going to vote on is purely a law for the adoption of administrative measures. So my question to Mr Geurts is: is the CDA group going to vote against because of substantive objections to the law that is now before us, or because of some sort of protest against the whole package of recent years, so to speak? I'd like that to be sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	We have a law banning fur farming. That's not what the CDA Group was for, and we're not yet. We have a Decision subsidising demolition and conversion costs fur animal farming; it is a decision, not a law. That's part of the law, and that's not what the CDA is for; but well, that's what you're dealing with. What matters to me now is this adaptation that adds, legally speaking, additional suffering to fur animals farmers. What matters to me at the heart is this: fur animal keepers want to stop much faster. This law is therefore totally superfluous. If it goes on like this, fur animals are already out of the sector after 2024, because that's what they want very much. So adding additional legal suffering through administrative intervention cannot count on our sympathy. That is what is happening here today, and that is what we are not going to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	I can go a long way with it, although I still have the impression that it concerns more the circumstances surrounding the law than the law itself. If the Minister can explain convincingly in her reply that these additional measures are necessary for enforcement, regardless of the discussion on the socio-economic conditions and what we must offer to stop, is there any possibility that the CDA will vote for this law, just looking at what is ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	The question put by Mr Futselaar is a very justified one. We have already said this in writing: what is the need for the legislative proposal before us? I just quoted the answer. It's meant to equalize laws, I guess. Those are my own words. At least we have a criminal trail now, and there should be an administrative trail next to it. We weren't even of that criminal offence we certainly don't have to do that, but now we have extra administrative pressure on a sector that is already having a very difficult time, that just doesn't have our sympathy and with that I can also do that... At least I am going to advise my group to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	A very small remark, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	I have read something else, not that it is automatic and-and, but that you can choose that something is not an offence that justifies the criminal path, but that you take only administrative measures. If that is the case, will that not change the matter for Mr Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	I'll be back at the base: that law didn't have to be. I can't say it enough. The criminal trail still offers the most legal opportunities for mink owners to do their story right with the judge. Administratively, you'll just be fined, you'll have to pay it first, and then you can go to court. You don't have to do that for me. The CDA doesn't have to. That is the basis of why we have absolutely no basis for this change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	Clear, Mr. Geurts. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. It's gonna happen to you. You're around 55 years old and you're allowed to run your business for less than five years. Your company isn't worth anything from one day to the next. You can't sell your company, because the mink farm is forbidden. You can't start another branch of livestock farming, because they're regulated. Municipalities and provinces do not cooperate or cooperate in changing the destination of the business location. Your son is cooperating in the company. It was his future. He was supposed to take over the company, but his future is also gone from one day to the next. He too is empty-handed. This family and so many, the water is all over them. For some people, the situation was so hopeless that they left life. Mr. Chairman. I have been truly touched by the personal suffering, grief and drama of mink farmers, by hard-working entrepreneurs, sometimes cooperating partners, children, grandfathers, staff and supplying companies. It is personal suffering caused by a ban on mink farming, a ban without proper transitional arrangements. Today, the Chamber is discussing an amendment to the ban on fur farming, an amendment which should give the Minister more powers to enforce. This does not feel right, a change to a law in order to be able to take extra enforcement action and that in the knowledge of what I have just put forward. The explanation of the law even states that this amendment is necessary in order to be able to take preventive action when it is found that there is a manifest danger of committing an offence. I find that very difficult in the knowledge of what these entrepreneurs are in. It must therefore feel like a kick to the sector. First, your future and your family's, you can't go anywhere with your company, and then, just before the finish line, you also have a proposal to act in addition to criminal enforcement. Why, I ask the Minister. Why this change of law? The answers to the questions previously asked show that in recent years there has been a great deal of commitment from the NVWA to the controls of the mink holders. The Minister writes in her replies that there have been no violations where enforcement could not be done. Speaking of enforcement. I will not question enforcement. We make legislation in this house and the people, entrepreneurs, must abide by it. And the NVWA will see to this. And the Minister and the NVWA will consider how enforcement will be implemented. However, I would like to mention a number of figures. There are 39,390 livestock farms in the Netherlands. The NVWA carried out farm inspections at 779 farms last year. The intensity of supervision was therefore 2%. The NVWA has visited 150 mink owners. This means that about 20% of inspections have been carried out on controls carried out by mink farmers. Two infringements have been reported in the past year. This means a little more than 1% of the controls. Every offense is too much, but is this bet proportional? Here's what I'd like to compare. Last Friday, the Finance Committee paid a working visit to Schiphol and the ferry in IJmuiden. The purpose of the visit was to see how customs is prepared for the hands-on Brexit. There is a great deal of work being done to meet all the challenges facing us. Every effort is made to minimise the burden on people and entrepreneurs. Two NVWA inspectors are available for phytosanitary checks at cargo control. There'll be two more men temporarily, but they'll have to leave soon. The plant health check doesn't seem unimportant to me. At the ferry IJmuiden it was actually even sadder: a ferry service that is operational seven days a week, sails to and from England, not 24/7 availability of the NVWA, no, but five days a week. For the process pets, for example quarantine, they are in IJmuiden dependent on Nijkerk. You heard me right. And then there is the lack of digital processing of forms, which leads to great annoyance among entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. I have asked written questions about this, so I do not expect an answer from the Minister to these figures. I have asked these questions together with the CDA, the SGP and 50PLUS. But for today, I hope that the Minister will simply take these figures to heart. The debate on NVWA is still ongoing; I will certainly come back to this. Back to the bill. My group also sees no added value in this legislative amendment. A sector that will enter its last years, entrepreneurs who are mainly working on survival and exploring the possibilities to have some perspective. The law provides for enforcement action. We do not believe that there is a need for an additional instrument. The energy can be better used to support this group of entrepreneurs. This brings me to the Decision on aid for the demolition and conversion of fur animals. Last October, I asked the Minister about this arrangement. In practice, it appears that very few companies make use of this scheme. Or perhaps I should say that I should be able to make use of this arrangement. Mr. Chairman. The deadlines and conditions are tight. So tight it's almost impossible, as I said. A term of one year, the conversion of the company must take place at the same location. Mr Geurts has just mentioned a number of examples, which I will not repeat. Nor does it take into account the sometimes rigid behaviour of municipalities or provinces to change a destination or procedures to be followed. In reply to my question, the Minister indicated that she would go in consultation with the sector to remove these bottlenecks. Can the Minister indicate whether this discussion has taken place and what improvements are being made? Mr President, the fact that the ban on mink farming has a significant impact is demonstrated by the call of the municipality of Gemert-Bakel, a municipality with over 30,000 inhabitants and 21 mink farms, providing 200 direct and 200 indirect jobs. At the request of the Committee on Agriculture, the Minister responded to this municipality's distress call. My question is whether the Minister is now sitting with the sector to take concrete steps. On many other issues, the Minister takes the initiative of consultation or a discussion table or otherwise, but it remains silent for this sector. Is the Minister prepared to table the right people? Mr President, I have started my contribution with the personal suffering, grief and drama that is taking place within the mink farming industry. In preparing this debate, I had a knot in my stomach. It will only happen to you: your future will be taken away from you and the little bit of perspective that exists, the demolition and conversion scheme, will be designed in such a way that it doesn't offer perspective for everyone. And then the people who are concerned also have to read that it is actually their own fault, because they have not responded to the internet consultation of the draft decision on demolition and conversion. Mr President, may I ask the Minister to speak to these people personally, please? The ban on mink farming will not be reversed. We know how the hares run, but these people deserve at least an honest and open conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	I wanted to ask a question about enforcement and the image the VVD sketched here. I read in writing that the VVD Group believes that if there is a law, it should also be enforced. That's a good starting point. We know that the NVWA visited 60 locations in 2016. They don't seem to have checked for that. On 20 of them it was found that more mink were kept than authorised under the licence. That has not been followed up to this day. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	I've given you some figures. If I look at the past year, then the numbers I have just brought up have also been found to be in violation of two companies that I have also removed from the NVWA site. That's what I've been focusing on in this input. I also said that violations are never good and that they need to be dealt with. I am not questioning enforcement, by the way. At the time of maintenance and detection of an offence, action must be taken. Let us put that very clearly. But I do not share Mrs Ouwehand's view that there are all kinds of violations. That is not mentioned in the answer either. By the way, for one or two years I have been lying on my desk, indeed, there has not been any enforcement action because the judge temporarily outlawed the law. I hope the Minister will confirm this as well. That means you can't be a enforcer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	It's typical that Mrs. Lodders brings up the picture I'm sketching. I am talking about the actual situation that, at least in 2016, has visited the NVWA locations and detected violations in the form of illegal extensions that many have warned against. The promise of the previous cabinet, in which the VVD was also in, was: the NVWA finds, and when the procedure is over, the D.A. still brings it before the court. That didn't happen. Does the VVD think that's acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	Again, there are rules and procedures for that. The NVWA can take enforcement action and that's what happened. This also happened last year in two companies, and I assume the NVWA will pass it on. There can be criminal action and the Minister has confirmed this in her replies. There was no control that could not be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	In 2016, this change was not yet in force, so the NVWA could not act under administrative law. The NVWA depended on the state's attorney's office. The NVWA notes what is not going well, so to speak as if they are checking someone who takes €1,000 out of the cash from some entrepreneur. That's what's written in black and white here: someone did something that wasn't supposed to happen. The previous cabinet's promise was that the D.A. would then file it with the judge at the time when the law was "without doubt fully back in force." The latter didn't happen. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	I'm sticking to the answers I've given. Again, the NVWA checks. They can pass a violation on to the D.A.'s office. I'm assuming that's what's happening. At the time that does not happen, the NVWA will have weighed it up or at least have a good reason. I'm sticking to the Minister's answer. It indicated that, in any infringement found, only two of them could be enforced in the past year. This law is therefore superfluous. That is why I will advise my group to vote against this law. Finally, Mr President. I am also engaged in another debate, so unfortunately I have to leave this Chamber occasionally. But I'll be back, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Twenty years ago, in 1999, a motion was passed by the highest body in our parliamentary democracy, the House of Representatives. The motion stated that mink are naturally solitary living predators and that the breeding and killing of mink for fur is not justified. The motion asked the government for two things: a growth stop as soon as possible and a law to end the mink breeding as a whole in the Netherlands. At that time, some 500,000 female mints were used as breeding bitch who had to throw about five or six youngsters each year in the spring, which were then put in the gas box in autumn, when their fur was at its best. So it was about two and a half mink boy a year. Despite the political decision 20 years ago that breeding, locking up in cages and gassing mink is unethical for their fur and had to stop, it became 6 million per year. At least 90 million mink-boy gassed and skinned further, there is still no end to a practice found unacceptable by a large majority of the public and political morale. While we are standing here, 900,000 female mints are getting pregnant again so that they will give birth in their cages this spring to youngsters who have to spend their short lives in tight wire mesh cages, while they are solitary and territorial animals, until they are gassed and skinned: 4.5 to 5 million animals, until 2023. Mr. Chairman. My first question to the Minister is what she thinks it means for the Dutch people's sense of justice that a morally controversial and indeed reprehensible practice has been recognised for 20 years, but that until the end of 2023 we are allowing this, that EUR 28 million has been released for accompanying policies, in addition to the ten years of transition agreed upon, and that on top of that, another EUR 8 million will be added. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the authors of the bill at the time: Krista van Velzen and her policy officer Nicole van Gemert and Mr Waalkens of the Labour Party and his policy officer; I do not remember her name. They worked hard to get the bill through. The political decision was finally: ten years of transition. The Party for Animals also accepted that, because there was nothing more in it. We would have preferred to have stopped earlier, but there was no political majority for that. But it's quite something, isn't it? People have to accept that it's gonna go on for another ten years and there's gonna be money and there's gonna be money. And, that's what we're talking about today, what about the enforcement of the agreements in that bill? That bill said: there will be an extension ban from the moment the law comes into force. We have repeatedly asked the Cabinet for its enforcement. We know that the NVWA in any event in 2016.............................................................................................................................................................................. I believe that was the case with 31% of the sites. Since there was a legal challenge, the promise was that the NVWA could not act under administrative law at that time. We're talking about that possibility today. But if the legal grievance was over, the D.A. would bring the case before the judge. That didn't happen. Or did the Minister see that happen and didn't she report it to the Chamber? I very much hope so, but I do not have the impression that that is the case. My question is therefore about enforcement in the meantime. Did the NVWA actually send that report to the D.A.'s office, and did it stay with the D.A.'s office, or didn't the NVWA send them? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that these offenders are punished? Or does she think that it is not necessary and that just the observation that you have not complied with the law is enough? Again, what does this do with the sense of justice of people involved in these animals and of good citizens who, in general, try to comply with the law when they find that this does not seem to apply when you breed animals and felt for their fur? I'd like to get a clear answer to those questions. Mr. Chairman. Is it wise to wait so long to act, when the moral conviction is actually clear? The Party for Animals thinks that's the lesson we can learn from this, especially from that long history and the stories we now hear from CDA and VVD. Even now, we read again in the media "Norwegian farming bleeds to death empty-handed." In 1999, we already knew. Now, if you're saying "mint holders have a hard time switching over," then you haven't been paying attention, have you? However, the judge has repeatedly confirmed that the interests of mink-holders have been sufficiently taken into account. And the judge has also confirmed that a democratic society such as that in the Netherlands has the starting point that the legislator can determine that some activities are not permitted in our country. And luckily so. That's a good thing. You have to take that into account when you're an entrepreneur. Has it been wise to continue with that moral certainty, that basis, even considering how we have set up the Netherlands, but you are responsible for the entrepreneurial risks, and one of them is that fortunately this society is always set up on moral principles always to fight? Then it finally comes through, while those mink keepers have expanded enormously before that ban came into force. There you are with all your lofts. There's $3 million in the bank, so I find the CDA's plea for income compensation shocking. That does not fit in with the judgments of the judges either. Nor does it do justice to the sense of justice of Dutch people: making a great deal of money from treating animals that are considered morally reprehensible and then certainly ask for compensation! I am glad that this is not going to happen, but should we not also look ahead and see that the way animals are handled in other areas in the Netherlands is morally seriously controversial? I call it the rabbit farm. I call it duck farming. Is it not wiser, and then I start looking at the Minister, to prepare entrepreneurs for possible changes? Because one of the basic principles of our society is that we can say, on the basis of moral beliefs and ethical principles, that this is no longer acceptable. Waiting, waiting, waiting ensure that you can still be confronted with measures at the very last moment. We do not think that this is desirable for the entrepreneurs involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	The PVV has supported the cessation of fur farming in the Netherlands, with the transitional period of ten years. But we are dealing here with entrepreneurs who are seeing their public enterprise shut down. That's a big deal. I believe that the Party for Animals shows very little sympathy or compassion for this. I think that's very inappropriate. My question to Mrs Ouwehand would therefore be: do you understand that it is very profound for those entrepreneurs, who may have been building a business for generations and seeing their future disappear? And do you think now is the time to rub that in so hard a way? Is it not better to support the fate of these entrepreneurs together and to ask the Minister to help them and to do so generously?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	As far as I can see, there is a ten-year transitional period, which is a long one and goes above that transitional period 36 million euros to the mink holders. For ten years, I have found 10 times 5 million animals, i.e. 50 million animals, which are gassed during that period. And then they get money. And what Mr Madlener does not seem to realize is that in the sector there has been a deliberate expansion in anticipation of a forthcoming ban, in the hope that they were bought out. Those are entrepreneurial risks that you knowingly take on yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	I cannot judge whether there are entrepreneurs who have broken a rule. I do not think this debate is about that either. But because they 'gases animals', in your words, you put a whole group of entrepreneurs here, some 150 entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, away as some kind of criminals, and they are not. They are entrepreneurs who sell a product that is apparently in demand. We are glad that it stops in the Netherlands. That is why we have supported it. But I do think that we should take good care of the entrepreneurs, because they are already having a hard enough time. I think your attitude in this matter is far too harsh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	I think it is important to bear in mind that the ban has been extensively submitted to all the judges you can think of. In the end, the judge's judgment has always been: the starting point is that a lawmaker can prohibit a particular activity on the basis of ethics, fortunately, but the interests of mink-holders and mink-holders have been sufficiently taken into account. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	I tried to listen quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	So that didn't work out? Or a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	Well, I'm still calm, Mr. Chairman, but I don't think you should be measuring my blood pressure right now. I really think it is a shocking speech by Mrs Ouwehand. She's about to kick down to mink farmers and come up with all kinds of suspicions. Let's take a clear look back at 2016 and the so-called offences. The NVWA did that on the basis of wrong instructions with wrong definitions. They repeated this in 2016 and again in 2017. At that time, all companies complied with the laws and regulations of the Netherlands. Those are the facts. I am also sorry that Mrs Ouwehand denies that and now says that mink owners could all know that. What stone has Mrs Ouwehand been under since the ban was proclaimed? That is a specific question. Take, for example, the situation in Brabant. That is where the province has made tougher demands that the mink owners now have to deal with. Does Mrs. Ouwehand have that in view? And would she like to apologize to the mink owners for her misconceptions and retrace it to those mink holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	I'm not gonna let this get to me. I referred to the enforcement of a law which, among other things by training and lobbying of CDA and VVD, only came into force much later than it had been filed. Ms Van Velzen announced her bill on 4 October 2006. It took until 2008 before we hired him here in the Lower House, and then he had to go through the Upper Chamber. In the end, he did not enter into force until 2013. So you've moved on from animal life to animal life. The mink farm was good at his money. It is everyone's right to go to court, but so could they. In the media, they also said that smaller sectors might not have that money, but mink farming was very weak. They have tried everything to get the ban off the table. Again, that is their right, but the outcome was that the judge said: your interests have been sufficiently taken into account. If you then find that there are no enforcement results of the NVWA available for 2014 and 2015, then I suspect that it has not been looked at. Perhaps the Minister has a different answer, but Mr Geurts has found that this suspicion is not very strange. In 2016, police reports were made; it is simply written in black and white that an offence has been committed. Former Secretary of State Van Dam has promised that the D.A. would bring that to court, but we have never seen any evidence of that. Then you can't help but find that enforcement was problematic at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	I think there is little point in pointing out to Mrs Ouwehand that she makes wrong assumptions: a first check in 2016 and the fact that the NVWA uses wrong instructions or wrong definitions. This has been repeated in 2016 and 2017 and no infringements have been detected. But I think I'm gonna say this to a deaf person. Mrs Ouwehand also did not comment on my argument that, since that ban was declared, there are very different demands in Brabant than in other provinces. Would Mrs Ouwehand once again like to shed her light on the fact that these fur-animal farmers are not able to switch at all there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr President, it will then be a repetition of moves. It's been extensively reviewed by the judge. The judge says: a legislator is absolutely competent to prohibit activities in a country on the basis of moral principles. That's a good thing. You have to imagine what else we should all allow. That is the starting point. A transitional period of 10 years has been agreed. The interests of mink farmers have been sufficiently taken into account and there is 36 million available: 28 million in the existing scheme and 8 million suddenly added.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you, Mr President. The lesson is therefore that if this is the starting point, what it is fortunate to say is that the legislator can prohibit activities in a country on the basis of moral principles, it is better to take the entrepreneurs involved at an early stage. That's better than fighting it to the end, after which the inevitable has to happen. I wonder what morally problematic activities the Minister sees which may no longer be maintained in the Netherlands in the future. What plans does it have to prepare people working in the agricultural sector for another future? I don't think you should wait until the public pressure is so high that we have to. Then you're too late. Mr. Chairman. I have asked several questions about enforcement. I really want to answer the question as to whether the NVWA has now passed that report on to the D.A. and whether it has stuck there. Or is there something else going on? In the first case, is the Minister prepared to instruct the NVWA to transfer it to the D.A.'s office or, in the second case, to urge the D.A. to continue to prosecute? I'm just looking for the rest of my speech. Yes, there are a number of motions that have been adopted concerning the ban on mink farming. Fortunately, we have seen a ban in the other European countries too, even before the adoption of the bill in the Netherlands. When we adopted the bill in the Netherlands, the Animal Party said: bet on an overall European breeding ban, because that is where we have to go. This motion was adopted in 2009 and the cabinet asked once in Europe: do you think that is a good idea? Over time, several breeding bans have been introduced, for example in Belgium and Luxembourg, but the Minister has so far no sense or motivation to see if you can work with other European countries to ensure a European breeding ban. That's fair enough. So why doesn't she? Is she prepared to go on that motion after all? Mr. Chairman. Then the Chamber also asked for fur labelling. If I'm not mistaken, that was a motion from the SP Group. What's the claim with that? What opportunities does the Minister see for effectively phasing out the use and sale of fur from our society? This, too, would be in line with public morality and would do justice to the ban on production. Then you should also work towards a ban on sales. It would have been preferable to have gone a little faster than the Minister has done so far. Mr. Chairman. I'm sure I had some other points, but I don't seem to be able to find them. Yes, Mr. Geurts, that's a shame, because I'm sure the CDA would like to hear some of the other sharp points of the Party for Animals. Just give me a moment to drink a glass of water, and I'll think about where I left it. We can suspend for a while. That's always a good idea. A break, that's what you used to have on TV: break TV. Mr. Chairman. I think I'd have liked to name the export. We have discussed the export of this industry to other countries. Part of it you can't do anything about it and part of it you can. For example, export inspections, which are mandatory for other animals and not for mink. Why doesn't the Minister do anything about it? We've seen on footage of Eyes on Animals that these transports are dramatic. You shouldn't want that for two reasons. Because of the animals themselves who suffer seriously during that kind of crumbling transport, but also because of the fact that building a mink farm elsewhere is not in the interest of our ban here and of the sense of justice for the entrepreneurs that it concerns, that we have to defend here. Enforcement is very important. This law's gonna be a little late. It would have been more convenient if the NWVA had previously been able to take administrative action and was not dependent solely on the criminal trail. We very much want the offences that have been committed to be prosecuted retroactively. That's question one. Question 2: to ensure that this industry is not exported. Can the conversion and demolition arrangements be arranged in such a way that these cages are actually destroyed, melted down, you name it? These cages should no longer be able to be sold to entrepreneurs elsewhere who are going to build an industry in their own country that we have abolished here. What's gonna happen to that 8 million extra? I have asked for this earlier in written questions. I really don't know. Why is that necessary? Our proposal was to link this to the bill that has now been adopted in Belgium. This states that a much shorter transitional period should end mink farming within five years. Whoever stops earlier gets more compensation. See, that would be in the interests of the entrepreneurs and also help the animals. The minister wasn't very excited about that, but the Animal Party thought it was a good idea. Can she still explore this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the ban on European mink breeding. There is also in recent years in our neighbouring countries... Take Norway, not a member of the European Union, but part of our internal market, which will also be banned by 2024. Belgium is overstagged. Why should we not be able to do this together with all these countries? That's fair enough. Is the Minister prepared to work on effective phasing-out of fur sales in the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. For GroenLinks, this law could have been a hammerpiece. In preparing this debate, I have been diving into the archives of the GroenLinks Group. To my surprise I found a note from myself there, from 2012, when I was a policy officer of the GroenLinks Group. In the note I outlined for my Dutch MP the history of the ban on fur animal farming. I wrote: on 1 July 1999, thirteen years ago, the motion was adopted that asked the government to prepare measures to end mink farming. Behind the words "13 years ago" I had placed exclamation marks, to emphasize to my MP that it all went very slowly with the ban on keeping animals to make fur coats out of them. 1 July 1999 is now almost 20 years ago. Mrs Ouwehand mentioned it as well. I added another exclamation point in my notes. In the 2012 note, I also outlined the political playing field. CDA and VVD said: very sceptical about the intervention in free enterprise; they do not want to abolish this industry. We have just heard that, despite the many years that have passed, these parties have not yet changed their position. The same applies to GroenLinks. We are pleased that fur farming is going to disappear from the Netherlands. It took us all six years ago far too long. Now it's even longer. That is why we fully support the ban on fur farming. Mr. Chairman. In order not to delay the introduction further, I will not allow my speaking time to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV has supported the ban on mink breeding, on fur livestock farming in the Netherlands, to a majority. We are happy to take responsibility for this. We believe that fur animals, mink in this case, are wild animals, which should not be kept in small cages in an animal-friendly way. We shouldn't want that. We are therefore pleased that this will stop. We would have preferred to do so sooner, but we also said that ten years would be a reasonable transitional period in order to earn back investment and to be able to adapt to the new situation as an entrepreneur. If a government says "you have to stop your business," that's a very far-reaching measure. That is why we must also take responsibility for the entrepreneurs in question. About 150 to 200 entrepreneurial families are involved in this. It's quite something when the government says: your business is coming to an end; you can stop. That's a long way to go. I would therefore like to take advantage of this debate to ask how entrepreneurs are doing. Of course there are many, but not so many. I can imagine that there is intensive contact between the Ministry and those entrepreneurs to regularly check how things are going. How are the plans to stop? Do you want to end it completely? Do you want to demolish your company and maybe build houses there? Do you want another company? Of course, these people need to be facilitated. There is also money available for it. How's it going, I'll ask the Minister. Are those contacts there? Are all those entrepreneurs involved visited by someone from the Ministry? Is there an inventory of what the problems are? Is there an active escort? And are the problems getting out of the way? Because we also have that responsibility as a chamber. We have made a far-reaching decision. We support it, but we really need to make sure that these entrepreneurs are helped. The signals I've been getting aren't positive. I'm very curious to know what the Minister's going to say about this. This is the line in which we will look at any motions. So we support the ban. We also support this amendment of the law, because it is simply necessary, the Minister thinks. And we support her in that. But we must also emphasise the other side. We must take good care of the entrepreneurs involved. We are now halfway through the transitional period. We still have five years left, but we must make haste to be in close contact with entrepreneurs and to help entrepreneurs in a new future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	I sometimes try to find some light between what Mr Madlener says and what Mr Graus says, but when the text is so short, it is a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	So I haven't found much light yet, but I do have the next question. Financial frameworks have been agreed around the ban. There is also a Decision subsidising demolition and conversion costs. The CDA Group sees that there are specific problems in the field. Does the PVV Group agree that the funds available within these financial frameworks should be allocated more easily to the sector, in order to facilitate the cessation, as a majority of the House would like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	Yeah, absolutely. I hope I made it clear in my speech that we have a great responsibility for the future of these entrepreneurs. It's a big deal when the government says your company's dead. We therefore consider this responsibility to be important. That means it's both in a facilityal sense what are you gonna do, what do you want? (b) where financial assistance is required. There is a considerable amount of money for this and it must be put in the right place. I am also concerned that this is happening either too slowly or not generously or generously enough. I believe that we have that responsibility, and that is why I say yes to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	That is a very clear answer. We're gonna wait and see. We have already asked the Minister a few questions in this direction. It is possible that I will table a motion, and then I will see another supporter. The second question I have concerns evaluation. Mr Madlener also touched on this point on behalf of the PVV Group. Does he support an evaluation, if we propose to stop the thermometer in the course of 2021 in the progress of the implementation of this law? Is Mr Madlener going to take a positive look at that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yes. I believe, once again, that as a Chamber we have a responsibility in the supervision of these entrepreneurs so that they can stop. We should actually make that evaluation on a daily basis. If there are signs that things are not going well on that front, we are, of course, always prepared to find a solution. I don't care if that happens every year. If there are any signals, we just need to intervene. I ask the Minister to do the same for himself, to take responsibility for himself, and I assume that the Minister will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Also for D66 this could have been a hammerpiece. I would like to go back to the year 1999, when Willie Swilderens of the PvdA tabled a motion to end mink farming. It's already been memorized. On this basis, the Rathenau Institute issued an opinion and in 2001 the then D66 Minister Brinkhorst proposed a ban for the first time. I was allowed to return to history at the time as a member of staff present in the discussions on this subject. Those were intense conversations with the relevant mink owners. It is a far-reaching decision, but once it has been taken in this house after careful consideration and after careful consideration, it must be implemented. It is a pity, therefore, that the uncertainty for mink holders has been increased by the withdrawal of this measure by the Balkenende cabinet. Subsequently, the SP-Kamer Member Van Velzen came forward with an initiative law. Mr Waalkens of the PvdA later submitted it again in 2008. After several court cases the ban went into effect, and finally in 2023 the curtain falls. That means there hasn't been ice cream in one night. The initial debate has taken place, there has been another consideration and this is it. That's the way it is in this house. You may, but you must also do so in a social way, because it is about entrepreneurs, about families who had seen a future in them themselves. I have to say that they could have known from 1999 that they are in a branch of sport that is the subject of social questions. Mr. Chairman. I have one question for the Minister. There is now a bill that D66 is in favour of, because it allows you as a government to act in a more just way, should there be anything going on that violates the law. You don't want to use criminal justice right away. That's how the D66 group sees this law. My question to the Minister is whether she needs that law in order to implement the decision or whether it does so without the law. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. Finally, Mr Futselaar, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By 2024, fur animal farming in the Netherlands is definitively prohibited, as is the case in some 16 other European countries. That's a long-cherished wish from the SP. It has already been mentioned by others that it was my predecessor, Krista van Velzen, who came up with an initiative law for the ban, after a bill by Minister Brinkhorst that was fired. This was then supported by PvdA'er Waalkens and finally by a majority in parliament, which led to the adoption of the law and the entry into force of the law by 2013. This is part of the political heritage of the SP. I'm proud of that, and I stand for it. The legislative proposal before us today is actually only a logical consequence of that 2013 law. During the transitional period up to 2024 it is not allowed to start new businesses or expand existing ones. However, there is no way to maintain this, except through criminal law. The use of criminal law is not always effective and proportionate. The proposal before us is therefore not at all controversial as far as the SP is concerned. I am really surprised at the announcements by the CDA and VVD groups that they want to vote against it, because if you amend this bill, only the criminal route will be left and everyone who is enforced will be a criminal. I don't understand why you'd argue for that. Mr Geurts referred quite emotionally to a sentence in the text: this means that these sanctions are intended to add the offender suffering. This is about the criminal route, and this proposal adds an alternative, the administrative route. I therefore find it strange if parties, even those representing the mink sector, reject this proposal unless they do not want it to be maintained, but I assume that is not what these parties mean. For my party, however, it is a question of why it took five years for this legislation to come into being, especially since the actual legislative proposal ultimately consists of two sentences. I explicitly ask the Minister about this. I can imagine that it is difficult for her to speak for her predecessors, but that is the administrative responsibility. It is strange that we have had to wait five years for this logical proposal. A number of political groups have asked in writing whether there have been cases in recent years that have not been maintained due to the lack of an administrative framework. That is a legitimate question; I agree. We know, for example, that there has been illegal enlargements. They've been there, whatever else you think. The Minister states that in recent years there has been no failure to maintain due to lack of administrative resources. However, I would like to ask whether the NVWA or any other controlling authority, let's say a municipality or an environmental service, may have waived control of a particular aspect because of the lack of administrative capacity, saying: we think it is a lot of animals, but yes, we only have criminal law to enforce. That seems to be under this bill, because otherwise I would almost say that CDA and VVD are right with the question why we are actually doing this. Or is it purely because it is neat to have both a criminal and an administrative route? I would like to have some explanation from the Minister. Furthermore, the SP intends to vote in favour of the proposal. However, I would also like to respond to the comments that are not about the legislative proposal before us, but about the subsidy scheme. 28 million has been made available for demolition costs. If that amount doesn't turn out right, I think we should look at that. I'd like to do that hand-me-down. I have the impression that the Minister is talking to the sector about the bottlenecks. I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, it would be a good idea to use it for mink farmers who want to stop before 2024, so that we can make a profit there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I see the Minister needs a suspension of about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	I will reopen the meeting and give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the contribution of Members to the legislative proposal. I had the impression that the input was a little more about things that go outside the bill than they have to do with the bill. But of course, your Chamber is always free to talk about anything. We are talking here about an amendment to a law, the ban on fur farming, which was established at the initiative of your Chamber itself. The aim of this Act is to phase out fur farming in the Netherlands on 1 January 2024. As has just been announced by many Members, there is a transitional period. The fur animal keepers may continue to keep those fur animals until that date under conditions, but there is also provision for a subsidy measure, including for demolition and conversion, to accommodate and facilitate these fur animal keepers in order to move to another circumstance. The amendment of the law now before us is aimed at adding a possibility of administrative enforcement to the law. At the moment, there is only one possibility for criminal enforcement. This means that if the NVWA visits a company and finds a possible violation, it will immediately proceed to criminal law. And Mr Futselaar already mentioned it: then you immediately have a criminal record. That is fine, also in terms of proportionality, a fierce one. In all the legislation we have in these areas, we have a recovery option and a punitive option, restoration of administrative law and punitive criminal law. That second part, which is administrative, is not included in this law, and as a result you have to put in place a very serious instrument, namely criminal law, at the time of detection of an offence. My predecessor in office has therefore promised the Chamber to supplement the Act on the Prohibition of fur animals farming with those administrative reparations. That is what we are doing with this bill, and as a result, the NVWA can also impose an administrative burden or a penalty charge to stop any violations as quickly as possible. For the record, this proposal is not the result of a large number of infringements in fur farming. A number of Members have also asked questions about this. Was that the reason? Or is it not possible to take adequate action against this? I also mentioned this in the note on the report, in which I also mentioned the number of infringements in the past year. The reason and necessity of the legislative proposal lie in the principle that the method we apply must be proportionate and that we must apply the same system as in legislation similar to it. At the moment, therefore, the NVWA can give a warning on the one hand and criminal action on the other. That's what it's like now. So the answer to all the questions about the reason for the legislative proposal is actually quite a sober observation. If you've committed an offense now, you'll end up in criminal law at the risk of getting a criminal record. That's a proporitonic issue. At the same time, you can introduce a recovery measure in this way, which will enable you to proceed more quickly to recovery than by means of criminal law, where you will subsequently assess the whole situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	Is this a general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u57	This was actually the reason for the bill. These were also about the only questions about the bill. The rest was more about all sorts of things around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u58	That's how it's done here. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u59	I would like to go back to the Minister's comment on whether this legislative amendment is a response to the large number of offences detected. Can the Minister confirm that in 2016 and 2017 this was actually the question that Mrs Ouwehand asked me in the first term.......................................................................................................................................... I had that checked out, too. Is it true that the NVWA then returned with the proper instructions and that all companies were then found to comply with the law? I think that is important, otherwise we will be stuck around here as if a lot of companies had committed infringements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u60	I have here an overview of the number of violations. I also gave that summary to the Chamber, in the note on the report. In it you can see that 21 inspections were carried out in 2018, with 2 infringements recorded: 1 a warning and 1 a police report. In 2017, there was one case in violation of which police reports were also made. In 2016, there was some kind of peak in it. At that time there were 64 inspections, with 21 infringements detected. Those violations saw at that time the number of animals kept on the farms. I am not aware that this has been done on the basis of false instructions to the NVWA. It is true that at the time it was agreed with the Public Prosecutor's Office that a report of findings was drawn up in 2016. This also had to do with the fact that the Supreme Court had at that time to rule on the cassation that had been imposed on the bill. The 21 companies were visited again in 2017. That's when one more offense was found. I indicated that there was also a record of this at the time. So those are the backgrounds to the previously given figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u61	I call Mr Futselaar. Oh, Mrs. Lodders first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u62	I think this is important. I can't ask the Minister right now, at least I understand the information isn't there. However, I would like to prevent a lot of violations that have not been enforced from being detected. Perhaps the Minister could come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u63	I think I just indicated that it didn't happen on the basis of wrong instructions for the NVWA. This had something to do with counting. More animals would have been kept than would have been possible under environmental legislation. Only then, in consultation with the State's Attorney's Office, a report of findings was drawn up, because it also had to do with the legal phase in which the bill on the ban on fur farming was in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u64	Then Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u65	Maybe first Mr Geurts on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u66	Does it have to do with this, Mr. Geurts? Then you can go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u67	Oh, yeah. It also has to do with the interruption I made on Mrs Ouwehand's contribution. Wrong instructions, or at least wrong definitions were used at the beginning of 2016. This had to do with the fact that female animals were considered breeding animals at the time. But the animal is only a breeding animal after puppies were born in May. So that has to do with a wrong definition and with that it has to do with wrong instructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u68	It is not known to me that mistakes have been made here, or whatever. I shall return to it in the second term. I have simply given the factuality of the figures that are now available. The question of whether the figures have given rise to the amendment of this law, I answer with no. I just indicated what the reason for the law is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u69	I have two questions. The first relates to Mr Geurts's speech, which states that there is already a criminal road and that the administrative road is still on its way. Do I see it right that these are two alternative routes, and that there are actually multiple choices for enforcement now, but that it is not the idea that they are used at the same time, at least not always?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u70	No, it becomes exactly the same as in any other situation where you have an administrative route and a criminal route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u71	Further on, the next question. In fact, an additional tool is placed here in the toolbox of the maintainer. Is it conceivable that if this law had been in force three years ago, instead of either a warning or the criminal route, I would have chosen administrative enforcement, because it would have been more appropriate, whereas there were now only the options "warning" or "criminal route"? Of course, enforcers also look at the proportionality of the measure and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's speculation. Then I really need to have an insight into the cases involved. I can't do that from here, so that seems complicated to me. At the same time, you have here, in fact, exactly what Mr Futselaar said in his speech, at the moment a means in your hands that is rather intense in the sphere of proportionality. You do not have that via the administrative route, and it can be much more direct towards recovery. It is actually the normal toolbox as we have in other legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u74	Okay, Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, quite a few questions have been asked about the Decision on aid for scrapping and conversion costs for fur livestock farming. Both CDA and VVD have questions about the use of the accompanying policy and the limitations in the scheme as they are experienced by these members. We are currently looking at the operation of this scrapping and conversion scheme. I'm gonna take a few questions together, 'cause it's kind of messed up, but it's connected. There are discussions at official level with the representatives of the fur animals farmers to see what they are up against. Those conversations took place. I have also heard Members' questions as to whether I myself am prepared to hear me again with the representatives of this sector. I'm willing to do that. That is what I want to do, to hear from them themselves what is going on and what experiences there are. Those talks also talk about the limitations that are experienced. If we have an arrangement, it must, of course, work well. It's no use making an arrangement, and if it doesn't work, it's too bad, we're moving on. That's not the point. We have to see if it fits into the state aid frameworks that exist. That is a limiting framework for us. What we do must fit in there. I also think it is important that if we have an arrangement, we can pay it out well at some point. If we are already getting cases adjusted throughout the State aid path........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then the fur animal holders who want to go further and who also want to go in a different direction are also limited in that. This is exactly the conversation we're having. This is also the conversation I will have with the fur animal farmers myself, about how we can make that arrangement effective. If that is the case, I shall inform the Chamber about the outcome, because I suspect that she would like to have a little more insight into it. In this connection, Mr Madlener asked if I would be prepared to visit all these companies myself. It's not like our officials are visiting all these companies right now. I think it is the most important thing that we have an arrangement that works and that also meets what is needed in the accompanying policy to meet the fur animal farmers. We do not need to visit all companies themselves, but we do have close contact with the sector about the situation. Those conversations should be on that, too. Mr Geurts asked how many mink holders had already been able to make use of the subsidy. Five applications have now been submitted. Of these, two have been granted, one is pending, one has been withdrawn and one has been rejected. That is the current state of affairs around the numbers of mink holders. He also asks how many mink holders have used the rest of the accompanying policy. The rest of the accompanying policy concerns the reinvestment reserve. It is governed by tax law, so entrepreneurs can use it. I don't have any numbers. That's not exactly defined. We have not received any requests so far regarding pension provision. In addition, of course, we have the subsidy scheme, of which I have just indicated the numbers. Mr Geurts asked about the grant requirement that a company has been in continuous operation for the past five years, or that is the intention of the law. We will then be placed in the framework of state aid. The subsidy scheme is classified as State aid, which the European Commission is required to approve. It follows from that authorisation that only production capacity which has been used effectively and continuously during the last five years for closure can be subsidised. That is simply in the framework of state aid. The reason for this is that the buildings still have to be used for serious business activities at the time of application, as there must also be an incentive effect of the subsidy. I naturally take into account short-term vacancy in relation to regular business processes. This is a point that I will discuss further with the sector. Mr Geurts asked about the socio-economic plan and Mrs Lodder also pointed this out. The sector has been invited to draw up it, with a view to consulting, transferring knowledge, retraining, vocational training and information. Mr Geurts asks how these talks are going. We have indeed discussed with the sector that it is up to us to indicate what is needed in this context in the socio-economic plan. At the end of January, I received a first concept of the socio-economic plan from the sector. We will have further discussions with the sector at the end of this month on what has been submitted. So we're in the middle of this discussion. Then there was a question from Mr Geurts through Mrs Ouwehand, or from Mrs Ouwehand through Mr Geurts, one of the two, how the 8 million extra was created and how it would be used. You have seen this, and I have also informed the Chamber of this in the letter on the means to clean up pig farming that I will add 8 million of this to the funds already available, 28 million, for the accompanying policy for fur farming. How resources are deployed is part of the discussion with the sector. We have, among other things, discussions about the socio-economic plan. These are also the discussions we are having about the effectiveness of the accompanying policy measure we already have, the demolition and conversion and the obstacles experienced there. Those are the means to meet them. The aim is to provide a good transitional opportunity for fur farming. I myself was not in this Chamber at the time when I dealt with the bill. I have heard that many Members have been involved in a different role here. I do know that there was a Chamber-wide conviction that if we introduce this ban, there should be a decent transition for these fur animal owners. You can see, for example, that prices are under pressure. The return on investment, on which the ten-year period was based, including the revenue expectations that could be generated by it, is fluctuating. As a result, it is quite difficult for the fur animals farmers to operate economically. That was the reason for the transition and the accompanying policy that has been given. With this 8 million, we believe that accompanying policies can be better shaped, as was the case at the time when the law was being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u75	We asked earlier where the estimate that there should be 8 million more is based. My question is: there is already 28 million and there is a transitional period of ten years. The judge has said that the interests of the mink holders have been sufficiently taken into account and that the bill is legitimate. Now there's another $8 million. I think it would be only fair to link that it should also help the animals. So we can look at the model that Belgium uses: the sooner you stop, the higher the fee. Is the Minister prepared to take that with her when she examines how the scheme works? I agree with the Minister that this arrangement must work, otherwise you will have rigged it for nothing. But it's about the principle that stopping earlier also pays off. Then the animals will also benefit and the spending of taxpayers' money will also be easier to justify to the public. Is the Minister willing to take that with her when she looks at the arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u76	These are the talks we are having with the sector. I'll take this with me if it helps the sector. That is what I think is most important: what works for the sector? They must be able to shape that transitional period. The accompanying policy is really aimed at that. So I will take this as an option in the conversation with the sector. I'll ask if it'll help them do it this way. That's what I find leading in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u77	The Minister talks about "the sector" all the time, but at the same time she says she is not prepared to talk to individual entrepreneurs herself. At least she doesn't. We're talking about 150 people here. "The sector" may be someone, but if an entrepreneur, if it's just one, has questions about his future or wants to stop sooner, then it should be possible. You don't have to do that with the sector, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u78	Perhaps the Minister could explain exactly what she means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u79	An image is being sketched as if I just don't want to talk to those people. I think I just indicated that I will. But it's also normal for you to do that with representatives of a sector. It is not the case that we get all the Members from any sector. We ask those who speak on behalf of a group to do so. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u80	I understand that the Minister says: I want to speak to representatives of the sector. That's fine, too. But suppose there is now an entrepreneur who hears this debate and thinks: I actually want to stop next year; I am curious. Who's he gonna call? What's he gonna do? Is the Minister prepared to free an official to assist this entrepreneur so that he says with Mrs Ouwehand's idea: I am going to stop earlier and I see that this is also financially beneficial to me? Then indeed you and the animal suffering stopped earlier and helped the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u81	Then I'd call those people to give that to the people I'm talking to. Those are people who can speak very well on behalf of those others and who can bring that into the discussion in which we are going to determine what is the most effective way of shaping this. It's going really well. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u82	I have a few wishes too, but let us wait and see the results of that consultation. There's something that's not quite clear to me yet. We have $28 million for the demolition schemes. The Minister has said that five people have so far come forward. Apart from what is the reason, perhaps it is complicated or unfeasible, and so on, I do not understand why you can then come to the conclusion that the 28 million is not enough and that 8 million should be added. That's a strange consideration for me. On the one hand, how can you see that we have a subsidy scheme that is not very well signed up for, and on the other hand we have another scheme with extra money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u83	It is not the case that there are all different arrangements now. We have the grant scheme. We also have the socio-economic plan. That is not a very separate arrangement; that is just a plan. We have also asked about this: what do you think is needed to make that transition more possible? Because that's what we've been aiming for. I indicated that when the ban was imposed, we also looked at the earning capacity of mink farmers on the resources they have. They've made investments. A transitional period of 10 years has been introduced. Account has also been taken of the income or earning capacity of mink farmers during that period. There have been considerable fluctuations in that. There have also been worse years in economic terms, which makes it more difficult for mink farmers to earn back. That can be considered in the consideration of whether you want to go on, yes or no, and that in turn affects how much money is available to those mink owners. That is why we have decided to add extra money so that we can facilitate and facilitate this transition and make it possible, and so that it really becomes an arrangement that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u84	Let me get this straight. If I understand correctly, the cabinet comes up with an extra pot of money because the mink market has collapsed reasonably and the economic conditions are now so bad that extra investment is needed. Is that about the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u85	The design of the transitional arrangements took into account the earning capacity or earning capacity of mink farming. We see it's gotten smaller. This has an impact on the assumptions made at the time and on the amount exempted for that purpose. As a result, we feel responsible for making extra money available, precisely in order to facilitate and shape this transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mrs Lodders has also asked whether there has been talk of bottlenecks. Yes, that has indeed been done at official level. It's also scheduled to be followed up. I just turned that in. Moreover, some of your members have already mentioned the main bottlenecks mentioned. These are the deadline for the conversion of up to one year, the 50% scrapping subsidy and the point that the sites must have been in continuous operation for the last five years. We are really looking at that seriously. Mrs Lodders has asked questions about the emergency cry of the municipality of Bakel. I think it's Gemert-Bakel. Here again, the question is whether concrete steps can be taken. We are now looking at concrete steps. The problem at Gemert-Bakel is, as far as I know, particularly in the area of spatial planning and the environment, which is also a responsibility of the province and the municipality. I will respond shortly to the socio-economic plan presented by the sector, but first we will discuss it with the sector itself. The Party for Animals has asked a number of questions, some more abstract questions about the moral feeling in society, so to speak, and about how which animals should be kept and whether they should be kept. I think that is precisely the debate that is always taking place here in the Chamber. I have the feeling that what Mrs Ouwehand thinks is morally acceptable or unacceptable is different for others. So that debate is taking place right here. Mrs Ouwehand asks: can the Minister prepare the sector, in broad terms, for what society finds unacceptable? My answer is: she can simply put forward motions here on what she considers morally unacceptable. If they get a majority of the people here, so the people who make the choices in them, they can start doing so. To leave her moral sense of what is right and wrong to lead the way for what the rest of the Chamber finds here... I just get the impression there's some light in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u88	I ask because the Minister himself also says that she is a bit upset that the discussion about the rights of and the handling of animals in society is becoming too sharp in her own words. I think it's a very normal democratic process for you to talk about that in society. Moreover, it would be nice if the moral views of the Party for Animals were to be led here. So far, I have referred in particular to the animal promises made in 2002. "By 2022 at the latest, animals may show their natural behaviour in livestock farming'. I wonder: what responsibility does the Minister feel for the sense of justice in society? Politics said 27 years ago that cutting pig tails is actually not acceptable, but now, 27 years later, we are still doing it. What responsibility does it have for this discussion and for the sense of justice of citizens that we must also serve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u89	A number of things are now getting very close to each other: the sense of justice of citizens versus what natural behavior would mean for the entire animal husbandry in the Netherlands. These are exactly the discussions we are having here! What exactly does that mean in everyday practice for animal husbandry? I think we are having that debate. I think it is exactly this, and these are also the issues that I raised in my policy letter on animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u90	But today we are talking about the ban on fur farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr President, I am simply trying to answer Mrs Ouwehand's question. She says that my view is that the debate is getting too sharp. Yes, I do. If people are threatened, if houses are damaged for the sake of a fire that has taken place, then I do think it goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u92	There's no misunderstanding about that. Threats and intimidation are always out of the question. Fortunately, we have the rule of law, in which people can be prosecuted. That's what I'm supposed to do. But it is about the Minister himself saying that farmers feel put in the corner, which is the result of a political debate, in which political leaders are called upon to fail to keep promises. My question is simply: what responsibility does the Minister feel for the sense of justice among citizens and what responsibility does she feel for bringing entrepreneurs into a future that is in keeping with that sense of justice? You can walk away from that, but then you get these kinds of situations, after 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mrs Ouwehand and Minister, a wide-ranging debate was held on 24 January on these issues. So I want us to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u94	I'm being asked a question, but okay. I won't answer that anymore. I think I've already made my position clear. I would like to say the following. Mrs Ouwehand suggests that not giving political substance to a moral view of Mrs Ouwehand automatically leads to situations of threat, intimidation or whatever. I think that's a really bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u95	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u96	I have to correct that. I mean situations like this, that we are standing here in a debate about mink farming and that we should actually note that no one is happy. The animals are not, because they are gassed for years to come. And the mink holders are also in a difficult situation. This can be avoided by acting earlier on the moral views of society. That's my point. I'm not saying you're gonna get threats. They're always out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u97	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u98	"The moral views in society." I think this is where the debate is about what that is. That is not necessarily always the view of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mrs Ouwehand also asked about enforcement. What happened to that? Did the NVWA send the minutes to the D.A.'s office? And what did the D.A. do with that? Yes, the NVWA forwarded the minutes to the D.A.'s office. What the D.A.'s gonna do with that is up to the D.A. That is how we have arranged it in this country. They are the ones who decide whether to take further steps. I wouldn't like to be a politician to decide what the D.A.'s office should or shouldn't do. I think we have quite strict divisions between them. That seems very healthy to me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u101	Have all of Mrs Ouwehand's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u102	Uh, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u103	Then I suggest you do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u104	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u105	And then you will have the opportunity, Mrs Ouwehand. At least I'll see how many questions Mrs Ouwehand has left. If there are still too many, you will have the floor. But if the Minister asks your questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u106	I have three more questions from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u107	Okay, I'll go see Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister outlines what is usually customary: the prosecution is about it itself. However, in this case, Secretary of State Van Dam informed the Chamber that "the D.A. has been agreed upon." This is an agreement between the Cabinet and the Public Prosecutor "that during the cassation procedure, the NVWA will detect offenders of the Law on the Prohibition of Pelsdier Farming and will draw up a report. (...) If the appeal is dismissed, the appeal shall be brought before the court." So that's a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u109	I have just indicated that those 21 cases, that report of findings, see exactly the statement by Mr Van Dam here, that after that, in 2017, there was another check at these companies, that there was one offense and that that report was forwarded to the State's Attorney's Office. I'm not about the D.A.'s office, and I don't even want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u110	I very much agree with the Minister under other circumstances, but in this case an agreement has been made with the Public Prosecutor and is in line with the expectation that that agreement will be complied with or that at least the Cabinet will insist that the Public Prosecutor do what was agreed at that time. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u111	I gave my answer. I'm not running the DA's office, and I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u112	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mrs Ouwehand also asks what I do about the transports. There is no EU obligation to control the transport of mink. The Dutch breeding animals will hardly be moved elsewhere either. I went into this in more detail in reply to questions put by Mrs Ouwehand. It also asks whether it is possible for used materials to be sold abroad. That is possible; we have no restrictions on that. But I also understand from the sector that there is little or no interest in this at the moment. Mrs Ouwehand also asks about the overall EU ban on breeding. At the time, the cabinet asked for this in Europe, with the European Commissioner. At that time, the European Commission indicated that it would take account of subsidiarity and proportionality on such a subject. That seemed to me to be a fairly clear answer from the European Commission. They have not gone any further, so I do not see any reason to go back to that now. Mrs Ouwehand also asks about the possibility of a total ban on fur. Such a ban should immediately affect all European markets. We have a single market and this requires a European approach. Only a Dutch ban is therefore not possible because of free movement. I note that there are no ideas or intentions about this in Europe right now. Then Mr Futselaar asked whether the control authorities had waived aspects. I have just indicated that this is not the case in the interrupting debate. The question "would have been so," I find it difficult to answer, because I don't know the individual cases and that doesn't seem to me to be something we should want. I have already answered Mr Madlener's question. Mr President, I think I have given all the answers to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u115	Oh, yes, and Mrs Bromet has done most of her self-plagiarism, I have noted. And I think it's okay this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u116	Yeah, that was pretty good, too. Thank you. Then I see Mrs. Lodders. Did you happen to ask a question that you didn't answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u117	Well, almost. I realize that I did not ask a question, but I did address the personal suffering and the drama in my speech, and I do not really hear the Minister reflect on it. I regret that, so I would ask the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u118	A democratic process has taken place here, which has led to a ban on the keeping of fur animals, on fur farming. At the same time, I think it is very important to ensure that during the transitional period the accompanying policy is used as we have intended. That's my responsibility, too. I understand, therefore, that the questions of the Chamber have largely been answered. I can imagine that this has really led to very complicated situations for a number of fur animals farmers, or perhaps even at this point in time. That is why I think it is so important that we take that responsibility to ensure that the transition period is actually going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you for this response. I will continue to do so again in the second term. It seems that we need this debate to intensify the discussion with the sector and the fur animal farmers concerned. I started, or actually ended, by saying that we will not reverse the ban. That is not the question I am raising here either, but the way in which these people have been treated. That just hurts me. That is not a reproach to the Minister, because it implements laws and regulations which have been adopted by a majority here. But I think we should also realise that we can consider the personal suffering of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Oh, wait a minute. Mrs Ouwehand still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u121	I also asked for the enforcement of the specific ban from the extension law in the years before 2016. I did not see any documents about 2014, 2015 and 2013 nor did the NVWA check for the extension ban. That question was still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u122	In my view, I indicated that I gave an overview of the infringements and their enforcement in the note relating to the report. That started with 2013. You can see exactly how many times have been maintained and how many offences have been detected. This is also apparent from the animal numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u123	You did mention that at the beginning. I call Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fur farmers and their families have been affected by social and economic problems by the practical implementation of the Act on the Prohibition of fur farming;]] [[calls on the Government, within the financial frameworks already agreed, to make short-term adjustments to the Decision on aid for scrapping and conversion costs for fur farming in order to solve specific problems and facilitate the allocation of funds available;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a mid-term review before 1 January 2021 of the Act on the Prohibition of fur farming and, in particular, to evaluate the functioning of the accompanying policy for the phasing out of fur farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35006-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u125	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the Netherlands and the European Union it is permitted to trade and sell fur;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate this year which countries in the European Union have relocated the Dutch breeding of fur animals and how the rules are with regard to the rearing conditions of noble animals in the various Member States and how this relates to the Dutch circumstances, and whether European subsidies have been granted in some Member States in this CAP period for mink farming there,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35006-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u126	I can answer Mr Geurts' last question: yes, that subsidy was granted in Greece, among other things. I have already made a written contribution to the Minister myself once. My question concerns the motion. You actually want to know where the Dutch fur production has moved to. I was wondering what the motion would bring. To my knowledge, the vast majority of companies are still active in the Netherlands. So I'm looking for the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u127	Here's what I'm looking for. The CDA has also argued in its input when this law was dealt with that this stops in the Netherlands but continues in a different place, under less conditions than in the Netherlands. In my view, fur animals are kept in the Netherlands under the best conditions, when I look at Europe and the rest of the world. I would like to know whether the relocation we were arguing about at the time has already taken place. Mr Futselaar is right about Greece. I know that's right. That was 45%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u128	It is good that we agree on something in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u129	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u130	Well, we've been on the same page before, Mr. Futselaar. We just don't name it when we agree. Mr President, I have a few final words. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to speak to the representatives of the mink farmers themselves. I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to bringing the 36 million into the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for the answers to the questions that have been asked. I would like to comment on a few points, first of all on the enforcement figures and the infringements that would have been noted in 2016. I've been checking with the sector. As a result of these violations, I am told that the NVWA and the sector have been in consultation with each other, that checks have been carried out again and that there have never been too many animals. I really want that cleared up, because I don't want the impression that a lot of offences have been committed. Mr. Chairman. This is a debate involving a great deal of emotion, not least of all those entrepreneurs who are concerned with the decision that has been taken in the past. It is certainly also a question of the scrapping and conversion scheme. These entrepreneurs still have to deal with this. That's a lot of hassle, stress and emotion. People are doing very different things than you'd expect. What I regret is that I feel that this feeling is also shared by a number of people outside this Chamber, and that it seems that we need this debate in order to have the conversation and to speed up the approach to demolition and conversion, so that it may offer some perspective and perspective for people. I have another question about that. We've just filed a motion to move on quickly. I supported it. Can the Minister confirm that the commitment is to make the 36 million actually benefit the sector? The scheme needs to be adapted in such a way that the 36 million will be made available to the sector. Of course, this must be done within the framework of state aid rules, but I believe that there is room for manoeuvre. Then the municipality of Gemert-Bakel. I asked the Minister earlier for a response to the letter sent by the municipality. There seems to have been little concrete action in the intervening period. I hope that after the discussion with the sector there may also be a reaction towards the municipality of Gemert-Bakel. Because there is a need for clarity because of the number of companies. Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated in the first term that my group sees no need to support this amendment. I will advise my group not to do that next Tuesday either. I hope that all the energy from the Ministry and the Minister is focused on providing these entrepreneurs with more clarity and perspective very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you, Mr President. It might be good to note something about the debate on animal welfare and the sharpness of that debate. If the law resulting from an adopted motion from 1999 to put an end to the breeding of animals for their fur fox and chinchilla were already prohibited, it was only mink... was simply adopted in 2002 and had had its normal process, the Party for Animals was probably not even established. The reason for this was that politics wiped out a long-discussed decision. Then we thought, "Now we have to come and fight for the animals ourselves."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u135	This was such a face-to-face I couldn't let it pass. Now that this law is as it is now, hasn't the Party become superfluous for the Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u136	It is my fervent ambition to be able to lift the Party for Animals. Unfortunately, however, we are still too much needed, as is evident in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u137	But Mrs Ouwehand just told the Chamber that fur animal farming is the reason why the Party for Animals was founded. Now that this has come to an end in the Netherlands, however I regret it, is the basis of the Party for Animals gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u138	The reason was to wipe out the mink breeding ban and the underlying reason is, of course, that the majority in politics does not want to listen to the changing moral views in society. Unfortunately, I still see the evidence of that today, and that is why we need to stay here. If Mr. Geurts wants me out of here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u139	Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u140	Make sure you do your job so we can lift ourselves up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u141	Proceed, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u142	There are therefore important lessons to be learned from the entire course of how we can eventually reach a ban on the breeding of mink in the Netherlands, because even if the law is passed and in force, it will continue until the end of 2023. Then it's important to realize the following. Actually, the belief was already there to stop the mink breeding. When that didn't happen, welfare investments were chosen. Then you can think: well, that's a little less bad for the animals at least. But the big disadvantage is that then, because entrepreneurs have made investments, the return to the original point becomes more difficult. We were already convinced that this is morally unacceptable. Then why should you take the animals, which have to suffer longer because you cannot quickly go for a ban, and also take the entrepreneurs hostage for so long? That is the reason why we often get questions about what we are talking about, for example, that we do not go along with a small improvement in welfare that should apply to the whole sector and in which the whole sector should invest, if you already know that it is morally impossible. I call it the ban on rabbit breeding. We have known for so long that these animals suffer incredibly in the cages in which they are kept. A welfare path has been set in motion, when we really need to get to a ban. Mr. Chairman. I tried to pass that important lesson on to the Minister today. That didn't go very well, as you noticed, but we're not giving up. I think it is important to note that in the debate on animal welfare and the position of animals, the Minister has a great responsibility for how it is discussed in society. It takes ten years for mink breeding to be effectively abolished and 36 million in taxpayers' money goes. However, on the basis of its own data, it was found in 2016 that the law is not being complied with, that the extension ban has been infringed and that it is not being enforced. Yes, I see Mrs. Lodders shaking her head, but the Minister's information is: 21 violations at 60 visited locations. If that's different, the Minister has a problem, because this is what she wrote to the Chamber, and I base myself on that. So do not maintain, give 36 million and wait ten years, when we are actually already ten years further than the original moment when this Chamber had said that it should end. I think it is really important that the Minister realizes that a lot of people in society think: yes, what does that government actually do for animals? People get angry. Feel responsible for the violated sense of justice of citizens in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u143	This is, in fact, a second deadline, and usually that is also the time to give some sort of final judgment and not to re-examine the debate. But go ahead, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr President, I will try to stick to one question. Does Mrs Ouwehand realize that with the position of the Party for the Animals in this Chamber, the suffering of the animals she talks about moves to countries where animal welfare is far more appalling than in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u145	The VVD itself is involved in this. It itself votes against motions which state that there must be an export inspection for all types of animals. You don't have to do that for minks. For mink there is an exception when checking, so that those transports without inspection huppakee! It has been stuffed into Poland. The Animal Party says: let's not do that; not for the animals, but not for the entrepreneurs either. We say here: this mink breeding, we don't do that anymore. And then the VVD is against! And then they're here trying to make the interrupting microphone the point that exports are being made to other countries. Yeah, with the VVD's permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u146	Proceed, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. Let us make sure that the misery is over as quickly as possible, for entrepreneurs and for animals. The Minister has made a commitment to look at the idea from Belgium to reward earlier stops in the discussion on whether the scheme for demolition and conversion costs is running. We are waiting for that discussion, but I shall table a motion so that we can put it to the vote if it does not come out sufficiently. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in addition to the EUR 28 million earmarked for subsidising the demolition or conversion costs of mink-farming stables, a further EUR 8 million is allocated from the budget for the rehabilitation and sustainability of pig farming to the cessation of mink-farming;]] [[whereas Flanders has attached to the prohibition on mink breeding a compensation scheme linking the amount of the amount to the time when a holding stops, which is rewarded earlier;]] [[calls on the Government to use the financial resources available for the elaboration of the ban on mink breeding to speed up the phasing-out of mink farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make compulsory the demolition of cages when demolishing or converting mink farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35006-8]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35006-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u148	I am counting on the support of the VVD, because these motions are therefore to prevent cages from being placed elsewhere in countries. This bill creates the administrative capacity to enforce. That's great, but it should have been sooner. The dispute between the Minister and the Party for Animals about the offences detected and the decision not to enforce them must be settled. I find it unbelievable that the cabinet says to the Chamber that the NVWA is going to inspect and has written down that the law has been broken somewhere, but that it will not be prosecuted. That's not good for the sense of justice, and it's not good for the animals either. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister reports that the NVWA found 21 breaches of the extension ban in 2016 when inspecting mink breeding;]] [[noting that the then State Secretary made arrangements with the NVWA and the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[invites the Government to send these agreements to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35006-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u149	For the sake of completeness, the agreement notified to the Chamber was that the D.A. would bring it before the court. I want to be able to check those appointments. The most important thing is that these offences still have to be punished. And that's why I'm coming up with my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister reports that the NVWA found 21 breaches of the extension ban in 2016 when inspecting mink breeding;]] [[noting that the then State Secretary had agreed with the NVWA and the Public Prosecutor's Office not to use criminal jurisdiction during the cassation period in the event of suspected violations of the law and that the Office would bring cases before the court if the appeal was dismissed, what had happened;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to prosecuting the offences detected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35006-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I shall now give the floor to Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As an ex-entrepreneur, I always have some sort of aversion against the government and all those rules. It's so complicated. You can have nice debates here, but the practice is often very difficult. I have already said that we have a great responsibility to those entrepreneurs. There's only about 150 of them. That's very clear. The minister says she's going to talk to "representatives" of the 150. I always get a little suspicious. Quite a coincidence, some of those mink breeders are watching. One of them just e-mailed me. I do not know him personally; I can announce him to the Minister after the debate, but I will not do so in public. This gentleman has just written to me: "The financial situation of mink-holders is so bad." Now my wife calls; I have to push them away, sorry "that the transition period is not working. I have to agree to the breeding ban, but do deserve the opportunity to earn back the investments made"... Now she's calling again. Sorry, Veronique.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u153	She's calling again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u154	Yeah, it's Valentine's Day tomorrow, so I'm gonna make it up to you. This gentleman writes: "I have to resign to the breeding ban, but deserve the opportunity to earn back the investments made and switch to other industries." I think we all agree on that. These people deserve help. There's money for that, too. I asked him how he was doing in practice: are you being helped and how is communication? What's he writing to me? "Guidelines and communication are absent. The scrapping and conversion arrangements are too complex and insufficient." That is precisely what I fear: that we are having nice debates here, but that in practice there are state aid rules, that the municipality does not cooperate and that the province is equally difficult. Then there's nothing left. I would like to tell the Minister that we have to deal well with these entrepreneurs, that there is money, that there is the will to guide these people and that 150 is a very small number. So I ask the Minister once again: make your phone number available, help those who have questions, do so together with the municipalities and solve the problems. Let us not hide behind all kinds of rules, because these entrepreneurs do not deserve it. I hope the Minister will agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u155	Thank you. Finally, Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP. He doesn't have anything on him, so we can't call him in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr. President, I left my phone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u157	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u158	...to prevent me from being called by Mr. Madlener's wife.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u159	After all, it's almost Valentine's Day. Mr President, a few small points. Today, a large part of it was about the subsidy and scrapping scheme. I think it's okay if we look at that again. The Minister has promised to talk to the sector and to inform us about it. That's good. I think that motions that anticipate that are a little premature, so we wait and see what the Minister comes up with. That leaves the proposal. I have already announced the agreement of the SP. I would like to say one more word to the parties who have announced that they will vote against the proposal. That means something, namely that you are actually sending out the signal that you think fur farmers who commit offences should be prosecuted. I would like to say that this is the kind of language I expect from Mrs Ouwehand, but not from the VVD and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u160	All right, thank you, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u161	No, I'm Fuzzler!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u162	Oh, yeah! I wonder how Mrs Madlener got on your phone, Mr Futselaar. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then Mr Madlener can call me back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u163	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr President, I have a number of motions and a number of questions from your Members. The first motion by Mr Geurts on item No. 6 calls for a short-term adaptation of the decision to solve specific problems. The motion also calls for a mid-term review of the operation. I am prepared to comply with the first request; I also think that this is a good proposal. We are already talking about this with those who really need to make use of the scheme, because they need to be able to assess whether something is working or not. The second request is a mid-term review. The term "evaluation" has quite a heavy load, also in terms of how to handle it. But I have a bit of a feeling that Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders are saying here: insert the thermometer, because how are you doing? If I can explain it this way, that's actually exactly what I was planning. I could also take over the motion with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u165	That's how I read my own motion. I myself used these words in response to an interruption by one of my colleagues. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u166	In that case, I can take over this motion, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u167	I'll see if there's any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 6 by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. If so, the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u168	Well, no, Mr. Chairman. But if I'm being completely honest, I actually think he's a dead end. Anyway, I'll leave this on...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u169	But do you object to taking over this motion, Mr Futselaar? I see that this is not the case and that no one else has any objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u170	The second motion in part No. 7 asks me to look at different countries and see how they have dealt with them during this CAP period. I'm not going to investigate that right now. In the EU Member States, we have a lower limit for what can be done in fur farming. Countries can put their own heads on that. That is what we did at the time with the cage size and that kind of thing. I do not see the point of charting all of this now, and I therefore advise against this motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8. Oh, no, Mrs. Lodders had a few more questions. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. She asked a number of questions about the figures for 2016. That is, let me just put it this way, the definition issue. What exactly is it about? I believe that we are really looking at this very carefully, because I think it is important, Mrs Lodders, that there is no light between the discussion on the definition and its implications for the issues raised in 2016. I just want to do that carefully and that's why I just need a little more time. I would suggest that I send a letter to the Chamber on this matter, and that is possible before the votes. So you have that information before the vote, but I can explain it very precisely, so that we do not allow light to exist between them. Because that wouldn't be good. Mrs Lodders said about the scrapping and conversion scheme that the 36 million should be for the benefit of the sector. She also asks for a reaction to the municipality of Gemert-Bakel. We need to have a discussion with the sector about this scrapping and conversion scheme. I have just said a few words about the first motion, the motion I have taken over. In that light, I also see this motion and also the remark that the 36 million should be for the benefit of the sector. I will also approach the municipality of Gemert-Bakel myself to ask: how are things going and what is your impression? That is where the questions are, as it were, because some things I already gave them to... are not only with us but also with that municipality. But that will have an impact on the entrepreneurs who are there. So I will also contact the municipality of Gemert-Bakel myself, so that we can also have that conversation. The third motion is that of Mrs Ouwehand on item No. 8. It calls on the Government to use the financial resources available for the elaboration of the ban on mink breeding to speed up the phasing-out of mink farming. I think I just indicated that I want to discuss this with the sector first. I would therefore recommend to Mrs Ouwehand that this motion be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u172	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (35006, No. 8) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u173	Then Mrs Ouwehand asks in the motion for a resolution for item No. 9 to make the demolition of cages mandatory. How the entrepreneur shape the demolition, I'm not going to prescribe. I am not opposed to the idea that business resources could also be used elsewhere. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 10 asks the government to send the agreements made by the then Secretary of State with the NVWA and the D.A. to the Chamber. Here too, I would like to map this very carefully, because this needs to be carefully designed. Although I still believe that the D.A. has an independent power to decide which cases it is going to bring to court and which are not. I'm not gonna go in there. But I'd like to find out exactly what the arrangements were. I propose that I include this point in the same letter that I have just promised to Mrs Lodder. I can take a reaction to this motion as soon as possible. That letter will be sent to the Chamber for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u174	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u175	The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 11 asks the government to focus on prosecuting the offences detected. I just indicated that I really think we have a separation of powers here. But I'll explain in the letter what exactly matters have been discussed with the NVWA and the D.A.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u176	Thanks for the promise that we'll get it by letter. I say to my fellow Members that, depending on what is in the letter, I will put these motions to the vote or not. I will also take a closer look at the wordings myself. I agree in principle with the Minister that the D.A. is independent, but I am very curious about the arrangements that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u177	So let me get back to that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u178	And you'll have time for that until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u179	May I put an explanatory question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 9, about the demolition of cages? You say you're not in favour of it. But isn't it also the case that at that time you have to change the scheme again and that this becomes unclear to the mink farmers? If the Court had wished, should this point not have been included in the original regulation, so that the rules of the game were clear from then on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u180	That seems to be an additional argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u181	We are equally unclear about the judgment on the Old-Hand motion on item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u182	I'll take it with me in the letter, as I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u183	Okay. And depending on that, the motion will be held or not. I assume, then, that the letter also mentions the judgment on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u184	Yes, the verdict on the motion in part No. 10 and the judgment on the motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u185	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u186	The last question is from Mr Madlener. He asked about the individual entrepreneurs. I said that the businessmen's points could be brought in generically through the consultations that I and my officials will have with the sector. But I also want to promise that we will instruct RVO to call the customer contact center of the RVO as fur animal keepers with questions, or to have the information at our disposal or to direct the question to the person who does have the information. If Mr Madlener really has a case of his own now, I would ask him to give it to the back in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u187	I would like to thank the Minister very much for that on behalf of the entrepreneurs involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u189	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-7.u191	This brings us to the end of this debate, the discussion of a legislative amendment. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday as well as on the legislative proposal. I thank the Minister and the MPs. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:45.
