ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs van den Hul for her questions on the shortage of care for victims of domestic violence. The questions are put to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would like to welcome. Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Almost a year ago we were standing here: on 20 November, to be exact, during the Week without violence. Then following the report that the effects of domestic violence on children are much and much greater than previously thought. We also discussed the problems in the flow of women and children in care. Unfortunately, the NOS reported this week that there is still no bed available in emergency care for many dozens of women and often children. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it cannot be that a woman who is threatened in community X by her partner or ex and who should actually have to flee to a municipality of Y, at a safe distance, will be standing in front of a closed door, and ends up in a holiday home or in a hotel room in her own home within walking distance of her violent partner or ex. A place where safety cannot be guaranteed at all, let alone care can be provided for her and her children. This is not a fictional situation; this is now the harsh reality, and for some women and children even a matter of life or death. The sector itself is very clear: despite the fact that these deficits have been in the picture for some time, nothing has changed in the past year. The lack of emergency shelters, in their view, causes "irresponsible security risks'. We read that, following this message, the Minister has commissioned an investigation into capacity problems in women's care. "Finally," I would almost say, but it also raises the question of what we have done in the past year. That is why these questions are addressed to the Minister. Does he agree with me that any victim who can't go to emergency care is too much? When will we get the results of the new capacity survey? How does this relate to the regional waiting list approach announced last year? Does this mean it didn't work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Women for whom home is not safe should be able to rely on a safe place. That is also why a national set of agreements has been made: there must always be shelter. Of course, that is a primary responsibility for the 35 central municipalities we know on that point. They have enough shelters themselves, have to use each other's shelters when their own shelters are insufficient, and there is a code red appointment: if there is an acute danger, a number of places are available elsewhere. If necessary, hotel sites will be used; this is undesirable but can be used as an emergency solution. We know that it is pinching, and that is why we have agreed with the UNG that it is being investigated where exactly it is pinching, but also what is the background that makes it pinching. Why can't we get that flow going? In addition, I agreed with the VNG that I am willing to finance the project management, so the approach to ensure that we actually come to an approach that works. We know it's tough on the one hand and we know at the same time that it's possible on the other. As an alderman in Rotterdam, I have been working intensively on this. So, do I agree that there should always be a safe place? Of course. We hope that the research into capacity, where it is pinching but also why it is pinching and what is the best regional solution, will be completed in December. I hope to be able to inform you accordingly. This automatically leads to the answer to the third question: it is true that up to now there has been insufficient success in achieving an adequate result. At the same time, it does not cut equally in all regions. This has mainly to do with which solutions regions have chosen, such as, of course, increasing the number of places. Making agreements on maximum time limits for reception is also helpful. Starting from day one work on the outflow, so getting a benefit, an ID card and housing support, also helps. But the use of a restraining order also helps, not victims from home, but the perpetrators from home. So all these things help. We will have to look at each region where it is pinching and what is the best mix of solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	If, in December, we can see exactly where this capacity is wringing in my opinion, the sector has been a little bit more insightful, can I assume that the Minister does not, just like last year when we were standing here, point to organisational problems in the sector itself or hide behind contractual agreements and triage? The sector is now asking very clearly for two things: more money for extra beds to remove the acute waiting lists and a solid, national coordination of this cooperation between these central municipalities, with the Minister's supervision of compliance and its functioning. I have argued several times in favour of a national rapporteur. The minister didn't feel like it, but the problems aren't getting any less. So what is the Minister going to do to make sure that victims really get the help they deserve? Or do those women and children in hotel rooms or summer homes have to wait for that solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	No, of course not. I expect every center community to make arrangements that are necessary to ensure that there is a place for everyone. This is not about pointing to others. Besides, it's about just doing what it takes. Indeed, I did say earlier that I do not believe that a rapporteur is suddenly going to help us find shelters. For this you will have to make concrete agreements between municipalities and reception institutions. By the way, I would point out that creating more places is not going to work, because you will have to promote the flow of people. You promote this flow by making agreements with housing corporations in a different way, by speeding up the payment of benefits and speeding up the settlement of all those things that are needed for extra flow. In addition, you also have to use a different toolbox, such as a restraining order. If you put that right, so that not victims and children have to leave the house, but the unsub leaves the house, it really works. In short, concrete agreements must be made in each region. And yes, I'm going to support that as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	It is true that more is needed. We have a monitor. We have a solid report from the Ombudsman. The industry is calling the alarm clock. We have a unfortunately growing list of names of women for whom help came too late. So the wait is for a solution, not tomorrow but today, so that we don't stand here again next year and have the same conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	I agree. We have to do everything we can to find a solution. I will do everything in my power to support that country in order to make that solution possible at regional level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	In the Netherlands, nearly 40,000 people are homeless or homeless. The problem is urgent, in all kinds of places, in all kinds of regions and in all kinds of cities. The Minister is talking about the flow, but the problem lies in social care, in sheltered housing, but also in the lack of social housing. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that there is actually a chain crisis? If he agrees with us, is he prepared to come up with an integrated approach from the cabinet, with the colleagues responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	Of course we are. It is true that the housing market is tight. Sometimes we discuss this subject through the prism of the elderly housing, sometimes through the prism of social care and now through the prism of the women's care. This means that the housing market is tight and that also means that things are not going well without direction. So we're working from VWS with the Department of the Interior. That's what we're doing in the current housing agenda. From my own experience as alderman in Rotterdam, I also recognize that it works simply to make very good agreements as a municipality with housing corporations about urgency, and to make good arrangements with the reception institutions to work from day one of the placement on flow, by arranging a benefit, an ID and follow-up help. If you're gonna take care of all those things that are necessary for a proper placement, it's just gonna work. In short, the shortest blow can and must be made at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, after which we shall say goodbye to Mrs Thieme.
