ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 34940, the legislative proposal Amendment of the Law on the rental allowance in relation to the expiry of the provision that the own contribution to the rental allowance is indexed with the percentage of net assistance development if that percentage is lower than the percentage of rental price development and the maximum income limits from which no rent allowance is granted, i.e. the Law on adjustment indexation own contribution rent allowance and the expiry of the maximum income limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the senators who have just spoken. I would very much like to answer the questions. It is indeed a legislative proposal with two changes to the rent payment, first of all another indexation of the own contribution and secondly an extension of the income range. In addition, both proposals stem from the recommendations contained in a final report of the interdepartmental policy research on social hire and form part of the coalition agreement. With regard to the other indexation of the own contribution, this amendment corrects what I would call an improper interlinking of income policies and housing policies. The own contribution to the rental allowance will only be dependent on the development of rents and not on the development of assistance. This creates a clear relationship with the rental policy. I shall, of course, deal with the questions later. So far, the possible indexation in the development of assistance has resulted in automatic compensation through the rent payment for lagging development of assistance, but that is actually a bit of a crazy situation. You have a specific housing market tool, the rent supplement, and with that you do an automatic general income repair. With this bill, that automatic compensation will lapse. I would like to stress, however, that we do not neglect the position of low incomes. Each year, we have the annual moment when we look fully at purchasing power development. Compensation for any delay in the development of assistance will also be discussed. So what the proposal aims and achieves is a clear division of responsibility. The rent payment becomes more transparent, as the transfer of social security measures, for example, to the rent payment is excluded from the scheme. The other change in the rent payment, widening the income range, means that households no longer lose the entire rent payment if their income increases slightly. That's a big profit. On balance, the two changes lead to an increase in the amount of money being paid to the tenants during this cabinet period. The effects of the other indexation of the own contribution are less than the effects of widening the income range. The effects of a different indexation are highly dependent on the actual difference between assistance development and rental development. This is also apparent from the fact that the government agreement expected an even greater impact of the measure. Since the coalition agreement, the effects of new economic prospects have been updated several times. The effect is now smaller than foreseen in the coalition agreement and was therefore expected in the explanatory memorandum. For example, in 2019 and 2020, the measure of indexation has no effect. I would also like to stress that with the possible effects in later years, there is no reduction in the amount of rent payment received by households. The rent allowance may rise slightly less in the future than without the change. The expiry of the maximum income limits therefore has no effect on the current rent-pay recipients at the same level of income. However, in the event of a limited increase in income, this group will not be able to lose the whole supplement directly. That is really undesirable and can also lead to distressing situations. This is now being prevented. It also has an effect for households in a rented house with an income slightly above the current maximum income limits, as the change allows these households to apply for a rent allowance. This amounts to about 115,000 additional households who are entitled to a rent allowance. Mrs Fiers of the Labour Party referred to the Hoekstra motion from this Chamber. In that motion, the government is asked to refrain from linking individual legislative proposals. At the time, this was due to the combination of the 2016 Tax Plan and a scheme in box 3, which would take effect the year after that. I know that motion, of course, but my explanation of that motion is not such that it applies here, because it is two amendments to one and the same law. It is not unusual to combine such changes. Precisely because there are no independent legislative changes that justify separate proposals, I therefore think it is logical for these amendments to be submitted jointly to Parliament. A number of members asked about the initial estimate foreseen when proposing these measures and their impact. I was just saying that in the end it's all about how the assistance develops and how the rent develops. I have just said that the estimates made at the time have been updated on the basis of new economic figures. Right now, we're still basing ourselves on last year's Macro Economic Recognition. I have also said that this will have no effect in practice for this year and for next year. In the years after, this leads to a very limited... Let's say: a limited increase in the rent surcharge of about €0.80 per month. This more limited increase in the rent surcharge results in 26 million less expenditure in 2022. On the other hand, we are going to spend 70 million more on rent payments from 2020 on account of the drop in the maximum income limits. On balance, these two changes in the coming years thus lead to higher expenditure. With regard to lower income effects, I have already made a comment on the integral purchasing power picture. In short, the goal is not to spend less money on it. The goal is to redesign the system. I believe that it will also benefit people that this is clear and that the increase in rent and own contribution corresponds to the average rent increase. Mr. Chairman. Most of the questions were actually on that subject. Mr Van Hattem of the PVV also had a question about this. He said: do you think it is justified at this time to say that we are no longer going to do it through the can-determine but to look at the purchasing power picture every year? I would also like to say to him: yes, I think that a general balancing of the overall income picture would be preferable to the partial automatic granting of this link to a particular group, which would leave other groups......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Hence my consideration of choosing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u4	I'd like to ask the Minister if it doesn't give a bit of a distorted picture when you say that you'd rather do this way of purchasing power repair than that other way. The current situation is that purchasing power is being repaired along both ways, not double-up but along both ways. The question to you was why you wanted to delete one of those roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u5	My answer is twofold; I have already said it. One: because I think there's actually some kind of improper link when you do an automatic repair through the rental policy. That doesn't mean that if you want to do purchasing power repair, you could use the rental fee instrument. It's about unplugging and removing automatism. Of course, Mr Köhler and I may think differently, but I think there are good arguments for that. I am in favour of doing so, but I also say to Mr Köhler that I do not want to detract from the fact that we should look closely at the people with the lowest incomes and, if necessary, consider how and how to compensate. I believe that it was also Mr Köhler who asked about the difference between the increase in rents for people living in a housing corporation and those for people renting from a private landlord. He's right to say that the rent increase in private landlords is slightly higher than in the housing corporations. For example, over the past year on average, they have experienced an increase in rents of 2.9% compared to 1.4% in corporations. Moreover, this is still well within what is permitted by law: 2.5% above inflation. The private sector in the social rental sector accounts for about 15% of the total stock, but a large part of the rent increase is covered by the rent surcharge. What we are talking about in the new situation is a link to the average rent increase. This includes the 15% of the private landlord sector. In short, there is a difference now and there will be a difference later, but I think it is being designed in a fair way. Finally, a comment by Mr Van Hattem. He was still involved in this discussion, i.e. the sustainability of the social housing stock. This is also a regular topic in the Lower House when the PVV speaks about it. I have often said that rent increases have been limited in recent years. For example, this increase in 2018 was about the same as inflation. Today, sustainability is an important task for corporations, in addition to ensuring affordability of housing and providing sufficient housing for those on incomes who are eligible for it. It is often necessary to make agreements with tenants on how housing improvement through sustainability is reflected in the rental price. I would also like to say on this point that we are, of course, still awaiting the passing on of the climate agreement. We need to see how they work out for the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u6	There is a great concern in it, because we also see in the reactions of corporations themselves that the construction costs of new homes increase for them. Of course, it's a lot more expensive to build an energy-neutrally built house than a standard home that has been built so far. The rising costs for the corporation sector will thus eventually be translated into the rental price. Eventually, rent rates also increase on average. A newly built house can be scaled in a higher category on average than a house from the thirties that has been there for eighty years. The point is: if you are going to renew that housing stock in the broad sense by making it more sustainable, then we are not going to reach a much higher level in terms of pricing, which is going to increase the average rental price and which is going to have an effect on, in this case, this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u7	Not that last one. It is, I think, a little more complex than Mr Van Hattem puts forward, because first of all, the cabinet has already planned a 100 million reduction in the landlord's tax in the coalition agreement, coupled with sustainability. In the meantime, we have also achieved this by means of a proposal. Then, in last year's budget, we also eased the burden on housing corporations because of an increase in the burden that was passed on their side through ATAD regulations. Housing corporations are thus given a relief in their landlord's tax, which they can use directly in their investment capacity. When they invest and build new buildings, they naturally like to do so sustainably. Secondly, they must, of course, deal with existing stocks. That is indeed an investment, but it pays back in a much lower energy bill for both housing corporations and tenants. Of course, we're experimenting with how to make good agreements. In doing so, you will ensure sustainability, greater living comfort for the people living in these rental homes and a fair set-off with the rental price and the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u8	Don't we get more housing on average in a more expensive rental category over the width of the total housing offer in the Netherlands than has been the case so far? That's actually the point I want to make with this. If you get more expensive housing on average because of this sustainability, doesn't the average offer of rental homes generally end up in a higher category, thus increasing the average rental price and the effect in the results of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u9	The housing corporations also have other instruments. They can make arrangements with municipalities and they can allocate them appropriately. Indeed, it is very important that a variety of offers are provided in the stock in a municipality and a housing corporation. I myself am not concerned that this development will immediately lead to a disbalance in supply. I hope I have answered the questions raised in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u10	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for her response. I'll be very brief. As far as PVV is concerned, there are still too many uncertainties in the development of rental prices and in the consequences of the deletion of the possibility provision in this bill. As far as we are concerned, it would be highly desirable for the Minister to split up the proposal, in any way whatsoever, so that at least this ceiling on the income limit is adjusted. We really do not want to go along with the adjustment of the can-determine at the moment. The PVV Group will therefore vote against this proposal. So far in the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, thank you for the answer and keep it brief. In all honesty, the answer does not differ very much from what was already stated in the reply and in the answers to the written questions. In this sense, the Minister is consistent, but it does not give any new light to the consideration we are making. There's a point she might just be able to say a little more about. In fact, it indicated a little bit covered that the cabinet would consider, if necessary, whether and, if so, how tenants should be compensated if the measure ultimately remained negative in the longer term. That will not be this year, because this year's purchasing power figures will have no effect. Anyway, it would be nice if the Minister could say a little more about that. As things stand at present, I will advise my group not to support this bill because of the possibility, but I am still looking with a little hope at the last chance for the Minister, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u15	Well, Mr. Chairman. In some debates you think "I try it every time with new or additional arguments," but that turns out to have no effect. I do not think the answer now is very satisfactory either. The Minister did mention a number of arguments, but they were almost literally the same as they were in the explanatory memorandum to the bill of so many months ago. Anything others try to change or nuance on it will then simply be answered by the Minister with the old text four months ago and the text of the written reply. That is what she does when it comes to clarification. Now, of course, you can say that it is very good that the Minister is so consistent that she has thought very carefully about this from the beginning, but I find it rather unsatisfactory for the debate. Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I tried to explain why, in our view, it is an unjustified argument that it would be inappropriate to link the rent allowance, at least its own contribution to the rent, to the welfare allowance, because it would only have to be done through purchasing power policy. I have explained quite clearly, I think, why it is precisely in the system of the rent allowance that it really is to apply that link and quite improperly to link it to the rent development, but the Minister does not go into that. She does not explain why we see this error or why you can look at it differently; she comes up with the story of last time. At least that doesn't convince me. Then the Minister has the financial relationship as an argument. The improvement of the first proposal, on less tight limits for when you can still get rent surcharge, which raises from €30,000 to €36,000, would cost more to the government, thus giving more improvement to the tenants than the other proposal for which, in our view, would lead to misindexation in the revised calculation. That's true, of course. If you take 2021 or even 2022 as a deadline, that's true. But I also referred to your own calculation of the structural effect. Maybe that's not such a clear term either. Let me put it another way: in the development of less indexing of the rent payment as a result of the Minister's proposal, there is, not after two years, but after three or four years, a saved amount that is higher than what is extra given through that other measure. But that does not matter either, because the Minister did not say that the coherence between the two proposals is that they should finance each other. Then I would like to make one more correction to my first-term contribution. I said there that in the long term it would cost the tenants the rent surcharge, in structural terms, according to the Ministry's calculations, €60 per year. That was supposed to be $100 a year. In both cases, the Minister does not seem to mind, because it is still far in the future. To sum up, my group's objections have not been eliminated at all on the part of the less good indexation of the rent payment. Because the Minister also insists on the linking of one proposal and the other, she cannot do anything else at this stage either, for our group, there is nothing more to vote against the whole legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u16	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. On this side too, we are disappointed, perhaps triple disappointed, firstly because of the somewhat technocratic answers to the question 'why this proposal'. The Minister is consistent in that sense. Then comes the story of sacred faith in purchasing power pictures. We have seen and heard a lot about this recently. That is not the solution to this problem. Perhaps also as a final disappointment the fact that there is a large part of the opposition here and that the coalition is not even participating in the debate, although this is an important point for a number of parties. So I also think I am going to advise my group to vote against the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u18	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I'll see if the minister has the opportunity to answer directly. Then I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Fiers' last comment was not addressed to me. I have already thanked those who have spoken for this in my first term. Mr Van Hattem almost sighed that he would prefer to see a split of the proposal. He also hinted that this might still be possible now. I just argued that I don't think it makes any sense. It's about two changes to one law. To be honest, I wouldn't know how to do that from a legal point of view, so I'm afraid that's a passed station. The other three speakers accused me of consistency, I would almost say. I'll take that as a compliment, because it would be crazy if I weren't consistent. I would like to say a few more things about purchasing power development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u20	I'll give Mr. Van Hattem the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u21	Of course, a novel is still possible. I also use this interruption because there is still an unanswered question that I have missed in the second term, namely my question about the establishment of status holders in the social rental sector and its impact on the scarcity. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u22	I would like to answer that question, because I also get it very often in the Lower House from fellow party members of Mr Van Hattem. I have also said many times there: if you look on the one hand at the total numbers of social housing units and of people eligible for them in the Netherlands, and on the other hand at the obligation for municipalities to provide housing for status holders, whether or not they are included in the municipal regulations, then I can see that link that the PVV makes, not at all. Of course, status holders should also be able to obtain a home, at least those eligible for it. This also applies to all those people who, because of their income, are eligible for social housing. Municipalities and housing corporations deal with this very carefully. I am opposed to the image of the PVV, which is that there is a displacement effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u23	But I cannot help but see that every year tens of thousands of people have to be housed from the outside, and that this has an effect on a housing market, in order to produce the same number of new homes in the same time frame, so that pressure is indeed there. Then there is also a certain degree of scarcity. Scissors create a price boost effect and that ensures that the average rental prices will also go up. That's what I'm talking about. Those effects must be present. It cannot be that it has no effect if you allow tens of thousands of people to flow every year. That's not gonna happen to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u24	There are a lot of effects on the housing market and in the social rental sector: people die, children are born, people move and people also join in the Netherlands. These effects are all there, but you can identify not one group that has a superproportional effect on the scarcity that exists in a large number of municipalities in the Netherlands and throughout the housing market, starting in the social sector, but also in the middle rental segment. A lot of people sitting in a social rental house, and they could flow through, can't do that because there is no offer, and the same goes for the retail segment. That's why we're all working together, man and power, on a bigger offer in all sectors, for all those people, the status holders and all those other people who have the right to live.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u25	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u26	Finally, yes. Unlike all other groups, this group is very specific, always on the part of the social housing market. As a result, the pressure on that part of the market is extra high, so I think you will always experience an absolute effect, but we apparently look at that differently. We also continue to be firm in our efforts to make that effect clear to our Dutch tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u27	I agree with Mr Van Hattem on one point, namely that we are very different on this point and are likely to continue to differ. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the questions and comments made by GroenLinks, SP and the Labour Party about lower incomes; in particular Mr Lintmeijer asked for them. Every year we look at the total purchasing power, but there is still something that precedes that. In the coalition agreement, we have taken a number of measures that will reduce the burden. Tax rates are going down, the general tax discount and the labour discount are going up, the care allowance is going up, especially for couples, and families with children benefit from higher family allowances. We have a higher child-related budget. There is a higher childcare allowance. It is all about individual cases and about customisation, but on balance these measures will lead to people with a rental house being able to spend more. Besides, you have the purchasing power we have every year. Mr Lintmeijer's question was how to compensate tenants. I would say: if it turns out that I do not know that, of course, you would want to compensate that particular group, then you should also look at what is the most appropriate instrument for this. I said in my first term that the rent allowance could also be seen in this context. Then the automatism disappears, but with that it does not disappear in the reflection of the total purchasing power picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u28	You can also reverse the reasoning. You can also say that we now have an instrument at our disposal that offers a choice to compensate people in their situation through the scheme that is most beneficial to them. In addition to all the other tools you can use, within this segment we have a nice package that you can choose from. Why are you throwing that away?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u29	In reply to Mr Van Hattem, I have just said that this is an automatism for one group, but that this automation is not there for another group. Mr Lintmeijer argues: you have it, so let's not throw it away. I could put it on the other side: I prefer to look at all groups and apply some customization to all groups. I fear that Mr Lintmeijer and I may not entirely agree on that point. I respect his opinion, of course, but this is my answer to that question. I actually think that was at the heart of the comments that have just been made. I have repeated arguments, but I have heard Mr Köhler do the same. Let's respect each other's. Mrs Fiers ended by saying that the Labour Party will unfortunately not vote in favour of the proposal. I note that some have said that if there had been two proposals, they could have voted in favour of one of them. That too is part of the deliberations. I understand that you sometimes have to make a different assessment. That's how these things go. I would like to thank you for your contributions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u31	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I suggest we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-12.u32	Before we proceed with the debate on the initiative proposal, I shall suspend the sitting until 8.10 p.m.
