ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to the second question. That is a question from Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union to the Foreign Minister about tortured prisoners in Uruzgan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would almost say: Afghan temperatures in the Netherlands, but in the national newspaper Trouw there were also reports last Saturday about alleged torture and extortion of Afghan prisoners who were then handed over by the Netherlands to the Afghan security services in Uruzgan. It would be 230 prisoners who were handed over to them. Now, prior to the mission, there were questions about the reputation of the Afghan services. The question was whether the transfer was justified and whether they were not exposed to human rights violations. Back then, Minister Bot said that this would not happen. He said precautions had been taken. Thus the prisoners would be monitored by the Red Cross and Dutch diplomats. The evaluation also showed that everything went well. Now the research of journalist collective Lighthouse Reports shows that some have been tortured and extorted after all. Monitoring also appears to have been very poor and incomplete. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. Does the Minister recognise that the then Foreign Minister, Mr Ben Bot, had undertaken to do everything in his power to ensure that the transferred prisoners were properly treated by the Afghan authorities and that the final evaluation in 2012 stated that the 230 prisoners transferred by the Netherlands were "not tortured or inhumanely treated"? Does the Minister recognize that? Does the Minister recognise the international legal rule that a country which transfers people to another country, knowing that they may be at risk of inhumane treatment, remains responsible for this? And can the Minister confirm the reports that some of these transferred prisoners have been tortured or inhumane or have been extorted? And if not, how does the Minister know exactly? I understand from the media that he does not want to do so, but it is also mentioned in the report that there are no records of 161 out of 230 prisoners. So we simply don't know what happened to them. How can the minister in the media say so clearly that there was no torture? I would like to hear some clarification on these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, Mr Voordewind raises worrying reports, which I have also read. These messages make it necessary to look back at what was said and done at the time. It is also logical that Mr Voordewind should ask for this. From 2007 onwards, the ministers responsible, at the time Verhagen, Van Middelkoop and Koenders, regularly corresponded with the Chamber, first of all about the starting situation and the transfer of prisoners. It also mentioned the concerns that there were at the time about the situation in Afghan prisons and the fragile situation. In the progress reports, which generally appeared quarterly, the responsible ministers also reported on the measures taken to monitor as much as possible what happened to the transferred prisoners. There was then a final evaluation, which was indeed signed by my predecessor Bot, indicating that there were no reports of torture or inhumane treatment at that time. Mr Bijleveld and I therefore referred to that final report in the WOB request that led to the press releases to which Mr Voordewind refers. Mr Voordewind asks whether the legal rule is that the transferring country, in this case the Netherlands, is responsible for the fate of the transferred prisoners at all times and in any event. The ECHR states that we must have safeguards, but it does not indicate that we are responsible at all times for what happens to the prisoners. Those safeguards were provided by the monitoring mechanism during that transfer. Mr Voordewind then asks me whether I can confirm or deny that despite the monitoring, despite the safeguards that have been made, the regular visits by Dutch diplomats and the memorandum of understanding, which has been concluded with the Afghan government, there has been torture or extortion. To date, I have no other indications than the press release referred to by Mr Voordewind. We have not received that message from previous reports. I'm worried about the press release. So I would like to say to the Chamber that, on the basis of this press release, I am going through our embassy to look at the basis of these messages. We will also contact the journalist concerned and we will try to get in touch with the people who indicate that they have been abused or blackmailed. I would also like to report to the Chamber on this, because I understand very well that Mr Voordewind and other Members of Parliament want to know what actually happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you to the Minister for the commitment that he wants to make sure that what is true is true. Perhaps, in addition to the journalists he wants to consult, he can check with the Red Cross or the diplomats at the time what exactly happened. Indeed, the ECHR requires that there should be safeguards. The minister says they've been monitored. But the question remains, of course: if 69 files were to come out of these WOB requests, where would the other 161 files have gone? I understand that not everyone can be traced, but this is a third of the total number of transferred Afghan prisoners. Then I'm still worried about the 161 others. Can the Minister also tell us what might have happened to it? Finally, of course, there were also signals in advance, including from Canada, as early as 2007. And the Australians have stopped the transfer because of the coverage of alleged torture. Were these not already signals during the mission that caused us as the Netherlands to monitor that transfer very closely, perhaps sharper than before, or to stop that transfer temporarily? Finally, if it turns out that people have actually been extorted and tortured and have left medical complaints on them, I would like to say clearly: 'if that proves to be the case', does the Minister want to consider whether we can compensate these people with some form of compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Voordewind asked whether we would also like to contact diplomats or the Red Cross staff who were involved at the time. Yes, we will. Mr Voordewind asked about the differences in numbers between the total number of prisoners transferred and the number of files available. That is indeed one of the questions I have. Some may have been released before a visit, but something else may have happened. So that's one of the questions I want answered. Mr Voordewind said that there were signs of poor treatment of prisoners at the start of the operation in 2007. This was undoubtedly the reason why the then government took the additional measures, including an agreement with the Afghan Government and monitoring of the prisoners. Finally, Mr Voordewind asks whether I am prepared to pay compensation. I want what happened on the table first. Then we will have to operate carefully and step by step, but I have already indicated that the signals are so worrying for me that I too want to be clear about what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'd like to know when they're reporting to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	Oh, yeah, that should be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	When will the results be reported to the Chamber from that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is difficult to predict exactly what practical aspects we will encounter. I also understand from the article that a number of former prisoners attach great importance to anonymity, which I also understand. I'll really do my best to do that. I admit that at least this year I will come back to what we have been able to find. I simply do not dare to make a prediction of how detailed we have the facts at the time, but my commitment is to get the truth out of the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	A Dutch Afghanistan veteran tells us that a prisoner they transfer with a swing is thrown into the loading bin of the pickup. The blow bounces the prisoner's head up. The bleeding starts immediately. Since 2007, there have been several signals, from the organisation, from the military, but also from organisations like Amnesty International, that transferred prisoners, contrary to promises and international law, are tortured and extorted in prisons. Mr. Chairman. The question to the Minister is: how did it happen that this was denied in the final report? Is the Minister prepared to have the investigation he has announced carried out by the United Nations or the Red Cross?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	The horrible images that Mrs Karabulut describes have touched me too. That's exactly why I just gave the answer I gave. Although an evaluation has indeed been sent to the Chamber, I think it is very important to carry out research on the basis of this new information. I think it is logical that we should carry out this research ourselves and then assess whether external partners are needed. Let's start by doing our own thorough investigation into what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs. Karabulut has no further question? Then I'll go to Mrs. Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	I hear the Minister clearly saying he's going to investigate it. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the debate that took place in 2007, in which Minister Verhagen said, as a result of a discussion, that this is not a paper guarantee. It concerns all the agreements made in the framework of international law. The Netherlands has also indicated itself to create a guarantee for at least these 230 people. I sincerely hope that the Minister will not find out that only 69 of them have had visitors and that all the others have not received visitors, or are untraceable, or worse. I therefore sincerely hope that he will clarify this as soon as possible and put everything into effect to ensure that those other people who have not been visited will be found, so that we can have a debate on whether this paper guarantee...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs Belhaj, this is oral Question Time. You have 30 seconds. You may ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	You're absolutely right. That was actually my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	I agree with Mrs Belhaj that the investigation should answer the question. I have already indicated that I cannot now predict what practical issues we are facing. I'm going to do my utmost to get files up, where they are, and to talk to those involved, where they're willing to start the conversation. I think it is important to have clarity here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u19	Torture is, of course, very bad, it's horrible. It is very good that the Minister will investigate this, even if it is not Dutch responsibility, but may have taken place in close proximity to the Netherlands. I hear Mr Voordewind, and some of his colleagues too, putting this as a form of certainty. Does the Minister agree with me that we are dealing here with media reports based on, I understand, anonymous testimonies by people who have ever been arrested by our men and women for suspicions of terrorism or other aggression, and that we should therefore include that in the investigation? Of course, torture is horrible, and it shouldn't happen. But we must look objectively and calmly at accusations that occur after 12 years, without names.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Koopmans rightly points out that reports of torture should always be a cause for great concern, that you should look carefully in the follow-up into what the facts are, that you should hear and hear again in order to be able to answer the question that concerns us all: what exactly happened there and where were the responsibilities? In short, we want clarity on the pressing questions that are on the table as a result of this publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you.
