ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u1	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am standing here today to explain my candidacy for the chair of the First Chamber. My children said to me: Dad, why do you do that, that presidency, why not spend more time on fun and other things? But I have always been passionate and involved in our democracy is the answer to that. I'm from a small village. My father was a doctor. That's a profession that often goes from father to son, but my interest was on a whole different plane. Perhaps it was triggered by a debate at school, an election debate where I had to cross swords with the sharpest debater in the school. That worked out very well for me. My political interest was aroused. That passion of that time never left. Through my choice of study, straight and political walk as a thread. That is why, in addition to my professional career, I have always remained politically active. This house is often seen as part-time politics, but demands from you, from me, full-time involvement. The first to translate this full-time involvement into full-time availability is your President. After four years of Vice-Presidentship and after my weeks as your President, I know that the legislative train continues throughout the week. Before you find everything in your meeting app, many decisions have been taken, about events, about deadlines, about coordination with directors, with committees and all that. The President is the central figure in that. This central figure I am to you these weeks, I can also be to you after today. Every democratic process needs a form of guidance and guidance. The President shall be the helmsman and shall keep the ship on course. Then, of course, the logical question is: does this mate have the technical capabilities to steer? Based on professional experience as a lawyer, business lawyer and entrepreneur, I am familiar with difficult dilemmas and considerations and also with the management of organisations. I can make additional improvements together with the dedicated staff of our organisations, because as your co-legislator for eight years I have experienced what demands are being made of us. I'd like to use that experience for you. So, yes, I'm that helmsman who's technically skilled and fully available to stand on the bridge before you. But every mate needs the right compass to steer the ship and sail the right course. My compass is calibrated to trust. Trust is the core principle in our democracy. Mutual trust is the foundation on which we build society. Yeah, I know, control, accountability, transparency, all at your service, but the core is trust anyway. Trust, we know, comes on foot and goes on horseback. That has to be earned all the time. This means that I, together, will work every day to respect this trust in the interests of the democratic rule of law. This room echoes the words of my father, the GP. He said: in the chamber there are no ranks or positions; everyone is equal in his or her vulnerability, but ultimately it comes down to trust. This is about trust in your GP, but also in this legislative office, in your President with the lawyer's DNA. Also in this Chamber everyone is equal, experienced or less experienced, member of a large or small fraction. Together we stand for the importance of democracy. Together we stand for the democratic rule of law. Together we stand for the uniqueness of our Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. What a beautiful sight to be able to speak to all of you from here. It looks great. It is an honor for me to be here before you as a candidate for the Forum of Democracy. In case you missed it, I can hardly imagine it.I tell you that after a clumsy interview in De Telegraaf some statements from me have come into a strange light. Fortunately, I was able to explain and correct this recently in a personal conversation with Ronny Nafaniel, former director of the CIDI. Enough about that. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are choosing a new President. This Chamber is an important Chamber of the States General, often called "chambre de réflexion," a crucial link in our democratic and administrative process. In addition to the test on legality, feasibility and enforcement, I still think it is mainly about the people, the motivated, talented, experienced people who are in that Chamber. So it's about you. These are people who want to improve our legislation and policies and then check this new legislation against the Constitution and treaties. These representatives of the people, who are constantly guaranteeing the connection with the citizens, are at the heart of the matter. It is therefore important work for our democratic system. There's gonna be a lot of energy in there in the next few days. The government is now talking about changes to the Remkes report. The Dutch people, if you like: the electorate, has spoken and wants more visibility, transparency and clarity; no backrooms, no looking away from problems, no selective climate tables or playing each other jobs. As you know, the Forum for Democracy has virtually no professional politicians, and you can see this in the composition of our group. However, my group colleagues are convinced that we as a group can and must provide a candidate for the Presidency. The Forum for Democracy does not run away from its responsibilities. That's why I'm here. I shall now turn to the President-in-Office. Whoever it is, at least he has a very good predecessor who has been able to function with great authority, support and support. That certainly makes the succession a challenge, but that applies to all four of us. What is required in addition to parliamentary experience? 'Cause I don't have one. What I do have are competences acquired elsewhere, as it is called in the jargon. Important competences: to be authoritative and binding. That's why I've led several units. The new President must also be internationally oriented. My international experience has read you in my letter. I gained my diplomatic skills at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation, where I worked as military advisor to Agnes van Ardenne and Ben Bot. I did that for Henk Kamp. In a later phase, I was the sous-chief international military cooperation for Jeanine Hennis. The new President is also asked to be able to stand above the parties. Really up there. I have demonstrated this competence in particular in the purple positions I have held in the Defense Department. Functions where you're above the Army, Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps. Then you usually had to apply bad, but fair distribution of budget cuts. In addition, I am General: General b.d. This does not mean "extremely expert," but means "out of service." And I'm a veteran. The Presidency is a challenging function, with several aspects that are in line with my experience and my reference framework. I've done a lot of running meetings. Although in a different setting and with different rules of procedure, these are matters that I think I can quickly identify in the coming recess, with the support of the Registry. Ceremonial matters have often allowed me to experience and lead as a military officer. That won't be a problem. I think your facility support will be of great importance in the coming years. In my career, I have been able to run the facility and logistics division of 4,500 people, men and women, for five years. I was, like, the facility boss of Defense. I had to drive all the moves and renovations to the DOD. With the support of the Housekeeping Commission, this should be possible if we are talking here about the renovation of the Binnenhof and our relocations. How do I see my role when I am elected President? Firstly, as an independent, impartial and neutral chairman of the various meetings. Strict but just and sometimes with humor. But above all, I want to steer the debate so that it leads to effective decision-making. Secondly, I would like to mention the role of organizer of your support, the ceremonies and the facilities. And finally, not unimportant: host to the domestic and foreign delegations and ambassador of your Chamber. Bottomline: In every organization, even in this beautiful house, it's always about the people inside. Opinions may differ, but we must always have respect for each other, regardless of the political view. Our common goal connects: a beautiful, safe and strong Netherlands, which we can all be proud of and in which we feel comfortable. Not looking away from trouble, but solving. Mutual respect is essential here. The voter made Forum the largest party in this Chamber. This house has the tradition that the largest party often delivers the President, but the choice is yours and that is right. That's the spirit. Let's listen to the voters, the traditions of this beautiful house. You can count on my commitment and support. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a great pleasure and an honour for me to be here today as President-in-Office of this beautiful Chamber, in which I have been in office for six and a half years. As can be seen from my letter and curriculum vitae that I sent to you last week, I meet the requirements as stated in the profile. I have extensive experience, decades, on and around the Binnenhof, of which the last six and a half years in this Chamber. I have extensive experience in maintaining national and international contacts and networks, including as president of my global profession. I have extensive experience as a director and as an independent chairman: for this Chamber, of course, very important. I have extensive experience in the management and renovation of real estate, as a supervisor at a number of organizations over the last ten years. I can make plenty of time available, thanks to an employer who welcomes the fact that I am able to do this job and who gives me ample time to make that time available, as much as is necessary. And I have experience and affinity with state law, like everyone who sits here longer. Of course we are not all state lawyers, but fortunately we can count on excellent support from the Registry and the staff. As you can see, the President is more or less literally caught between the lawyers. A little diversity might not hurt there. The Registrar, a former professor of state law, sits even next to the President, to keep him sharp and not, as in Tasmania, for the rostrum on the floor. I wouldn't be in favour of that; we shouldn't do that to the Registrar either. But I would, of course, also miss that as President. In addition to all these formalities and whether or not they meet the profile, what interests you, as Members, is, of course, much more: what kind of person are we going to choose today as President? Because you are choosing a person as President today. Some of you already know me, but others, and certainly the newcomers, haven't. That's why I chose to give some more personal background about myself. The theme will again be "fathers and doctors," I'm sure I can tell you. I come from a warm, cozy family of three brothers and a sister, where there was room for humour, relaxation and animals. Pets. Three seats, right? My father had his own company, and my father's own company taught us what to do and what to do. It didn't always go well with that company either. You learn a lot from that. But also giving each other space and giving each other what was an important value that I grew up with. Everyone matters, man is at the centre. That was the motto at our house. My dad's still my big inspiration. He's up here in the bleachers. He's 91 years old. I'm grateful he's here and I'm proud of him. In the end, I became a doctor and a professor. Here comes that theme "doctor" again, Mr. Chairman. There too, man is at the centre. As President of the Supreme Court, I also believe that the theme of 'human central' should be at the heart of this issue. I've seen one thing very well here in the last few years. What we do here is important, but it's more important that we do it together. Together. Along with the excellent staff. We're working together in a collective way here. A certain relaxation is part of this and at times also a relativizing quilt. It must be nice to work here, too. That's how I've experienced it. That is not a side issue or a luxury, because precisely that relaxed, respectful and pleasant atmosphere provides the safe space needed for the solid debate on the content. The solid debate, which is the basis of our work here. The solid debate, in which we seek to connect over parties. The solid debate, in which we rulers and each other can challenge to sharp arguments. I'd almost say, "Taste the kidneys." That happens to be my job. Those sharp arguments are needed in order to strike a proper balance in order to arrive at a final judgement on the feasibility of legislation. That requires respect for each other from all the members of this Chamber. As President, I will stand for it. Respect, because all Members and all political groups, big or small, established or new, are voters. It's about those voters. Respect and cooperation that provide the culture needed to deliver quality in this house. A culture in which we also help each other. That quality of our work must be good, because we are the final test of new laws. In this way, we will continue to build good legislation for this country and thus also for the Statute of this Chamber. This independent position of the Senate in the parliamentary system must be represented by authority, nationwide and international. This requires an active and vigorous President. I'd be happy to take on that role. Ladies and gentlemen, if you give me your confidence, I will, like the last six years, work with great enthusiasm and energy, but I will also be honored to be your President. Some of you will be grieving. Others will rejoice. But unlike the previous President, who was a renowned jazz singer, I do not sing. I do play jazz piano and I have the good bladder function required by the President of this Chamber. Finally. If you choose me, at least there will always be a doctor in the room to serve you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr President, thank you. I would almost say 'I would like to join all the previous speakers', but that is a little too easy. The ink I sent you last week wasn't dry or we got the information that the cabinet had decided to set a social minimum for the Caribbean Netherlands. That led me back to the motion that was tabled in this Chamber on 21 June 2016. A motion under which almost all the groups were included and which was also adopted with almost universal support. A motion based on the Statute, on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, on the Constitution and on legal certainty and equality of law, which calls on the government to ensure that our citizens in the Caribbean Netherlands also know where they stand, which is a good basis, which is the standard of living. Great was our joy that our government has indeed decided to establish that. I mention this because this is an example of the effect that the First Chamber can have, not only of course, but always with social parties, with the voices of the citizens overseas and with others involved, but still a clear signal that has sounded from this Chamber and that we have repeated over and over these three years. Why was that so powerful? Because that's what the entire First Chamber actually supported. Because we said with each other, partly with all kinds of different arguments: this is important for the Netherlands, for our citizens. For some, Christian values play a very important role in this, the realization that we must ensure that people can live a normal life. Some will fill that in more socialist or liberal. Others look mainly at constitutional aspects, the treaties we are bound by, our Statute, our Constitution. But no matter how we do that, we have, from the committee KOREL, which I was allowed to lead over those years, sought with each other what connects us and how you come from different values to a shared conviction of what is needed for our country and for our citizens. For me, that's a good example of where the First Chamber can be effective, what it can mean. Of course, the First Chamber is a political instrument. No one here will deny that. We are sitting here with different beliefs and we are looking together for what is important to live up to from our beliefs. But we do do along the line of not just collegiality. We do so along the lines of the tasks of the First Chamber, which are primarily constitutional in nature in terms of the quality of legislation, the quality of policy, less the precise implementation, but much more the frameworks that need to be laid down. We will not be discussing how high this social minimum should be, but we will be discussing the fact that it is being established so that people know where they stand. People who spend a little longer here may have noticed that I love the debate very much. I do not shy away from the debate, nor do I shy away from the sharpness of the debate. For me, this is part of it, but always in the right proportions and always clearly from the role in which you do it. As a footballer on the field should get the best out of the can and when he gets older and perhaps wiser, he takes on the role of coach or maybe becomes a referee; that kind of role changes also belong to a President. You must love the debate in order to be a good President, but you must also be able to change roles. I was able to show that in the Committee on Kingdom Relations. That is why on the other side of the ocean too, even in the countries with which we have had strong discussions at times in the Interparliamentary Kingdom Councils, on the one hand we recognize that sharpness, but at the same time we recognise that connection. I think that is particularly important in this new role. Working together, searching for what connects, clarity about what distinguishes, but especially from our values, however different, can come to shared choices. We'll get on with that. As far as I am concerned, there is no longer any difference between newcomers or residents. We're all new and we're all settled. We all have a life behind us and we all have at least a few weeks of experience now. That sounds like a very nice base. The rest are just gradual differences. What good is it for me? A number of things you may have been able to experience, but let me mention from my own life's course five roles that I carry with me. I started my career as a reverend. I've worked in local communities for ten years, where you're looking with people for what inspires, where you end up looking for the whole ordinary life in which children are born and people die, and when it comes to the question of what the quality of a community is and how it can function. I am a scientist and I am mainly focused on the analysis, understanding and reflection. I have been a hotelier for eight years and I know the life of an entrepreneur, but also the hospitality that is essential for me to get on with each other. I'm a director of organizations, I'm a politician, I have media experience and I've always done a lot of international work. In short, as I have summarised in my letter: if you are looking for an active connector, if you are looking for an inspiring figurehead who can convey the values of this Chamber, if you are looking for an efficient driver who can help this Chamber in the coming years, then I am available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be brief. I'm going to go by the order of the speakers, skipping our own candidate. Mr. Chairman. I have followed Mr Bruijn's speech with great interest. It's humorous, it's fun. We're really getting to know him a little bit. From your letter and resume, however, you are a true partyman and you have written along on various election programs. The concerns of the Forum for Democracy are not so much that you have personal shortcomings or that you have no experience of running meetings. But certainly given that the Prime Minister is also of the VVD and your predecessor here in this house also from the VVD: isn't it a bit too much VVD? Please reflect on that. I have the following question for Mr Backer. Mr Backer brings with him an enormous experience, a record of service and knowledge. So when you look purely at personal experience, you think: well, that's exactly the man we need. But now it is true that prominent members of D66 have expressed themselves quite critically and negatively about FvD. We are therefore right to ask: to what extent can Mr Backer deal with us neutrally and objectively, and does he distance himself from the critical, negative statements of his fellow party members? Then and finally, I have a question for Mr. Ganzevoort. Wonderful speech. We have read your letter with attention, learn a lot from you and your personal ambitions. Still, I'm disappointed. I am disappointed and our group disappointed because we expected a personality like you, with such a warm heart for democracy, that you had distanced yourself from your own personal ambition and that you had given the voter the advantage. The voter who sent a very clear signal in March and May that they want more transparency, that they want a more critical note in the Upper House. If we stick to the old politics, the voter will not see them again. That would be bad for democracy, and that is something you must bear in mind. Please also reflect on that. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u6	Thank you. I thought you were going to make a speech, but you kept it to a question, Mrs Rookmaker. I call the spokesperson of the VVD. No questions from the VVD side. The CDA. Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Shortly, too. To begin with, many thanks to the four candidates, not only for their fine letters, but also for their clear speeches to advocate their role. I only have three very brief questions. One question applies both to Mr Ganzevoort and to Mr Bruijn, who simply has to do with the fact that they both perform very serious functions next door: both professors, one in Amsterdam and the other in Leiden. The function of President of the First Chamber is part-time, but it is also a function that requires full-time availability. I wonder if that would not create tensions, given past experience. Then I have, simply because Forum for Democracy is new to us, a bit of a Germans call a "Lärmfrage" to Mr Beucker. As far as I have followed, the Democracy Forum has conducted a very strong campaign to mobilise the electorate to say goodbye to this cabinet as soon as possible. That's okay, there's an election for that and there's a democracy for that. In our view, however, the First Chamber is not in favour of this. In our terms of reference, the First Chamber has an institutional function other than keeping Cabinets alive or sending them home. I would like to know from Mr Beuker how he sees this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Knapen for the four colleagues who, I would almost say, have had the courage to run and be part of a public debate and then conclude that there will probably only be one winner in the afternoon. Does that mean there are three losers? I don't know, because otherwise we wouldn't have to do this at all. Thank you for that. We have only recently met some of our colleagues. At least that goes for me. I know Mr Backer and Mr Beuker for about a month. I say to Mr Beuker as chairman, but also as a colleague, that we have worked well together in the past week as a member of the Committee on Kingdom Relations. We have known Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Bruijn for a while and it is actually a confirmation of the image that several of the candidates have put forward, namely that you have a strong basis for working in collegiality. That confirmation has arisen and only grown over the last few weeks. That is an important basis. Of course, we end up putting the candidates along the profile bar, but especially if they are all suitable, we also look a bit obliquely at who the other bow statues of the High Colleges of State are, like there are the Second Chamber, The Council of State, the General Court of Auditors and the National Ombudsman. If we all note that election results are rather fragmented, there would be too much party political "power" on the bows of High Colleges of State. I have a single question, also following on from what the candidates have said, and I have appreciated that they have given an insight into their personal lives. The question I would like to put to all of you is: when and why did they become members of the party they represent here in their group? Then we can put that against the mostly neutral and objective role you should have as President. I would like to put a second question to Mr Backer and Mr Bruijn, which is a little along the lines of what Mrs Rookmaker is saying. Impartiality and neutrality are important to the President of the Supreme Court. Then you may have to be biased once in a while, but then biased in front of the Chamber, especially when pressure comes from the cabinet. Since it concerns members of coalition groups, which may be a little more complicated, I would like to ask how they deal with this possible pressure and how they deal with it if that pressure is increased and possibly further increased. How then are they, as President, biased when it comes to the role of our Chamber? Often that is the majority of the Chamber, but it could also be a majority of the opposition versus the coalition. How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u9	Finally, a question to Mr Beuker. I was struck by his motivation. That's a good story. My question is: if he becomes President of this Chamber, has the party cartel been broken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin, on behalf of the D66 Group, by thanking the four candidates for their candidacy. That indeed requires courage and courage. There's really something to choose for us today. In the category "man" there is really something to choose for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u11	On behalf of my group, I have a number of brief questions. We would like to ask all candidates whether, should they not be elected as President today, they will be allowed to stand as Vice-President. We would like to hear an honest answer to that. Another question, also raised by Mr Knapen, is a question for the candidates Ganzevoort and Bruijn. In view of their CV and daily work, they have impressive, heavy positions as professor/dean, respectively, professor/medical specialist and also supervisory functions. The Presidency demands commitment and a lot of time. What choices are each of you going to make to give that presidency really serious meaning? Thank you very much. Those were our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thank you. The Labour Party is also pleased that four candidates have applied. We have choice, not entirely gender neutral, but there is choice. There is also a big difference between the different candidates. We're glad. I have a number of questions and I also agree with the questions that have been asked earlier. I can do that sometime. I have to ask Mr Backer what he thinks the importance of experience in this house is. What lessons can he draw or give from the Vice-Presidentship he has held in recent years? I would like to say to Mr Beuker that we very much appreciate that he apologized very quickly for the interview, which he himself mentioned. I wonder why you have not yet spoken to the current chairman of the CIDI. I was also wondering if you've spoken to any of the victims of MH17. That was another statement that caused some resurrection. He talked about the importance of tradition. In my view, this is difficult to relate to the criticism of the cartel in the Netherlands by the Forum for Democracy. What's the most important thing now? Is tradition the most important thing, namely that the largest party delivers, or is it more important that you have experience in chairing this Chamber? I would like to know what Mr Beukker thinks about this. Mr Bruijn (S). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Bruijn on his excellent report. I'm very glad we have a doctor in the room. In fact, we will have one if you do not become President. I'm glad you did, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u13	Can he give us a little more insight into his legal expertise? Then Mr. Ganzevoort. I think that GroenLinks is a large group, but you still have a small group in this House. Why is he running as a member of a small party in this house? I have the same question as my colleague Knapen from the CDA, namely: how is he going to do that with his various, nevertheless fairly heavy functions? We know from the previous President that she said it is a more than part-time job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their candidacy. You have to want it here, with 75 of those stubborn senators. Anyway, at least we have them and we also have a choice. They're men and I'm fine with it, because it's about us being the best person in the best place and it doesn't matter what kind of gender you have. Having said that, it is very important for the PVV that the President be independent. My first question is to Mr Bruijn of the VVD. Recently we have heard in the media that the then VVD Minister Opstelten has mixed in the persecution of my party leader, Geert Wilders. Wilders would be too hard to get in the way. Knowing this raises the question to what extent Mr Bruijn, who also represents the government party of the VVD, is independent and can stand above the parties. I'd like to hear a response from Mr. Bruijn. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Mr. Ganzevoort. Surely there is a case that is a little heavy on our stomachs. This concerns the Provincial State elections, especially in Limburg. There a provincial college was presented in which GroenLinks also provided a deputy, namely Mrs Brugman. Mrs Brugman doesn't spit in the face police officers, put no terraces on stilts, sit on cocaine, fake asylum applications for a terrorist organization, and yet she's on the nomination to be disbarred. Why? Because she wants to work with the PVV and the Forum. The reason? No, I've already mentioned it. I'm a little upset myself, Mr. Chairman. With this, GroenLinks presents itself as a party of exclusion and discrimination. How is such a party supposed to give an independent President of the Senate? Or perhaps Mr.Ganzevoort himself runs the risk of being disbarred, for example if he gives the PVV too much space in the debate. I'd like to hear a response from Mr. Ganzevoort. I just wanted to leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank all four Mr Bredenoord for his candidacy. I wish all four of them every success. I have a number of questions that I would like to address to all the Members who have applied. First of all, the question about the spotlight in which we Members of Parliament are constantly standing, and also about the ongoing discussion on integrity issues and the appearance of conflict of interest. This, of course, applies to the senators; we have the integrity committee for that. But it is even more true of the President of the Chamber. It applies not only to his own integrity, but also to the sentiments for possible integrity breaches by the members of this Chamber. My question is therefore: do you consider yourself to be unspoken behavior? And do you think you have the antennae to make sure that you can point out to others, who may be involved in breach of integrity? My next point has already been raised by Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Bruijn. For this work there is two and a half days, but Mr President you are twenty-four seven, I say in good Netherlands. How do you plan to fit into any side-effects? You cannot say to the President of Parliament of Italy: I am sorry, I can never because of other activities on Wednesday. Moreover, this is also quite an international job. That was put down by the previous President. It is an international job in particular, because the President of the House of Representatives does not see much opportunity to do so. Do you think you can continue this line? And how do you plan to combine that with those side-effects? My next question has already been asked, but I'm gonna ask it again. How are we going to see you as President of all political groups, regardless of the political line? And how will you respond to requests from the government which fit directly into the Chamber's agenda, or which are curious under state law? What interest prevails? That of the Chamber or that of the government? My last question. What is your view on the renovation and the role we have in this renovation? How long are we going to stick to the fact that we're building a big, megalomaniac construction project here? Or can we also phase this whole thing? Are we gonna postpone this, or is the First Chamber getting started? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr President. It is absolutely a pleasure to spend these few hours under your leadership, Mr. President. But all good comes to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u17	At the same time, there are also four good candidates. Who knows, good will eventually continue, Mr President. In that hope, I would like to ask a few questions, while thanking the four candidates who have just presented themselves here. For my group, this pitch was important when considering which candidate we will ultimately choose. I would like to add a few more questions to the questions that have been asked for me. Mr Bakker said in his pitch that he wants to continue to improve the contribution of our Chamber to the debate and also to the system as a whole. Does he see any improvements? At what points does he see it before him? In fact, I would like to put that question to all four candidates. What improvements do you think are needed in this house? Or do you think it is important to let go of the way it is now? Can you reflect on that, just to put it right into the words of this Chamber? Furthermore, of all four candidates, I have seen even less of a view on the role of President in the external representation of this Chamber in society, especially in contacts with the media. What do you have in mind and how will you represent this whole Chamber? I have the following question for Mr Beuker. Where's Mr. Beefinger? I tend to look to the right because most of your group is on the right of the speaker's seat, but you're sitting to the left of it. Your party spoke during the election about the party cartel. How do you intend to be President of the people, Members, about whom your party pronounces as belonging to the party cartel? Are they unique members for you, or do they still belong somewhere in the party cartel? Finally, for our group, the question that has already been asked a great deal about the side functions of some of the candidates is important. How will they implement this in terms of time spent? And will they also quit secondary functions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the four candidates on behalf of the Animal Party for their candidacy, and I wish them well. The new President will be responsible for the renovation of the Binnenhof. I have one and the same question for all four candidates. Last year, a motion was adopted in this Chamber asking for the Binnenhof to be free of natural gas connections, if reasonably possible, after renovation, and for the sources of the heat grids to which the Binnenhof is connected to to be sustainable and free from greenhouse gas emissions. In the context of any tension between the binding that a President has, and at the same time keeping an eye on the different political backgrounds, my question is: how do the four candidates intend to deal with the implementation of this motion if they have been appointed President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the four candidates. Their nomination is a bold one. I agree with the earlier statements of courage and courage. For us, independence of the President from all groups, small and large, is of paramount importance. Two years earlier, as a senator, I also experienced the previous President and, of course, the debates under her leadership with all my fellow Members. I know the atmosphere of the Chamber and I would hope that the atmosphere in this Chamber is also among the new President as it was during the period I experienced with the previous President. I think it is very important how a President relates to the signals and wishes of the cabinet. One of my colleagues just mentioned it. It is important that the President plays an objective and pure role in this, especially in view of the independence of the First Chamber. I would like to ask the four candidates how they see it. I agree with Mr Ben Knapen's questions on the position of Professor of Mr Bruijn and Mr Ganzevoort, respectively in Amsterdam and in Leiden. Other colleagues have also asked questions about this. I think this is a very important question, which needs to be answered clearly. I also agree with Mrs Bredenoord's question as to whether candidates who do not become President are available for one of the two vice-presidentships. My group and I too would like to have a clear answer to that. I know colleagues Bruijn, Backer and Ganzevoort from my previous period, of course. I didn't know Mr Beuker. I particularly appreciate that he's had the nerve to join the arena here as a newly elected senator. That takes extra guts. I just have a question for him. I really have to say that, although it is only one of the aspects in the profile. How does he assess or estimate that he, as a new member of this senate, deals with parliamentary experience? We all have to start; that also applied to myself in any function, so we can't put that against him. What wasn't, isn't, but it's important for us to know if he can handle it properly, given his experience in all kinds of functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, have great respect for the four candidates and have found that they are four men. Some seemed to regret that. I have to admit to them that it has not been possible for my group to put a lady forward either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u21	I would like to say a little more seriously that at the end of this afternoon we will have not just one winner and three losers, but three MPs and one MP who is also President. It's not easy to come up with another question after the whole series of questions, but I tried. I'll put that question to all four at once. We are talking here about respectful dealing with each other and the like. In fact, the President-in-Office has done so. But that is quite an exciting situation, because the horror in society is noticeable, sometimes palpable and quite occasionally audible in the Chambers. I'm talking about the "Rooms," plural. My question would be: how does a President deal with, for example, personal insults here in this house, so of people who can defend themselves, of people outside this house, who cannot defend themselves here, or even of God, who does not have to defend themselves? How do you see your role in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is my "maiden question" to four good candidates. "Independence" is said, and "confidence." That independence lies with me, because I am the Independent Senate Group. I would like to put the following question to the new President. The whole of the Netherlands often has the image that it takes place here in The Hague, it is arranged here. But the Netherlands is much bigger: we have the Caribbean islands, but we also have Zeelánd, Frieslánd and also South Hollánd, but we already know that. My constituents live in the Randstad and the Randland. I represent 34% of all voters when they are given the opportunity to vote locally or regionally in municipal elections. These people want attention. I would like to ask all four candidates how they can convey the figurehead, the face of the First Chamber, to the periphery of our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. I will try to answer the questions in the order in which they were asked. Mrs Rookmaker asked me on behalf of Forum to waive a ruling. Now I would like to tell her right away that we should not ask each other in this Chamber, because we as a Chamber have our own legislative programme. All kinds of statements are made by friendly politicians and others on the other side, but this is about our own work, our own intention and how we relate to each other. To the Group of the Forum for Democracy, which is the largest group in this House in terms of voters, I say this: we are going to work constructively together. That's how I've had to do it in the last few weeks. I have no judgment on the content of your program. As President, I am trying to give all sides the room. There doesn't fit to distance and there doesn't fit a hug. I think that's the situation. Everyone's just as sweet to me. This brings me to Mr Rosenmöller's questions. Of course I have political preferences and in my own political heart not everyone loves me equally; in this position it does, otherwise it does not work. I've seen that here in the last few weeks, and I've been able to experience it. You asked about independence and opposition versus the coalition. That is much more nuanced than it is always proposed to us. There are also own-initiative laws. Furthermore, I have often experienced enough that colleagues across the street had signed the coalition agreement and supported a bill and we thought differently about it. I myself was in a group that had colleagues in the opposition in the first four years and then in the constructive opposition. My fellow Members are now a government group. And in all three situations, we can work with different majorities. The way you work here is that if you start with a content, there will be a political consideration later. I finally took different positions in various debates than my colleagues across the street, even sometimes when it mattered. So I didn't only do that if it was safe, but also if it could be decisive. There's another side to it, too. We all know that the procedure can also be political. We must treat each other fairly. Those who are associated with the opposition on the other side must also realise that legislation must ultimately be made here. So we should not seek solutions on the procedural side to block something. We have very good examples of issues where we always manage to do so. These issues are sometimes on the agenda and we always find each other. "Deputy Chairman?', asked Mrs Bredenoort. No. I've done that for four years; that's enough. I am now a candidate for this presidency. Everyone has praised the courage of our candidates to make us available. Yeah, if you don't dare, you're not president either. About the other functions. I worked here for a year as an employed man. I have experienced this as difficult, because then there is a hierarchical relationship, including in the time schedule. Since 2012 I am independent and I like that very much. And that's why I can have the availability I have. Mrs Vos asked about the importance of continuity. I think there are two elements in it, first of all the procedural, so how things are going. It is nice if you know how things are going, especially as President, and what variants may occur in the debate: order, points of order, speeches. Secondly, you have the substantive element. We had the AOW debate again this morning. I must then try not to say anything about the substance, when I myself had an AOW debate and a pension debate, including the interest rate and all these things more. It helps if you understand where a number of topics go. I've dealt with a lot of issues here, but don't go into them. You all have experience as president. It just helps if you know what the subject is about. But the role of the President is to guard independence and continuity. And of integrity, in response to a question by Mrs Faber about this. We have sat together on the Temporary Committee on Integrity, we have also reviewed all kinds of variants, and that is done away with. In the coming period, the President will have an important role to play in this regard, as regards the advisory function and the HC. In it, he must stand for integrity, but he must also stand for the complex considerations that are being made. Because there are often reports in the press and according to the media it is quite wrong. That doesn't have to be the case in practice, if you work it out. Then the HC and the Vice-Presidents. Let me say one thing about it: I hope that it will be a household committee composed according to all standards. The SP asked about spotlights and unspoken behavior. We have a procedure in our own political association: if you are going to apply for such a position, you will have to light your whole baptism for it very extensively. That's what I did. We've looked at everything again: are there things you might be criticized for? There aren't any, there aren't any.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u24	Yeah, I'm gonna finish up. I could dedicate five minutes to the renovation. Then I could answer Mrs Faber's question. Phasering is, I think, no longer on the agenda. We shall see, we have agreed ourselves on the preliminary draft, but there are still a lot of phases ahead. So I think we will have an opportunity to discuss this subject. The same applies to the implementation of the motion. Whether a motion is carried out is ultimately up to the Chamber and in this case also the government. The sanction on non-execution is coming back here. So what are we gonna do? Mr. Chairman. I have to finish. I cannot leave Mrs Bikker's question, if I may. Then you'll give the others an extra minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u25	I'll give you another piece of advice!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u26	What could be better? I think we can make much better use of the knowledge potential in society. There are knowledge institutes, universities, which we can bring much closer to us to draw from them. I do not think that we are doing European legislation well enough. We can improve on that. I think we can do the feasibility test better, and I think, in response to Mr Gerbrandy's question, that we are seriously neglecting the links with the provinces. The previous President had plans to meet in several provincial houses. Maybe we can do that when we're temporarily moved in. In any case, as President, I would like to visit each province once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleagues. Great questions. There's a lot of them, and I have to make pace. Anyway, I'm a little used to that, so that's okay. I'm trying to deal with them in the order of the speakers. Mr Knapen's question, which he called a Lärmfrage, was about the function of this house to send the cabinet home if necessary. Well, I can be very brief about that: if I become President of this Chamber, I will not be part of it. This President will be impartial, independent and neutral, and he does not play a role in this. He's gotta keep a low profile on that. The debate is taking place at other locations, and I do not need to go into that further as President. Mr Rosenmöller asked when and why I became a member. That was a few years ago. A friend of mine said, "Hey, you're living on Scheveningen; you're not gonna buy a dog and spend your days with that dog like an old man?" I think, no, I'm not gonna do that, I'm still feeling way too good, way too energetic. Then I went into politics. I've been a member of the VVD in my youth, which membership I quit when there was such intense cuts in Defense. I really had to distance myself from that. When I put the party programs side by side, I ended up at the Forum for Democracy. What really appealed to me, in particular, is the renewal of the windows. You asked if, if it's me, the cartel is broken. In fact, that question is already a bit embedded in the fact that the cartel exists. But if you're president, you're above that. You didn't break the cartel with that, but you're just above it. The SP asked how we deal with it in the spotlights. I think this lovely house is gonna be in the spotlights a lot in the next few days. That role is often under discussion. The Remkes Committee has also said all kinds of things about it. I think we're all gonna have an exchange of views on that. So it's not a bad thing to be in the spotlights, because we also have nothing to be ashamed of. The answer to the questions about my side activities is very simple: I have one very small side business, an advisory. But I have a discussion on that on Thursday, and I think I will end that, so that we can have more time for the work here in this Chamber. The question about the renovation of this house, how we're going to do it and what's preferable. I think it would be preferable to do it in stages. I don't think it's convenient to want to do everything at once. But I'm gonna have to be convinced that it isn't. I've learned "Petit à petit, l'oiseau fait son nid," you're doing it one step at a time. Why do you have to tear everything apart at once? It would be wise to do it anticyclically. The whole construction market is pretty overwhelmed, so if we start phasing it out and temporizing it now, it might come out quite well and the price could still be down. The Christian Union, Mrs Bikker, asked what improvements are needed in this house. I'm still too short for that. It would be very arrogant to indicate at this stage what improvements are needed. But there's a reason I'm wearing this beautiful tie, which is attached to another story, which I'll tell you again. I don't want to go through the porcelain cabinet like an elephant. I think this house is very respectable and neat, and that's how it is with each other. We have to stick to that. Someone has asked how we deal with personal insults and how the President acts. When I am, I'm very simple in that: then you step over a threshold with me. I always said to my people I worked with in the Defense Department: you can make any mistake out of me, I will certainly make mistakes myself, I have already done that, but there is one type of mistake that should not be made, not even in this house if I am President here, and that is a mentality error. A mentality error is made when you insult someone, and that is not acceptable. So that's very simple for me. That I have plenty of time, I have indicated. The answer to Mrs Bredenoord's question is simple: no. That is not all or nothing, but I am also in the States of South Holland for Forum, which is also dear to me. There I had almost 13,000 preferred votes. So if I do not become President, then I choose to remain in the Senate, but also in the States of South Holland, and not to be Vice-President. Then you'll know the same thing about me. Mrs. Vos asked me if I had spoken to the victims of the MH17. I didn't. I didn't mean to offend them or anything. I still endorse all the conclusions of the JIT. The fact that I spoke to Mr. Nathaniel is simply because someone in my circle had his phone number, so I could approach him quite easily. He's been the longest president of CIDI. He's always been a figurehead to me, too. He is still very active in the Jewish community. That's all there is to it. You also asked about the tradition if the experience: what is most important to you? I always said quality is commitment, but also motivation. You can make all kinds of things out of that. I think it's about the quality of the candidates. I've seen that we have great candidates, and that should be the preferred option. I said in my pitch: tradition is beautiful, you can respect it, but I think it is quite right that you, as my colleagues, should choose who your President will be. That's the spirit. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u28	Yes. Let's see. I think I've had all the questions, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the interesting and often justified questions. I'll start with Mrs. Rookmaker. Independence and too much of one party. I'd almost say you can never have too much of some parties. But since I'm here as an independent candidate, I won't say that. I'm sure you'll find it, too, but we're not here to split jobs. That would almost look like a cartel. We are standing here to elect a President, and it is not part of this that we are going to see which party already has functions and which party is now entitled to a position. I don't think we should put ourselves past that measuring bar. So I'm not working on it either. I'm not standing here on behalf of a party either. That is where my independence begins as your President-in-Office, hopefully. Mr Knapen talked about side functions and time. A number of other colleagues have also asked questions about this. That is, of course, a very important question. Indeed, some of the candidates, including myself, have another main function. Over the past 6.5 years, I have felt that it is very important and good to be in reality, alongside the function here, elsewhere in society. I think the same applies to the President. Our previous President also had various functions. That does not alter the fact that, of course, you always have to give priority to work here, both in time and in attention. The profile says we're talking about five, six days a week. I can do more than that. If more is needed, I can also meet it, because I have talked to my employer about this. He even has a special provision in our UMC collective agreement which provides for as much time as necessary. It also helps that the Presidency of this Chamber is a paid post. So you don't have to go backwards in that sense either. My children will still be able to eat, even if I spend a lot of time on the First Chamber Presidency, which I hope to do, of course. Mr Rosenmöller asked about joining a party. I've already told you something about my childhood. I have already mentioned the social involvement of my father as an entrepreneur, of my parents in the world. They've been through the war. In addition to my studies and work, I became interested in society. I joined a party early in my student days. At home it was often about freedom, it was often about democracy. If you do not think too deeply then you will of course come to a certain party where that is also in the name. I have always felt very at home there, but also with full respect for all other parties who, of course, share standards and values with each other very often. Once again, I say: I am not here as a candidate on behalf of a party. So I don't mention that party either, but you can guess which one it is. The question about the position of the First Chamber is a very important question from Mr Rosenmöller. Of course, the First Chamber is often under pressure. I have often seen this under pressure of time or under pressure from a cabinet. It is important that this Chamber is an independent Chamber, based on state law. We must focus on our main task, which is to assess legislative proposals on quality, legality, feasibility and compatibility in European legislation. All the other things that happen to us are secondary to that. That is particularly true of the President. On the other hand, of course, there is always an understanding of the importance of a ruler who would like to have dealt with his bill quickly or very slowly. We will deal with this with the necessary courtesy, but the quality of the work is paramount. It takes time sometimes. I believe that we have seen a very good example in my predecessor. Mrs Bredenoord is concerned about my future, should I not be elected today. I don't share that concern. I really don't think we should be doing that today. There are also Members here who are not yet able to stand as Vice-President. If we start that campaign now, it would be an advantage for those who can. Besides, I'm not working on it. I stand here today as President-in-Office of the Council and I have the ambition to become President. Mrs. Bredenoord also asked about the time. I think I've already answered that question. Mrs. Vos said there's not always a doctor in the room. It is true that the spokesmen are not always in the Chamber. The only ones that are always there are the Registrar.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The President is always in the Chamber. If you think it is important, you will obviously think so, because otherwise you would not have asked that question, or that there is always a doctor in the Chamber, then vote for Bruijn, I would say. That's the only way to guarantee it. I welcome your support and the support of your group as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mrs Faber mentioned independence. I think I've already answered that question. I would like to go into some more detail, because it is an important question, quite rightly so. The President of this Chamber must be independent. I would like to refer to my CV, in which you can see that I have often been chairman of all kinds of gremina, where independence was absolutely indispensable. I pick one out that I liked very much: formatter in Rotterdam. That was after I was allowed to take over the fine work of the informant, a very important function that GroenLinks was awarded at the time, a year ago. Speaking of sharing jobs... That was very easy, because the informantship was well done. If you as a formattor in Rotterdam, or Leidschendam-Voorburg because that's where I was, aren't completely independent, then you'll be able to keep that up for a very short time, because there are very critical groups, including the PVV group. In doing so, I believe I can be independent President, regardless of the fact that I also enjoy doing so. It's a matter of converting the button. Mrs Bikkers asked about the system and what could be improved. One thing we have quite clearly been doing ourselves, and that is integrity. That does not mean that it was not in order with integrity, but with the previous Chamber we have seen reason to put it high on the agenda and to adapt the Rules of Procedure to it. Now we're going to start rolling out our new integrity code. We're gonna see if we can appoint an external confidant. We're gonna talk about it twice. If it is right, we have all given more insight into the nature of our secondary functions on the website. If it isn't, I'll call you to make it quick. Apparently, we all see there's something to improve. I think that this is an important and up-to-date answer to your question, as well as, of course, support for small groups, which is always a very important point of attention. That is what we are often going to talk about, I say to some people, including Mr Gerbrandy. I would like to come to Mr Schalk's point about personal insults. I only have one word for that: unacceptable. Unacceptable inside this house, unacceptable outside this house, unacceptable everywhere. I can't really say anything else. That is true of all the ways in which that happens. Then there was another question about internationalisation and about travel. Mr Knapen, Mrs Bredenoord and Mrs Gerkens spoke about time, including in the international context. From my work I am used to operating internationally and representing internationally, to maintain contacts. I just find that incredibly nice to do. The profile also says something about languages. Yo parlo Italiano, yo hablo Español, je parle Français, ich spreche Deutsch, I speak English.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u31	And especially for Mr Gerbandy: Fryslân Boppe, Hollân yn 'e Groppe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u32	Now I'm almost challenged to continue in Indonesian, but I won't do that today. Thanks for the questions. I've tried to cluster them a little, but I'll start with Mrs. Rookmaker's first question. I understood them as: why do I not support Forum, because it has attracted the majority of voters? That would be a bit too party-political answer, I think. I think the question before us today is: who do we think is going to be the best President for this Chamber? I hope I can convince you of that, but we'll see. It is a bit in line with Mrs Vos' question as to why I can do so while I come from a small group. Look, small and big don't exist that much anymore. The nice thing about this Chamber is that you don't have a few large fractions and a few small ones, but that it's actually a sliding scale from smaller to bigger. My party has been small, the group I come from. But I'm standing here on my own behalf as one of the 75. I think that is the largest group here and I hope we can make it happen. It is also good, I think, that in this respect we are not just looking at representation, but at who we are with each other. Questions have also been asked, and of course I am very interested in them, about availability. It's certainly true that I do a number of things side by side. I have always done so and I hope that my life will continue to do so, but that availability is, of course, an important point. That is also the reason why, in my main task at university, I discussed what is possible to put into my duties, to transfer a number of things, so that there is plenty of time available and, in particular, flexibility, because I think that is more important. There are still a number of tasks, because I'm still a supervisor out there. As soon as I become President of this Chamber, I shall at least put it down. With each other there must be sufficient time and, above all, flexibility, I say again. When and why did I become a member of the party I am a member of? That was about ten years ago. What drew me and what kept me busy at that time and actually still is the question of your ideals and what is needed in this society. What I see is that we have a society that has to do with polarization. That also affects Mr Schalk's question about insults. We have a society that finds it difficult to find one vision and one direction with each other and in which we look for ways to do so. For me this is an essential point: where is the connection in society, where do we find another shared story for the future, where is the vision? So that also calls for a substantive political debate, in order to jointly seek out what is important. There was also a question as to whether I am also a candidate Vice-President. I do not think that this can be combined with the Presidency, so I am not going to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u33	Even if someone else is elected as President, I think it would be better for diversity not to sit as Vice-President. Then there was a question from Mrs Faber, and I will translate it in this way: to whatever extent I can see the scope for cooperation with the PVV within this Chamber. I'm just reminding her how we've done that in KOREL over the past few years. As President of KOREL, I have always ensured and made room for colleagues from any group, including the PVV, to participate fully within KOREL and also within the delegation to the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. Mrs Gerkens asked me if I consider myself to be of unspoken behavior. My answer is no, in the sense that people discuss my behavior. And I think that's good; I think it's good that people discuss our behavior, because we live here in a transparent house and because what we do and who we are also matters politically. I think that's excellent. I'm not afraid of what's being said about us in the press. I think it is valuable that we should be put against a measurement standard across the country when it comes to our integrity and transparency. In fact, that is in line with Mrs Bikker's question: what improvements do you see? I think that we are on our way and will continue on our way to more transparency, including when it comes to our meetings, for example, that we are going to facilitate this more technically, on our way to thinking more and looking more critically and self-criticism where our integrity lies; not only because we are convinced that we are doing well, but also because we can show that to others, who can respond to it and find some of it and then we have to defend ourselves wherever it is necessary. I hope that we will learn in the near future that, as Members of Parliament, we will address each other, within our own groups, but also across the boundaries of political groups. Is it wise for you to speak with this background, with these side functions in this area? I believe that we should ask each other such questions, without political ulterior motives, but in the interests of this Chamber as a whole. Then there was another question about the vision of the external representation. I think that is very important, not just ceremonial. I have a lot of experience with that and always a lot of fun. As a dean, one of my great privileges is to preside over academic ceremonies. The beauty of that ritual and its stylisticity also make it possible to have a fierce academic debate within it. I think that ceremonial game is very important and very nice to do. It is also a question of how to play a role in social discussions as a representative. That is why I used the words 'inspiring figurehead' because I think it is indeed important that this Chamber should be represented by someone who can naturally address the media, who does not hide behind procedural uncertainties and so on, but who wants us in that debate to look for coherence and for connection in the Netherlands, but also for what exactly are those values that we consider important to each other, to respect each other and to work together for the future. Sustainability seems to me to be an essential element, Mrs Teunissen, when it comes to remodeling. Sober and effective are the terms that are currently being used. I do not personally have a very strong opinion on the form in which it is important, except that it should serve the work of this Chamber. Finally, Mr Schalk asked what we do with insults. I too can be very brief about this: Rule 94 (2); we have a Rules of Procedure for a reason. And then Mr Gerbrandy asked about the periphery of our country. As I do not believe that there are small and large groups, I believe that there is a periphery or a nucleus. We are our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u34	We're gonna be a while. The result of the vote is as follows: On candidate Backer fifteen votes were cast, on Beuker sixteen, on Bruijn twenty and on Ganzevoort twenty-one. One vote is invalid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u35	Thank you. I note that with the number of 73 Members present and one invalid vote, none of the candidates obtained an absolute majority. This means that Rule 116 (1) of the Rules of Procedure requires a second vote. Once again, all candidates will participate in that second vote. As I have already announced, we shall first suspend this sitting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u36	The result of the vote is as follows: For candidate Backer 16 votes were cast, for Beuker 16, for Bruijn 23 and for Ganzevoort 18. A total of 73 votes were cast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u37	Yes. 11 blank votes were cast. 28 votes were cast for Mr Ganzevoort and 34 for Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-eerstekamer-8.u38	Colleagues, members of the Upper House. Thank you very much for your great confidence. I would like to thank those Members who voted for me. To those Members who did not vote for me, I can say that I will do my utmost to gain your confidence. I would also like to thank the other candidates with whom I have joined in this procedure, whom I have respected and appreciated very much. I look forward to working well with them over the next four years. I look forward to working with you, Members and colleagues. I look forward to working with the Registry. I look forward to working with all Members. I thank my father who has been in the stands for 61 years. I'm suspending the sitting until quarter to five.
