ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on medium-term rental measures. I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. She was here late last night, too, but I suppose she went home in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Kurhaus of the VVD Group with ten minutes' speaking time. It is perhaps good to make it clear in advance that speaking time is, of course, a little wider because it is a law, but that it does not all have to be used up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The name is "Kurhuis" and not "-haus" and that's "building houses" I always say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. A good and affordable house is important to everyone, whether you rent or buy. Unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly expensive to rent a house. The reason for this is clear: there is a shortage of middle rental homes. That's why we have to build, build, build. I keep saying it, Mr. Chairman. Where the market works, let's build the market for middle-rent housing; where the market does not, we will simplify the market test for corporations and let's build corporations for middle-rent housing. Both measures are in the law. I'm happy with that. At the same time, I would also like to stress that, with these measures alone, we will not solve the deficits. There's got to be more middle-rentals. Corporations have built far too expensive social housing in recent years. We'll have to rent these out as mid-rentals. Thus we create more offer of middle rentals and lower middle rental prices. I also have a number of questions for the Minister. As mentioned earlier, today we are going to simplify the market test for corporations. Corporates have to get to work. According to the Minister, the mid-rental branches of corporations have 4 billion cash on the shelf. That 4 billion cash could lead to an investment of 10 billion in middle-rent housing. Together with the CDA, Mr Ronnes, the VVD wants that money to go to middle rent, but the minister suggests that this 4 billion should be transferred to the social rental branches of corporations. Is the Minister prepared to make arrangements with corporations to use this money to build middle-rent housing? I have already said that 4 billion in cash could lead to an investment of 10 billion in middle-rent housing. Corporates should attract funding from investors for this. For this purpose, corporations must provide collateral to investors. Now, social housing is often used as collateral. This is a risk, because in the event of the bankruptcy of social rental branches of corporations, which we have unfortunately seen too often in recent years, I call Vestia and Geertruidenberg, the Social Housing Guarantee Fund uses that collateral to reduce losses for the corporation sector. I see that WSW now allows corporations to give that collateral to investors if the funding compared to the WOZ value of the collateral falls below 50%. That is fast and there are risks, as I said. Is the Minister prepared to allow the WSW to give the collateral less quickly to investors and to tighten the standard, for example to the 40% that is already being used in practice? Mr. Chairman. I would like to table an amendment, because corporations are frightened by a sky-high rent tax and renters of middle-rental homes are the victims of this. The VVD intends to abolish this tax. If corporations rent out middle-rent housing on eternally purchased land, Amsterdam requires those corporations to repay those land discounts, the so-called lease tax. This charge may amount to two tonnes. Two tons, Mr. President! This amendment therefore proposes that municipalities should no longer be allowed to require corporations to repay long-term discounts on medium-term leases on ever-buyed lease land. It's crazy too. There is a considerable shortage of middle rental homes, but the left-wing college of Amsterdam sabotages the place with a sky-high lease tax, which is either passed on to tenants or stops corporations from offering middle rental homes. In addition, the college also collects the lease tax with bad arguments, because if corporations rent middle-rent housing on their own land, they do not have to repay the land discounts from the municipality as long as the proceeds remain in their social branch. But if corporations do so on perpetually bought-off land, Amsterdam requires them to repay land discounts due to state aid rules, while perpetually bought-off land is economically the same as own land. The argument of the State aid rules is therefore not a valid argument. State aid rules are about creating an economic level playing field and looking through legal structures. So let us abolish this Amsterdam tax and stop corporations from offering middle-rent housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The law that we are now discussing must ensure that barriers are removed so that corporations can increase the supply of rentals with middle rents. Finally! The CDA wants corporations to be able to build faster and easier in the middle segment if the market doesn't pick it up quickly. Corporates together have 4 billion on the shelf to invest in the so-called non-DAEB, i.e. the middle segment in the free rental sector. We found the Minister's remark that housing corporations could add EUR 6.1 billion extra to the construction of social housing by moving 4 billion from their commercial branch to their social branch, whereas this is explicitly money for and from the commercial branch that can be invested in the much-needed new building for middle hire. One of the priorities in our coalition agreement and the housing agenda, right? That's how I ask the Minister. This in turn leads to extra flow from social housing to the middle segment. In our view, that is what we need to get the housing market moving. I'd like a response from the Minister. How does she see this, also in view of the reports that have been published in the press? Mr. Chairman. Corporations notice that the pressure to also serve middle incomes is rising all over the country. If we do nothing, the gap between social rent and initial rent in the market is getting bigger. Then there is simply no offer of homes between €700 and €1,000. The cooperation stands for middle hire and the Van Bochove Committee advised that corporations should still play a greater role. But the market test prevents corporations from doing so. Corporates shouldn't just realize middle-rent. They must first ask the market if the market wants to take this up. That's what we call the market test. However, municipalities hardly organize market tests. The most famous market test took place in The Hague. It took more than a year. It's too complex. Therefore, there is rightly this adapted legislation, which should remove obstacles and delays. The CDA has also been in favour of this market test, but if we now look at how that market has developed, we must note that this market test is an unnecessary obstacle. The adjustment made by the Minister is a first step, but should we not go beyond the Minister's proposal? I have two questions for the Minister. What would happen if we were to complete the abolition of the market test? That is the so-called Article 44c. What would be the effect of further simplification, for example by excluding homes with a rent up to €1,000 from that market test? I wonder how the Minister sees this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	I see that Mr Smeulders is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	I welcome this contribution from the CDA. I think we all want more middle-rental homes. We see that the market isn't picking this up, so why make it so hard on the corporations? Can I conclude from Mr Ronnes' questions to the Minister that it is a real option for the CDA to simply delete the whole market test?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	We are asking whether the Minister's proposal is an option that goes far enough. Couldn't we go a step further? I have been told in preparation that you can finally do so by completely abolishing it. But we have also read the criticism of the Council of State. So it's just a quick search for where you're gonna lay that bar. You might also be able to work on an intermediate solution, for example excluding the rents between €700 and €1,000 from that market test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	I welcome Mr Ronnes' answer again, because I have just tabled an amendment on these two points. And I would very much like to do that with Mr Ronnes, so I think it would be a good idea to have a discussion on this in response to the Minister's answers, to have coalition and opposition working together. I hope that Mr Ronnes will be open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	I would like to respond briefly to that. It could be options. A third variant is possible. Actually, there are four possible variants. You take care of it through a motion and let the minister do it in an AMvB. Or eventually you come to the conclusion that you shouldn't do the change. But the course of this debate will make it clear what we are getting at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes, Mr President, I was already standing, because I too am pleased with Mr Ronnes' contribution. Where we always hear the VVD shouting "market, market, market," we now see a coalition partner moving ever further towards the opposition. So I also thought: perhaps I will not join Mr Koerhuis, but I would like to have a debate with you. Because market is indeed not the solution. I would like to ask you about the first point in your speech about the 6 billion. That comes from the answer to the written questions. Federation Reception said this weekend that there are 80,000 social rentals too few. Do you recognize this? And do you acknowledge that this also requires money, so that the corporations can build?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	This is actually asking about the well-known road, because you know that at the moment in the housing market there are just terrible deficits in all categories. We have to make sure that there is a build-up. We launched a proposal a few weeks ago, including with the coalition parties. You did not support this proposal, for your miraculous reasons. But that would have helped very much in the short term at the bottom of that market. But yes, there must be housing; in that category, but also in the middle segment. Because if we add up to the middle segment of housing, the social sector can flow through the people who can, and that means that there will be more space. So it's not whether, it's en-and: you have to take care of the social rental sector as well as the middle segment. Through this reinforcement, we will make sure that more capacity becomes available more quickly in both segments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think we're gonna get somewhere slow. What scared me a little is that a lot is happening, but that we are not addressing the cause of the problem: all those taxes that the cabinet is levying. We're gonna turn people against each other. We say we take money away from the social rent for middle rents, and vice versa. We say that people themselves cause the problems, while we know that the cabinet contributes to causing the problems. Now I have a specific question. I too have tabled amendments, for example to ensure that we maintain that people who have low middle income or average middle income also end up in social rent, because 30% of those who cannot afford middle rent. Would you support that from the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	Shall we continue to do everything from the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	Of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	This is a very interesting aspect. You come to the affordability of rentals. I think we will have a debate on this shortly. The Minister announced that she would also come forward with a number of proposals for this affordability. That seems to me to be the place where we should have this discussion. I would therefore like to limit it now to ensuring, above all, that we add extra middle-segment housing, because there is a terrible shortage of it. And don't try to solve everything, because then you won't solve anything under the line, because you can't do that in this one debate. And here's the thing, Mr. Chairman. What would be the effect of giving municipalities the room to differentiate locally in SGEI limits? Does that help corporations to invest in rental homes with a rent between €700 and €1,000, as suggested by the Van Bochove Commission? What do you think the effects are? Depending on the Minister's reply, we are considering amendments to the above points, if they have not been tabled, or perhaps a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	I told you before, I thought the CDA was a regional party. It sounds quite technical: local differentiation of SGEI boundaries. But that's nothing but letting the rest of the country pay for more social rent in Amsterdam. Or did I misunderstand Mr. Ronnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes, you misunderstood. If you have listened carefully, I have asked the Minister what the possible effects would be. I am open to all options for the problem of the housing market in the Netherlands, which is why I am addressing this question to the Minister at the moment. Does she have any insight into that? If she doesn't, my follow-up question will undoubtedly be whether she can make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	That is already a step in the right direction for Mr Ronnes. Then one final question: if it turns out that one of the effects is that the rest of the Netherlands, the region, has to pay more for social rent in Amsterdam, does the VVD think the CDA at its side not to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	I don't see that one-two-three happening yet. But that is not the point of my question either. The purpose of my question is that there will be an affordable home for anyone looking in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u25	Then I come to the point of criticism of the proposal by the Council of State. The Advisory Section concludes that the proposed amendment to the Housing Act is superfluous and also extends the scope of that Act in an undesirable way. I was somewhat surprised by the certainty with which this was said, but it is nevertheless very critical. We should like to hear from the Minister whether it is sufficient to supplement the explanatory statement to correct the shortcomings identified by the Council of State. The Council of State also considers that the relaxation of rules for non-DAE activities requires an understanding of the safeguards ensuring transparent and fair competition between corporations and market participants. My question to the Minister is therefore: how is fair competition guaranteed in her eyes? Then I come to a point that I do not want to leave unnamed: the finances. There is still a lot of noise about whether corporations have enough money now or whether they are burdened too heavily with the landlord tax, the ATAD, etc. The implementation of our earlier motion, which was able to count on a very broad support in this House of Representatives, on the social challenge versus the financial capacity of corporations, remains urgent. Once again, I would ask the Minister to come forward with the results of this investigation as soon as possible. Let's talk about the effects in practice. We have previously raised the question of which municipalities have concrete plans to deploy additional instruments from this bill and how many homes will be created as a result. So far, the answer has not been very concrete. Can the Minister now be more specific? How many more homes are going to be built if this law is passed in both chambers? Then I come to one final point: the municipalities. The municipalities want to regulate the price-quality ratio of the middle rental homes. That is a good thing, because there are really excesses now. Because of the distorted market, exorbitant rents are required, the ratio between price and quality is far removed. Municipalities also want to be able to control the period when a middle-rental house remains available as a middle-rental house. This can now be done through the ten-year zoning plan, but municipalities are looking for more. We understand the question of the congregations, but they shouldn't freak out. It can't be that the rental price is fixed forever, because then investors quit. How does the Minister intend to deal with this? Where can the municipalities draw the line? Because when people go crazy, they don't build.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u26	I see Mr Nijboer wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u27	We are talking about middle rent, so rent above €720 and up to €1,000 or €1,100, depending on how you look at it. I wonder how the CDA looks at the problems that people, who pay such a rent, have when they get a rent increase for the choices that aren't actually legally limited. How does the CDA feel about that? There are also many families living in such a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u28	This is a subject that you rightly address. We are talking about those middle incomes in the free sector that are not subject to an income test, which means that rents continue to rise indefinitely and the ratio between income and rent is distorted. That's a concern of mine, too. I have considered raising this point here, but I really think this is an affordability issue that I think we should address in the debate on affordability that we are about to have with this minister. It is a big problem because there are families for whom the rent is completely out of control because of the system that is being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u29	I'm glad the CDA really recognizes this problem, because those tenants are really outlawed. They can just get €200 rent from one day to the next in the month without being able to do anything about it. Yeah, moving, but they have nowhere to go. I will come up with proposals myself and an amendment, which I will then explain, to do something about it. So I hope to be able to do that already, but at least I think it is good that the CDA recognises this problem as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u31	I don't hear a question, so I'm going to see Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Nijboer said he was pleased that the CDA recognised the problem. Yeah, I agree, but the question is what we're going to do about it, because I actually find it a little embarrassing. You can't do much about that yourself, I say through the chairman, but the middle rent was the holy grail of this cabinet. We were gonna take care of middle rent. Now, after two years, we finally have this debate on a minimal legislative amendment which is also heavily criticised by the Council of State. And then we say: that people can't afford the houses we're going to build at all, that's what we're going to talk about another time. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely we can't pretend to be presenting the solution today, when we already know that a lot of people can't afford these houses at all? 30% of the middle-income people can't even afford that rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u33	These are curious conclusions that Mrs Beckerman draws. If you tie everything together, we can of course have a debate here with each other, but then it doesn't lead anywhere. We're here together to change the law so there'll be more middle rentals. If there are, its prices will go down as well. That's one. Secondly, I have just said that I recognise that affordability is also a problem for those middle-incomes. And the CDA would very much like to talk about this, but well-founded and in the context of affordability for low and middle incomes, in the sense that we are coming up with solutions to this. But that is not the subject we are discussing today. I would like to do that, Mr President. If you say that we can also put another item on the agenda today, I would like to participate, but I do not think this is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u34	I am going to add my substance to you, so I have no opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u35	It's easy. The problem is that people with an average income have been chased out of the social rent by previous cabinets, that they cannot obtain a property for sale and that there are no affordable rentals for which they are eligible. Then we wait two years for the cabinet to finally come forward with proposals, and then we say on the day itself: that is not what the debate is about. But that's what it's about. People can't get an affordable rental.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u36	Because there aren't enough homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u37	You're pointing back to the market. You say: if the market solves it, they will be cheaper. However, we have seen for years that this is not happening. Why don't you follow the opposition to do something today, so that people can live in such a house affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u38	Because the law we are discussing today is about adapting the regulations so that more homes can be built that reduces or eliminates the pressure on prices. I would like to have the debate on affordability with you, but it is not part of this law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u39	That's your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u40	No, it's not. I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u41	You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Ronnes. I shall then give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister makes two smaller legislative proposals to allow housing corporations and municipalities to steer and build some more homes above the rent liberalisation limit of €720 and further up towards €1,000, €1,100 depending on the region. In itself this direction is good as far as the PvdA group is concerned, because housing corporations can invest more, but they are also very small steps. So the question is: if you're talking about the housing shortage in the Netherlands, how many steps does this legislative change take? The cabinet or at least the Chamber has been there for two years, so we're halfway through the period. And if we make progress with these kinds of steps, I fear that the housing shortage will not be resolved. That is my key question to the Minister. What is she really gonna do to get it off the ground now that we're talking about middle-renting? Are the proposals she makes going far enough? I don't think so. I support the direction, but I do not think the proposals go far enough. So why not completely abolish the market test? That is a legitimate point from the CDA. I saw that GroenLinks has tabled an amendment to that effect. We fully support this, because why should this be completely framed? Is that necessary? Wouldn't that help a little more? Then more fundamental, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes would rather not talk about it today, because he says there is another time for it. Well, that's a procedural argument, but I do think it's necessary to talk about couples and single families who have accepted rent housing in the free sector. Then this is what you have to think of. You think, "What can I pay?" The rents in the Netherlands are sky high, so that gets people in the wallet. So one thinks: can I pay with my income a rent of €800 as a starter? Then it may just be that after a year you get a letter in which the landlord says: your rent will be €900 in the month starting next year. He says that three months in advance. Then it's hanging and strangling, because it was $800. And the following year it can go to €1,000. Those people can't go anywhere, because they earn too much to get rent payments and for the social housing there are waiting lists, although they are not even eligible. But if they wanted to, they couldn't. Then they consider working less hours to be eligible. They just can't make it anymore. They only pay 45% of their income in rent. This also happens with families with children. And there is no restriction For the rentals that landlords may ask for. The only thing that needs to be done is for it to be announced in good time. So there must be a couple of months in between, but in a few months you really can't move in the Netherlands with your family, at least not in all regions. Yes, it will work in Winschoten and in Delfzijl, but not in all regions. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely it is not possible to protect so badly a basic provision contained in the Constitution, namely 'everyone has the right to a home'? The only Maximation is in him that it should not be unreasonable in terms of market. But look at what is being asked in cities but also everywhere in the Netherlands for a rental house on the market, while you have just entered the private sector for €800 or €900 rent. That can be €1,200 or €1,300 three or four years later. That's just unbearable. And then you have to move and you have nowhere to go, because all those other houses are so expensive. I ask the Minister: why has she not made proposals to limit this? Mr. Chairman. Since the Minister did not make these proposals, I myself made amendments. These are two amendments. I say immediately that it is always arbitrary: where exactly do you set the limit, how many years do you take and what are the percentages? I would like to talk about all of that, and I would like to invite the coalition to do so. So I have made an example: if the rents have risen by 30% over the last five years, give those people a little break if they're still in that house. Then freeze it for several years. Of course, you can do it in three years or 25%. You can also freeze the rent for two years instead of three years. Of course, we can do all that. You have to set a standard as a political one, but this would be my proposal. I would like to talk about this, and I would also like to hear what the Minister thinks about it. Secondly, I believe that people entering a free sector housing should also have some certainty. It's a place, so you live there for a few years. Those people shouldn't be put on the spot and forced to move because they can't afford it anymore. So I think there should also be a maximum rent in the free sector. Of course, it's always hard to define. I admit that immediately, so I chose inflation plus 3% in the proposal. That's pretty big. If you have €1,000 rentals, you have an easy figure example and you add 3% plus inflation, then you already have €50 in one year. So that's getting pretty good. So that is not a maximation as if the Soviet Union had entered the Netherlands again, I would say. But you have to limit it somewhere. And now it's totally limitless. I get e-mails, messages, phone calls from civil servants who work here, sit in a rental house and can't afford it, from families in Zeist where things aren't going well. Mrs Beckerman is going to say something about that later. That is what we have agreed, Mr President. We don't have to make that difficult at all. That's really poignant. I think that there should be intervention. So I have proposed two legislative amendments to that effect. I am very curious to see what colleagues are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u45	You'll hear some of that. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u46	The VVD is just as concerned as the PvdA about too high rents. There is a lot to be built, but we also need to be careful not to make it more sustainable. Mr Nijboer tells half the story here. Renting in the free sector is generally simply maximized with inflation plus that 3%, which Mr Nijboer is talking about. Sustainability is often done by left-wing lectures, under the leadership of the Labour Party, but if these houses need to be preserved, against the cliffs, it costs money. Sometimes the rents do go up. So be honest and take a bit of gas back into this, even in the left-wing lectures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u47	First, an inaccuracies. It may be that a landlord writes in the rental contract: I maximize the rents with inflation plus 3%. That also occurs in the sector. Then you know what you're up to. But that's not mandatory anywhere. It doesn't happen very often either. There are a lot of contracts that don't have that in them. That's the kind of protection I want to offer people. I therefore hope that the VVD, which shares this point of departure with me, will also support it, so that we can settle it. You can't go anywhere if it's not settled. Tenants are thrilled when they have an affordable home, so there's really no tenant who's gonna negotiate the contract. You're just stuck with that. Two was the demand for sustainability. The PvdA Group is in favour of raising money, especially in the social rental sector, if it is preserved in the rental sector. Of course, that's a big problem with this coalition: she's creaming money off the housing corporations instead of helping them to make them more sustainable. Then the bill will indeed come to the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u48	The question wasn't about social housing. We're talking about middle rentals today. The Labour Party in left-wing lectures in the big cities of this country wants to make houses more sustainable. That costs money, that drives the rents. Are you prepared to go back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u49	No, I'm not. If you now build new houses that are all very drafty and non-sustainable, then you are... "Crazy" I'd say, Mr. Chairman, but that's a bit of a domestic word. I do not at all recognise that this is the problem. The problem is that there are apartment complexes that have nothing to do with them.They are just there, but where the rents are stretched because the market prices increase enormously because there is housing shortage in the Netherlands. Those tenants are nowhere to go. In Amsterdam there are whole streets where people last a year. They pay €1,000, €1,100 or €1,200 and then they leave. In practice, expats often come back for it. That has nothing to do with sustainability. You have to build new houses sustainably. If the VVD does not think so, it will go back even further in time than I expected from Mr Koerhuis, with the emphasis on 'home'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u50	Since it is a legislative proposal, there are a little more possibilities for interruptions. I'd like to ask you guys not to overdo it. In principle, interruptions go in two. I now allow one "finally," but that should not become a habit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr Nijboer cites the most extreme example: Amsterdam, where the Labour Party itself sits in the college. Mr Ronnes and I are very critical of this. We have put questions in debates and we have started a written consultation, because that is precisely where the PvdA Group is getting through with sustainability, and that is where I would ask Mr Nijboer to take back the gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u52	I know the VVD's how you say? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. That's okay, but I think it's a testament to future faith that if you build new homes now, you'll build them sustainably. That makes perfect sense to me. There are far too few houses being built about that we agree on so it does not have that much impact. But that you wouldn't do that sustainably, I would find a very bad thing; actually unimaginable. There are also a lot of private investors who do not even want that anymore, I would like to say to Mr Koerhuis. They understand that this is not possible anymore at this time and they want to build sustainably. Finally, Mr President. I've always learned to forge the iron when it's hot. Since the Christian Union has made very good proposals with regard to living in the Netherlands and I have tabled an amendment some time ago (35026, No. 40) to bring the transfer tax for start-ups to zero and increase it from investors to 10%.......................................................................................................................................................................... I think: well, those statements have been made, that's also nicely fresh, then we can just arrange it right away. Because you never know what's going on in politics, and it might as well be arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I shall then give the floor to Mr Smeulders of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy birthday from this place too. Almost every week we talk to each other and to this minister about the enormous problems in the housing market. And each time we also notice that there is a huge shortage, especially of affordable housing. In my opinion, in the year and a half that she is now in the cabinet, the Minister has spoken with almost all the municipalities, at least with a lot, with almost all the market players, often also with corporations. However, we do feel that the real solutions have not yet come much closer. Today we are finally discussing, we would like to say as GroenLinks, one of the Minister's first legislative proposals to do something about the cramped and totally out of control rental prices. Mr. Chairman. We also think it is really positive that there is a legislative proposal now, but GroenLinks doubts whether this bill will really have a substantial effect. Questions have just been asked by colleagues. I would be happy if the Minister would take that up in a moment. What exactly do we expect from this when we do this? Is it really gonna help? We have doubts about this because we think that the real problem of the housing market is actually already in that word, that we have actually started to see living as politics and as a government and have also started to approach it as a market. There used to be talk of housing in this house with respect. We have often put forward proposals for the government simply to take a clearer direction, for example by increasing the liberalisation limit, regulating the rent to 250 points in the housing valuation system or by taking fiscal measures to make it attractive for start-ups to buy a property and less interesting for investors. Mr Nijboer is putting forward proposals to this effect again today, which we very much support, and we are also coming up with an initiative paper this week to discuss at least some of these important points well and comprehensively, because we in GroenLinks are really convinced that it is only with a wide range of fundamental reforms that it is possible to achieve sufficiently affordable rentals, especially in areas where there are now large deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u55	I now hear Mr Smeulders talking about fundamental proposals. I have heard GroenLinks recently in provincial debates. GroenLinks says something very fundamental: we need to build less than the need, less than the demand. I was at a provincial debate in Utrecht where GroenLinks said: we have to build 30% less than the need, than the demand. To solve these shortages, to do something about those high prices, is it perhaps a first step to abandon that fundamental position of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr Koerhuis always says: 'building, building, building'. That is how we all know Mr Koerhuis. I think that is good, because when I think of Mr Koerhuis, I think of 'building, building, building'. It's a good thing you can do that as a Member of Parliament. And also as GroenLinks we think that there needs to be built. Only what I have a bit of a problem with is with the enormous emphasis that is being put on it. Suppose these are all homes in the Netherlands. Even if you can continue all your plans and build up all our beautiful green areas, you might be able to build up a little bit of that. What you're suggesting is that this whole existing part shouldn't be added to that. If we really want to solve the problems in the housing market, we must also be prepared to intervene in those existing homes in order to ensure that it remains affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u57	Then I understand Mr Smeulders. That 30% of the people he doesn't want to build for should just live in an existing home. So Mr Smeulders wants everyone to live smaller. That's what he means by "affordable."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u58	I think it's a creative explanation of my contribution. At least that's not what I meant. So maybe I should clarify. Of course we have to build; I have also admitted that. We are very critical about building in green, because once given away green probably never comes back. That is what our parties are simply disagreeing on. I don't think that's gonna make it any easier. My appeal to you is not only to emphasize the 2%, 3%, 4% or 5% that we may be able to add to the existing housing stock in the coming years, but also to make sure that all those existing homes remain affordable for people and that not only the house milkers are the big profiteers of the overstretched housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u60	I'd like to move on, Mr. Chairman, with what's in the bill. First of all, it is about the market test. What does that mean, and what does the Minister propose? The proposal is to give corporations some room for manoeuvre again to build houses above the liberalisation limit. There is now a very large shortage of homes with a rent between €720 and €1,100, also because in large cities that kind of housing is simply not built by the market at all. There really is a market failure. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is also really the sign that the sacred belief that some parties here in the Chamber seem to have in the way of market forces, which, unfortunately, is particularly true for parties within the coalition, is simply not sensible. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares that analysis with us. Like I said, it's a good thing corporations are going to have more room to jump into the hole when the market fails. But in order for corporations to be able to build more, it might be better not to simplify the market test so much as the cabinet proposes, which means that corporations have to jump through a little less hoops, but simply to abolish the market test. I very much hope that there will be support for this in the Chamber. For example, Mr Koerhuis of the VVD, he is now laughing at almost every debate about deregulating. He says we should have fewer rules. If we all, the coalition first, want more middle-rent homes to come and we see that the market is not working, why would we still put corporations in the way of building for that segment? That's what I'm curious about. Isn't it easier simply to abolish the rule, the market test? I am also very interested in the Minister's reaction to the amendment we have tabled on this subject, namely the amendment on item No. 15. Mr. Chairman. What is most important to us is that corporations can start building again in the middle segment, so in the segment from €720 to €1,000 or maybe a little bit above that. That is why I have also tabled an amendment on this, namely the amendment on item No. 14, in case the amendment on the abolition of the market test fails. If we, as a Chamber, say that something really needs to be done with regard to the middle rent, then we really need to deliver butter to the fish. I am also very curious to hear the Minister's reaction to the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr Smeulders said that in the big cities there is no construction at all in the middle hire segment by commercial parties, but I do know examples of cities where municipal authorities, in which I think D66 and GroenLinks also work together brotherly, are trying to get middle rental movements off the ground. The municipality imposes a number of restrictions, which I am generally happy with, unlike the members of some other parties. Those restrictions are imposed to ensure that commercial parties are building affordable middle-rental housing for a longer term, and they are doing so. Then why does Mr Smeulders say that this is not happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u62	I see that mostly left-wing municipalities, in which D66 and GroenLinks often sit together, are doing their utmost to ensure that affordable housing remains in the big cities for police officers, nurses and teachers. I can also see that these municipalities have a very heavy bobber on them. They should seek and use the existing legislation as much as possible, and they should actually extend it for possible land use rules in some cities in order to do so. These are moments when I think: why have we made things so complicated? We have a very long tradition of housing in the Netherlands, especially of housing corporations. Abroad, they always look at our beautiful system with a lot of jealousy. Wouldn't it make much more sense to reverse Minister Blok's policy of the previous cabinet, put the corporations back in their booths and give them the opportunity to build for middle segments as well? They used to be founded to do that. That seems logical to us, in addition to what Mrs Van Eijs rightly points out about the efforts that those left-wing lectures often make to achieve things within the current rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u63	On the contrary, I think that this bill is trying to give housing corporations, alongside market players, that space, so that they, as market players, cannot take up the gauntlet, can fulfil their task. That seems very good to me, but we have a history in the Netherlands of housing corporations that not only build for what is really needed and what the social task is, but also invest in all kinds of "wild" projects. And we don't want to go back there. It seems to me to be quite justified to say: housing corporations, do what is your core task, even where the market leaves it. But we're also giving the market a chance to jump in on that. Does Mr Smeulders think that this market should not come into being at all in the middle segment if we just want to do it nicely?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u64	I don't think so at all. I sincerely hope that the market will build many more middle-rent homes. In practice, we see that it doesn't actually happen now, unless lectures, municipal authorities, where we both pride ourselves on making very strict demands in order to get it done. I can go along with Mrs Van Eijs' comment. We have indeed seen, especially up to ten years ago, that some corporations have started doing things with social money that we all think: boys, that was never the intention. That is why we have tabled two amendments. One amendment aims to abolish the overall market test. I really believe that most corporations are now on a completely different track and do not do that kind of project anymore. The second amendment aims at abolishing the market test for housing between €700 and €1,000 and making it much easier for corporations to build in that segment. This is precisely what we want to convince parties like D66 to vote for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u65	That is a very good plan in itself, if the market players also get that chance if they want to. I wonder what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u66	Me too. That's what we're waiting for. We are also pleased that the cabinet is proposing that corporations should no longer meet return requirements at project level. However, it seems now that, if I understand the documents correctly, I would very much like to check with the Minister that there is still a requirement for returns at portfolio level. Why is that and what does that mean in practice? Does this mean, for example, that an average market rate of return has to be achieved? If so, does that mean, when a corporation builds a house of €850, that it also has to build a house of €1,250? 'Cause that's how I read it. If that is the case, that does not seem to make sense to GroenLinks, because then your corporations encourage you to build in the higher segment, but I think we agree that this is not the intention. Can the Minister explain how she sees this? On this basis, we would like to see whether we may have to table another amendment or a motion on it. This is rather legal, but I really hope that the Minister can clarify this. Mr. Chairman. Then the other part of the law. It's about scarce homes. According to this bill, municipalities can designate homes as scarce. This applies both to social housing and to liberalised housing. In this way, the possibility is created to label middle-rent housing as scarce at local level in the housing regulation. This makes these homes subject to authorisation, so that they can be allocated to a locally established group of households, such as middle income or start-ups. There are of course different categories possible. GroenLinks thinks this is an understandable proposal, when you see the housing market now, but it is really an emergency solution, which should be avoided as much as possible in our view. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she sees it that way. If corporations were to be given more space to realize sufficiently affordable housing, we would not really need it. Does the Minister share this view and is it its ambition to do so? Perhaps the most important question is to reform the housing market in such a way that this type of action is not necessary in the future? My final point concerns the Van Gijzel Committee, the Cooperation Table for Mid-Term Rental, as it is officially called. This legislative amendment is actually the result of this report. But Mr Van Gijzel's report contains even more sensible recommendations which the Minister, at least in this legislative proposal, has done nothing with. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister why she has chosen not to accept all the recommendations. For example, the committee advised to make performance agreements with market participants. We are curious to see what is going on with that. The Committee also called for two specific emergency buttons to be filled in for more temporary and local customization. One of these emergency buttons is in another Minister's bill. I wonder why it's not taken care of right away. We don't see the other emergency button anywhere. We'd like to hear from the Minister why. Mr President, I will conclude. You will notice that my group still has a number of questions about this bill. Yeah, it's a step in the right direction, but we're far from there. In particular, abolishing the market test, possibly entirely, but at least for real middle homes, is a very important point for us, so that corporations can start building for those target groups. I therefore hope that the Minister will join us in thinking about how to make this easier. Whether that is in the form of the amendments we have tabled or in the form of a motion that we have tabled... The way doesn't really matter to me, we really care about the goal: more affordable middle rentals for anyone who needs them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Smulders. I call Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union group, it is important that government policy, including housing policy, bridge gaps and not create gaps. The current housing policy contains a number of incentives that increase urban segregation rather than reduce it. Perhaps one of the reasons for this is that the constitutional duty of care for residence is seen as a duty of care only for income groups claiming a residence in the regulated segment. And yes, homes for this group are very much needed. But I am glad that this cabinet also takes care of the group that is just not eligible for such a social rental house, but is looking smartly for an affordable house with a rent of around €800 to €900 per month, because a property with a rent of over €1,000 is simply not payable. The policeman, the teacher, the nurse in the emergency room: they also have the right to an affordable home. It is here that a gaping hole has arisen and it is pressing for them to find an affordable home to live in. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union endorses the aim of the law to increase this offer and to clarify that the legal task of municipalities to combat the negative effects of housing scarcity is not limited to social housing. Following my introduction, my first question to the Minister is to what extent it envisages that this bill with these measures will make a concrete contribution to providing opportunities for middle income. The most important step taken by this bill is to increase the possibilities for housing corporations to build in the middle-priced segment. By giving housing corporations room for manoeuvre with the relaxation of the market test, they can jump into the gap left by market players while at the same time demonstrating the possibility of building middle-priced rentals in this market. 'Cause that's where there's a lot of tension right now. Investors need to be challenged to realise affordable rentals for middle income as well. In doing so, it helps if housing corporations are allowed to enter the playing field to stimulate market players to build not only for higher incomes, but also for the middle income. Can't we just give municipalities that extra backup in this? In particular, I am looking at the Minister's written reply that municipalities can include middle hire for at least ten years in the zoning plan. Do municipalities have the possibility to agree on this for a longer period of time? And is it true that they do have the opportunity to enforce a longer term in private contracts with project developers, as happens in the city of The Hague? Are municipalities sufficiently aware of the space they have in this? Or are they unintentionally inhibited in implementing ambitious housing policies? These are my questions to the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u70	I am very pleased that Mrs Dik-Faber is starting with affordability. That is a really important point. The VVD just said: "We all don't care, leave it to the market." The CDA dives away and says: "We'll talk about that some other time." Then I think it is very nice that another coalition party starts its argument with that. My simple question to Mrs Dik-Faber is: do you not find it painful that this law, which we have been waiting so long, does not do anything about affordability?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to solve all the problems that exist today in terms of living in our country and the affordability of housing, but that is not possible. With this law we are taking a step today, but that cannot be the only step. Let us indeed treat this law with each other today. I hope that this law will receive the support of a majority in this Chamber, but that is not what we are talking about. We still have a lot of debates. I don't want to hide behind that and move it forward. It is fine to discuss it today, but I think it is too soon to come up with a whole package of measures today on how we are going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mrs Dik-Faber is right: we cannot solve all the problems today, because a thick, thick mess has been made of our housing market, from which the word'market' absolutely has to be removed. It's a big mess. We can't fix that today. But we can start with it. The problem is that we are not doing that now. We're going to build houses that are unpayable for a very large part of the people they're meant to be. We can also take steps today. Are you prepared to do so, I would ask Mrs Dik-Faber through the chairman, for example, by saying now: let's go through that point system so that people do not get rent increases on rent increases? That can be arranged today and the question is: do you want to do it or do you not want to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. I am extremely pleased with Mrs Beckerman's words. These are also the words in the note that we published a few weeks ago: the housing market is simply failing at the moment. That's what I started. There are gaps in society and they are not covered by the housing policy we currently have. I would really like to go back to the old housing policy. I think Mr Smeulders took that word in the mouth just now. The government has just left a task to the market for too long. Too much has been left to the market and we want to put the government back in position. As far as Mrs Beckerman's specific proposal is concerned, I would very much like to look at it. I have not yet been able to look at an amendment text. Maybe there is. To be honest, I didn't get to study that. What we cannot now arrange with each other, we may be able to arrange at another time. So I'd like to offer that opening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u74	I see that Mrs Beckerman wants to respond to this again, but I do not want spokesmen to keep interrupting endlessly. I said that the interruptions go in two, and I actually want to stick to that. You have not yet taken that into account. I therefore give you the opportunity to make one small 'finally'. But from now on, the interruptions really go in two. So they need to be properly formulated so that you can get the most out of them. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this opportunity. We're dealing with a law, so we can go into it a little more deeply. And, of course, we've been waiting a long time for this, too. We've been here for two years and we've been hearing this for two years. And now, finally, there will be a very limited law. But thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think what Mrs Dik-Faber says is very nice and I firmly agree that we should remove the market and that we should be talking about proud housing again. But paper is willing, and you voted against two points that you included in that paper last week. Not words, but deeds. We are also making another proposal today. Would you at least agree with us on that point? We are also proposing today to increase permanently the income limit of social rent, which has now been temporarily increased, so that people with low or middle income are also entitled to an affordable home. That is what we have in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u76	I heard Mrs Beckerman say: we are going to push the market aside and we need to come back to a housing policy. Yes, we have to come up with a housing policy, but I also see that there are market players who want to take very good steps in this. So let's not push the market all the way out of the way. Mr President, Mrs Beckerman refers to votes that have taken place in this Chamber. I myself made a number of motions in those votes from our note, and they were adopted by this Chamber. As an example, I would like to mention the motion on transfer tax. I think Mrs Beckerman also supported that motion. The transfer tax should be further differentiated and brought to zero for start-ups. I think that's just a big step we're taking together as a chamber. And again, we can't settle everything with each other today, but we're going to take it one step at a time to get the government back to that role in the area of housing. And I'd love to do that with Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u77	I get the split Mrs. Dik-Faber is in a little bit. She has presented a plan with a lot of proposals in which at least the left-wing part of the Chamber thinks: hey, finally, the coalition has seen the light and we are really going to move back towards that housing and towards regulating the market. But I also understand that it would be difficult to put concrete proposals to the vote. You're in a coalition, that means something and then you can't change course on all fronts. Mrs Dik-Faber has now indicated a number of times what we are talking about today and what we are not talking about. At least today we are talking about the market test. One of the cabinet's proposals is to simplify that market test. Can't we completely abolish that market test? Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me, or is she at least prepared to take a serious look at that? If we abolish that test, corporations can really build more for the middle segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u78	I have indeed included that point in my speech. I hadn't gotten there yet, but this actually seems like a really good idea. I have already understood that there is an amendment tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. We ourselves, along with the CDA, have a motion in preparation. Let us look at what steps we can take, also depending on the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u79	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. Strengthening the negotiating position of municipalities is not the only reason to give more space to housing corporations for the construction of medium-cost rental homes. Especially in neighbourhoods where there are a lot of social housing, it can really be a solution if housing corporations can set up the much-needed middle-income housing during a restructuring. This can give a quality boost to streets and neighborhoods, and thus also housing corporations can start working to make neighbourhoods with sometimes up to 80% social housing more diverse. Does the Minister agree with us that this is also a positive effect of simplifying the capacity of housing corporations to carry out non-DAEB activities? It is good to see whether the relaxation of the market test is sufficient. Will there be enough opportunities for housing corporations to make a real blow in the middle-priced task in municipalities where there is less talk of housing constructions? Or, I say to Mr Smeulders too, we should dare to let go of the market test completely. Mr. Chairman. This bill isn't on its own. We speak these months...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u81	I see that's evoking something. I shall give the floor immediately to Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'm going back to what you said earlier. Mrs Dik-Faber's question was whether housing companies have enough opportunities to realize the middle rent. That seems important to me on the one hand, but on the other hand, I thought that it is most important that middle rents with reasonable long-term rents, so without ridiculous rent increases, be realized. To what extent does Mrs Dik-Faber think it is very important that this is done by a housing corporation as a market party that might want to take on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u83	The goal is that there are enough middle rentals available. At the moment, I see that the market is not picking up enough everywhere. That is why the simplification of the market test is certainly a very good step. But I wonder if we can take this one step further. Can we not completely abolish the market test? That doesn't mean that all middle rental homes will be built by housing corporations from now on, but you will create a level playing field between market players and housing corporations. The party that is best able to realize the middle rental homes will do so. I see housing corporations are still in a disadvantaged position, and I just want to give them more space to tackle their housing task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u84	So where do you deduce that housing corporations are placed at a disadvantage by a simplified market test, the proposal before you? Because the idea behind it is that there is a test of whether there is a level playing field. That is the aim, so abolishing it should have no or an opposite effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u85	The market test is an existing instrument. In any case, it is perceived as a hoop that housing corporations must be able to jump through if they want to get started with middle rent. I'm asking today if we can't all see if that hoop isn't an unnecessary obstacle. Can't we get rid of it? Doesn't that ultimately lead to faster and easier middle rentals being realized? That's the question I'm asking today. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mrs Dik-Faber, from the Christian Union, talks about land use. As far as I understand it, the market test goes a little further than anywhere else, because it's just hard to build on debt securities. I hope that the Minister can confirm this, because Mrs Dik-Faber agrees and I endorse it. We need to take extra steps in the run-off, because it's just tricky. How does Mrs Dik-Faber look at Mr Ronnes's and me's amendment to abolish the rent charge for middle-rent housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u87	That is undoubtedly a very interesting amendment. I have seen it come in, but I have not yet been able to study the substance of this amendment. That is why I would like to come back to that at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u88	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u89	This bill isn't on its own. We are talking these months about many proposals and measures to curb the crisis in the housing market and also to give the necessary impetus to the middle-priced rental sector. But it is also good to keep in mind that all these paper measures will in practice lead to more affordable housing for middle incomes. How does the Minister intend to monitor this? Is monitoring also going to look more broadly than just this law, but also, for example, at the proposals that will still be on the table as part of the review of the Housing Act and which we will discuss with each other? Of course, not only should measures be implemented by the Empire, but also by municipalities and other platforms, as demonstrated by the recommendations of the Co-operation Table mid-rental. For example, does the encouragement to develop municipal housing visions and cooperation tables entirely lie with municipalities or does the Minister also encourage this? The same question also applies, for example, to recommendations to corporations and market players to facilitate the transition to middle-rent housing for residents of social housing. In what way does the Minister encourage these parties to make real progress on this? Mr. Chairman. A recommendation which I would like to highlight in particular is that of rent protection. This recommendation aims to ensure that landlords include in their rental contracts that the rental commission can provide advice in case of rental and service disputes and that they voluntarily commit to this in advance. My group is enthusiastic about this recommendation, but has serious doubts as to whether it is actually being taken up by the landlords. Does the Minister know if this is happening yet? What role can she play to encourage landlords to really pick up this glove and thus align the playing field between tenant and landlord? Mr. Chairman. In addition, there may also be a rental team that is an important link in strengthening the position of tenants on this playing field. I know the stories that show that rental teams in large cities play a crucial role in conflicts between tenants and landlords, for example when it comes to over-renting. But not every city has such a rental team and not everyone knows how to find these rental teams. Does the Minister share the added value of these rental teams? Does it see the possibility of encouraging, in particular, urban areas to set up these rental teams, whether or not in cooperation with other municipalities? Mr President, these were my questions when dealing with this legislative proposal in the first term. I look forward to the Minister's reply. But there's another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u90	Yeah, I can see that, too. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u91	It's a very fair point, these rental teams. That is, of course, about the protected social housing. In my term, I have drawn attention to all those families, all those start-ups who rent in the free sector and can get those huge rent increases. That's okay, so a rental team can't do anything about that either. Does Mrs Dik-Faber have a positive attitude towards proposals to give these tenants some protection, which is really absent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u92	As far as I know, but it may not be true, these rental teams can also advise outside the social rental area. If it isn't, I'd be happy to look into it. It seems to me that these rental teams can play an important role in this, but perhaps I am mistaken. Then I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u93	Yes, they may be able to advise, but the problem for my group lies mainly with the fact that you are totally outlawed as a tenant in the free sector. The rents can simply be increased indefinitely. That's a real problem when you sign a lease. You can also imagine: if you agree €800 or €900 rent, it can be €200 more the following year and more the following year. I'd like to do something about that. I have tabled amendments to this effect and I wonder whether the Christian Union, which quite rightly says 'we must not leave it all to the market; the government must take control again', also in this area, wants to give tenants more protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u94	I'm just gonna answer this equestrian yes. I really think we should take steps together here. The question is, how are we going to do that? Give me a moment and an opportunity to see how we can better protect tenants. There is a legislative proposal on the table today about, among other things, a simplification of the market test, so that we will achieve more middle-rent. That's important. We've got to get that middle rent. Next, I think it is important that rental prices do not continue to rise, because then too much of the income goes on rent. I see the problem and I think we should do something about it. I do not have the answer at the moment, but a full 'yes'; I would like to look at this together with Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u95	I'd be happy to cooperate, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr. Koerhuis. It's quite an interruption on Mrs. Dik-Faber, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u97	Yeah, yeah. We all want to do something about that high rent. The question is how. I can tell Mrs Dik-Faber that she says yes in full, but I hope she does not say yes in full on the course of the Labour Party to ask against the rocks for the sustainability of middle-rent housing and at the same time say 'the rents should not rise'. Because that doesn't work, of course, or did I misunderstand Mrs Dik-Faber there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u98	It is not really about making homes more sustainable today, but let me say this about it. I come to areas where there is a need for people to set the stove high because there is only glass and obsolete equipment. People were trekking out of their homes. I want housing corporations to have the opportunity to invest in those homes. Eventually, that can be non-commodity. I see Mr Koerhuis shaking his head. It's like he's taking a hetze against making homes more sustainable. I do not agree with that, because I think that an investment in sustainability will ultimately bring more comfort. The projects that I have visited, including in the municipality of Soest, show that it can simply be residentially neutral due to the organisational power of housing corporations. This is ultimately an investment in the future that pays back in climate gains and in more comfort for people. So let's go do that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u99	In fact, I see the same diving movement with Mrs Dik-Faber as with Mr Nijboer. Both talk about housing corporations that need to be sustainable. We know that. The VVD wholeheartedly supports this; this must be the starting engine for making the housing market more sustainable. But we are talking today about middle-rental housing and the prices of middle-rental housing going up. I see this happening, especially in cities with left-wing lectures, also where the Christian Union sits, where the cliffs of middle-rental houses need to be preserved. Then I find it very strange that the two parties here today who are arguing that rental prices should not increase too much should, on the other hand, want to make it more sustainable. That cannot be the intention, I ask Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u100	Also the middle-rental houses will have to be preserved; we will not escape that. For example, you can't take a neighborhood off the gas and then skip the middle-rent segment. I can't. We're gonna have to take those apartments with us. I believe that we have agreed a climate agreement with each other. That climate agreement includes measures, looking at the middle rental segment. The climate agreement will be discussed here in the Chamber at some point. Let us then look together to see whether the measures taken are designed so that the houses are preserved but that the bill does not go one-on-one to the tenant. I would like to have that debate with Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What's middle rent anyway? And: is middle rent what this country needs in the current housing crisis? The cabinet sees more middle rent as a holy grail, but the term "middle hire" is misleading, because middle hire amounts to expensive free sector rental. A rental price of €800 or €1,000 is not affordable for many people and therefore no solution. Take Jamal, for example. That's a pseudonym. He is the father of two young children and has been renting a free sector house for ten years. Why? He felt heavy about living crookedly and thought: I choose the free sector. What happened? The rent rose from €700 to €1,000 in ten years time. For Jamal there is no safety net, no rental fee, no protection of the rental price, and the rent can even amount to up to €1,300. Jamal can't afford this. He's been looking for help from the housing corporation and the municipality, but no one can do anything. Jamal has written to me about these dairy practices in the free sector. I would like a response from the Minister. He writes: "No one can explain to me why the government allows someone who rents the same type of house on the same street with the same income to pay about €250 per month in rent less than people in the free sector, just because he enjoys legal protection in the form of a maximum rental limit because he happens to be the lucky person who has acquired a social housing in the past." There's something wrong here at the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u103	That's how we know the SP. She's making a fool of people. It's not like that 250 euros isn't being paid. The €250 that a social tenant pays less is paid by the rest of the Netherlands, by the hardworking Dutchman. But I understand the SP doesn't stand up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u104	Oh, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Koerhuis, at the end of this cabinet period four months of rent go directly to the state treasury. The previous cabinet said: people, we are in a crisis; we are asking for a little extra money from the housing corporations because we were in a crisis. And what is this cabinet doing now that the crisis is over and things are getting better? It says: social tenants are going to pay more. More rental tax and more ATAD. You impose a tax on social tenants intended for tax avoidance multinationals. And then you act like the social tenants are being subsidised. That's not true. And it doesn't help anyone. There's a shortage of 80,000 social rentals. People are on the waiting list for eight years and sometimes longer. There will be no solution because your cabinet will not intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u105	That's just not true! A social tenant who pays €250 less rent than a middle tenant is simply subsidised. It's just not true what Mrs. Beckerman from the SP says. That 250 euros is simply subsidised. Now Mrs Beckerman steps into the frame of corporations. I don't call the SP the party of corporations for nothing these days. She acts like that social tenant is making a net contribution. No! Unlike the middle tenant, he gets €250 net subsidy per month. Then be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u106	I've already answered this. Mr President, I am going back to middle-rent, because I would like to answer that. The middle rent is very expensive. Is that because we subsidise other people? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's because you leave everything to the market, which makes prices rise sky high. If you don't want to hear it from the SP, I'd still listen to your coalition parties. Mrs Dik-Faber has just said: I want to find a solution to this problem, because it makes no sense; we can continue to build middle-rent homes, but people cannot afford them. People see half their monthly income disappear from rent. We have put in Article 22 (2) of the Constitution that the government must provide a good home for everyone. You won't. You leave it to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u107	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u108	I agree with Jamal. And that is why I have made proposals before, for example not to impose an additional rent increase on middle-income people without there being affordable alternatives. The minister didn't want that. But the question is: what does the Minister want, what solutions does she have that will help people like Jamal? Because what do the people who are now on a waiting list or the thousands of people who live in overpriced houses compared to their income have to do with expensive rental houses? Jamal's not the only one. Let me take a look at Mr Koerhuis. According to the Planning Office for the Environment, 30% of middle-income people cannot afford a middle-rent. 30%! And another 30% can not pay more than €900. But there is often no alternative in the purchasing sector either, as around 50% of the group of middle income can finance up to €193,000. There are far too few of them. Mr. Chairman. According to the cabinet and the coalition parties, too many people with high incomes live in the social sector, the so-called skews. But 51% of those so-called middle-income skews cannot afford the market rent of their current home. Renters in the free sector have no rent protection, are at the whims of the market and can only go to the rental committee in the first six months. That's crooked. That's unfair. Does the Minister agree with me? Is the Minister prepared to grant tenants in the free sector the same rights as tenants in the social sector? Mr. Chairman. There's a huge shortage of affordable social housing. The deficit has risen to 80,000, according to the Federation Reception this weekend. Can the Minister confirm that figure? And does more middle rent offer a solution for this? I'm afraid not. In fact, half of the rental contracts in the free sector already belong in the regulated rental sector. Then what is to be done? I got five points. Firstly, less market, more human. Pride housing, with fair prices and good quality. Housing associations owned by tenants. Living and safe neighborhoods, with fine houses, without mold. No one-sided neighborhoods where investors and house milkers pick people for their last pennies in drafty homes. Middle rental should not be at the expense of social rent. Can the Minister confirm this? Two, give tenants more control. If a corporation wants to sell rental houses, tenants and the municipality should be able to give their views. As far as SP is concerned, this should also apply to the sale of middle-rent or liberalised dwellings. I am thinking of a motion on this point. The third point is to give housing corporations more space to build. The additional tax on social rents should be removed so that more investment is possible. Corporates can then build more affordable rental houses, including for middle income. My fourth point is that the income limit for social rent must be increased. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. The current low-income threshold has been a political choice. It is not fair to say that Europe must, because that is not true. That is clear from a court ruling. The income limit can and must be raised so that division can be combated, neighborhoods mixed and tenants have equal rights, regardless of their income. The fifth point is that the liberalization limit must also be increased. That is my second amendment. After being frozen for three years by the Rutte II cabinet, the liberalisation limit has been raised to €720 again this year. But that's not enough. Extend the liberalisation limit to a minimum of €1,000, so that the tenant is protected and not the market. Mr. Chairman. People with an average income fall between shore and ship, because they earn too much for an affordable rental house and have too little for a merchant house, because of the choices of this cabinet. More middle rental offers no solution here, but a problem. The cabinet must choose for people and not for the market. Think of Jamal and opt for housing instead of investors and cottage milkers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr President. The Midterm Rental Act. The measures contained in this law are, at first sight, fine in themselves. But let's face it, it's not a big deal. The legislative proposal consists of two measures: the law is clarified and procedures, the market test, are simplified. Probably not many people are opposed to that, but once again, it's really not very much. The report "Building together in middle hire" of the Cooperation Table was already presented a year ago. The question is: what actually happened in the meantime? All right, the bill; measure one. The Housing Act now states that municipalities can and can combat unbalanced and unfair effects of scarcity of cheap housing. And through the Housing Act, municipalities can interfere in the allocation of housing. They may designate categories of persons seeking accommodation who are eligible for certain housing. Although according to the law municipalities themselves can determine these categories, the minister writes, municipalities interpret "cheap housing" mainly as "social housing." That is why the word "cheap" is now deleted, so that it becomes clear that municipalities can also interfere with middle-rental housing. It is therefore purely a clarification of the law; no more and no less. And as the Minister writes in the explanatory statement: this change is a clarification around middle rental, but does not broaden its scope. What does the Minister intend to achieve in practice? Municipalities that don't interpret the law properly: is that because of the law or the municipalities? Couldn't someone have just informed the congregations? Someone could have made a call to the local board: boys, pay attention, the Housing Act can also use you to realize middle rent, so do so. Good luck! Is there really a need for a whole change of law? The housing market isn't going well. There's far too little build-up. Municipalities can also count on this. Municipalities that are difficult or too slow to issue permits. Municipalities that only want to build urbanly and not outside, with the result more expensive and often smaller homes, with the whole procedure also taking longer. How is this change of law, which is nothing but a clarification of the law, going to get opposing municipalities to work? And if unwillingly the problem is, what is this bill going to change? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then measure two: procedures are simplified. That all sounds nice and nice you know who's up against it right now, but I still have a few questions. The approval procedure to be followed by corporations for, for example, the realisation of middle-rent housing is simplified. Central rental, as it is called very ugly, is a non-DAEB activity. It is not a service of general economic interest, such as social housing. That is why we need approval. Can we conclude that this actually makes the creation of middle rental, a non-DAEB activity, an SGEI activity? After all, it concerns investments in housing that are wanted locally. There is therefore a certain economic importance. How are SGEIs and non-DAEBs kept separate? Is the Minister still able to respond to this? Mr. Chairman. Then the rents. Much has already been said about this in this debate. The PVV has often said that middle rentals are needed about the causes of this I will come to speak later, but then it is important that middle rental prices remain really middle rental prices. Of homes in the free sector, rents, especially at this time, can just go up hugely, so into the expensive segment. How does it work in practice, when housing corporations start to create and manage middle-segment housing? Are they really going to ensure that these middle-rent prices remain middle-rent prices? And how does that happen? Can the Minister tell us more about that? Do they then use the housing valuation system that is extended for these homes? How's that going in practice? I'd like a response. If the middle rental homes to be realized will be managed by corporations, what about status holders? It could be that these houses, on behalf of the municipality or whatever, are also allocated to status holders, just as social housing has been for many years. We know that middle-rental houses are usually... but that does not necessarily have to be.... slightly larger than social housing. Already a kind of exchange of status-holder families is taking place between provinces. In Limburg, for example, large families are housed with up to eight, ten or twelve children. In return, smaller families go to Utrecht or Noord-Holland. How is the Minister going to ensure that no middle-rent housing is allocated to status holders? The Minister himself acknowledges that more and more house seekers today rely on a middle-rental residence because they fall between shore and ship. They earn too much for social housing and too little to buy a house. The Minister also acknowledges that this is due to stricter mortgage standards; she writes this literally. That is, of course, very easy to talk about, because for these stricter mortgage standards, this cabinet itself is responsible. Then do something about it first! The question is how many people, who are currently eligible for a middle-rental residence in terms of income, actually prefer this to a buying house. How many are there? Do they want to, or is it a matter of having to? I'm afraid it's a matter for a lot of people. The need for middle-rent has arisen because people cannot move and because the housing market is a mess and has certainly been left to their fate by this cabinet. We can also conclude that this bill is nothing but a tissue for bleeding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u111	I see that Mr Nijboer has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u112	I thought Mr Kops spoke very well about the need to keep the middle rent affordable. I have tabled two amendments to that effect. I don't know if he's had a chance to look at it yet. I actually expect support from the PVV for that, but I want to be sure. So the question is: do you support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u113	I am going to look at these amendments very carefully. You're talking about the affordability of middle rentals. Perhaps you can remember that we, as PVV, have previously tabled motions to extend the housing valuation system to, for example, €1,000, it could also be more, depending on certain regions, in order to keep those homes affordable and prevent its rents from suddenly skyrocketing, which makes it no longer a middle rent but we are talking about the expensive segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u114	That sounds like it is in line with those amendments, so I find that reassuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u115	Okay. That's what brought you to the end of your speech, Mr. Kops?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u116	Yes, I was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you very much. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Everyone deserves a nice home, a suitable and affordable home. And that is why it is important that we talk today about an important group in the housing market, the middle segment. These people earn too much for social rent but cannot or do not want to buy a house yet, but not for every agent, teacher, nurse or starter there is now a suitable home to be found. According to D66 it is an urgent problem, because people looking for a property with a rent between €720 and €1,000 are in trouble. According to the Minister, estimates are already based on a deficit of between 60,000 and perhaps even 200,000 homes. It is good to see that with these proposals the Minister encourages all parties to offer more middle-rent housing. Mr President, I will address four issues today: clarification of the regulations for municipalities, the role of corporations in the middle hire, simplification of the market test and the requirement for returns and restructuring. First of all, the clarification of the regulatory capacity of municipalities to increase the middle rental segment. I am pleased to see the Minister taking up Mr Van Gijzel's advice and clarifying the law. This will make it easier for municipalities to contribute to reducing the scarcity in the middle segment. It doesn't have to be about cheap homes anymore, it has to be about homes that are scarce. In addition to this scarcity, there must also be disproportionate and unbalanced effects. Can the Minister comment on what is meant by disproportionate and unbalanced effects? It seems undesirable to me that, if there is a shortage, municipalities become reluctant to increase the offer of middle rent because there is uncertainty about these criteria. To what extent does the Minister estimate that this could be the case? Mr. Chairman. In addition, it is good to see that the Minister is taking steps to strengthen the role that corporations can play in the middle segment by simplifying the rules and speeding up procedures. This makes investing in middle rental, non-DAEB as we call it, much easier by corporations. Corporates can play an important role in reducing deficits in middle housing in these investments in the non-DAEB segment. The accelerated procedure for non-DAE work is also supported by the D66 Group. In practice, delaying steps such as a notification by the municipality of a municipality to the Authority housing corporations or steps previously double in the procedure are being removed, and we naturally welcome that. In my group's view, the simplification of the market test proposed by the Minister further contributes to the important role already mentioned for housing corporations in the middle segment. Unnecessary thresholds for housing corporations are removed. Housing corporations that want to pick up the glove where the market that doesn't pick up can do that and take care of those much-needed middle rentals. However, the VNG notes, for example, that the hand-out for municipalities can contribute to the better application of that market test. Is the Minister prepared to look at such a handout? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the requirement for efficiency at project level, but I see an interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u119	We just had an interrupting debate. When I spoke, Mrs Van Eijs said that in some cities this price category is still being built between €750 and €1,000, including by market players. I've just been watching Funda. That is an advantage of if the debate takes a little longer. If you see what, for example, in Amsterdam, where we run together as D66 and GroenLinks, are asked for prizes at Funda... Well, just 35 m for €1,600, and I can give you some other examples. Do you really have confidence that market participants in these big cities will build homes at a somewhat affordable price, which are also available to families? Because I think that in the end it may be very difficult to get them into that price category, but that the houses will then be made so small by market players that neither of us consider that desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u120	In my opinion, we agree that €1,600 for less than 40 m is certainly not a middle rent, and certainly not for families. So hopefully that's not what we're talking about when we're talking about middle-rent. And then the question of whether I have faith in it. To put it bluntly, that doesn't really matter. The point is, those middle-rentals are gonna have to get there. And I'm like, if a market party wants to do that, it should be possible. Maybe they're not there, and then the housing corporation should be able to step in. So to put it bluntly: I don't really care who does it, but it just needs to happen and just be built. But I do think that if a market party wants and can do that, it should have a chance. That's the balance I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u121	I think Mrs Van Eijs and I are in complete agreement on this. But if we even completely abolish the market test, then market players can still get the chance. Because if a market party then goes to the municipality and just has a better plan than a corporation, then the municipality can just decide that the market party can build it? And the reason I insist on abolishing the market test is the following. A lot of parties here in the Chamber, including coalition parties, say that we need to speed up construction. In the run-up to this debate, we have undoubtedly also discussed you with housing corporations or representatives of them. They clearly indicate that this market test is a super retardant instrument, including the changes proposed by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u122	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u123	My question to Mrs Van Eijs is: is it not better to abolish this market test altogether?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u124	I am open to any proposal on simplifying procedures as long as housing companies and market players are given a fair chance. And I really do have questions about that. Because we have also seen in the past that housing corporations and municipalities can find each other very easily. The Council of State also points that out in its criticism. That is why I think it is important that there really is a level playing field, a fair playing field, including for those market players, so that they can find their way. I would also like to comment on that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u125	But when I hear Mrs Van Eijs like that, I think: this is not really a fear that is present at the moment? There's just a really big shortage of middle rentals. There's market for more than the supply at the moment. What would be wrong with, for example, the proposal I just made in my first term, namely those corporations temporarily in a particular segment, from let's say to give €700 to €1,000, that exemption and give them some space to create those homes that are needed in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u126	I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that. I think it is more important to continue to provide access to these market players. This also applies to what I just said: the Council of State also indicates that these parties are simply less used to each other and more difficult to find each other. I agree with Mr Ronnes when he says that there is more than enough demand for both market players and housing corporations to build middle-rent, but I also want to make sure that those market players get a fair chance. And I'm looking for that balance. Perhaps this can be done with the proposal as Mr Ronnes does, but I am glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mrs Van Eijs talks about this fear that corporations are closer to these municipalities than project developers or private investors. Well, I'm fairly well-known in the Netherlands administration and in the way things are going, and I also know that the private market knows how to find the municipal authorities when they advance on projects. I think there are municipalities that may be in contact with project developers more often than with housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u128	I am pleased to hear that Mr Ronnes speaks with so many different parties and that fortunately it is not always the case that municipalities only look at the housing corporations, but we also see that in some places a Co-operation table was needed for middle rent to get those parties together. That was a very nice initiative, I thought, precisely because all the parties were sitting together, both the housing corporations and the private investors as well as the municipalities, to talk about the question: how can we achieve as much middle rent as possible? I think all these parties will be needed, but I want to keep a balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u129	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was gonna ask about the return requirement. Because this is reduced to 0% in the legislative amendment at project level. It is good that we have also looked at removing barriers for corporations to invest in the middle segment, but we do have a question about the level playing field: is this not done on a project basis? If corporations compete right from the start and do not have a return requirement, doesn't there risk that market participants will not be able to compete on a project basis? The important role of market players also forces me to ask whether we are sufficiently aware of the need for a proper balance. Does the Minister share the view that this balance should be there? How is it ensured that market participants do not drop out because of this change in return on a project basis? In the context of the balance sheet, I am also pleased that the Minister is facilitating a national platform that will make it easier for the parties to find each other. Finally, Mr President, I would like to comment on restructuring. D66's desire is to work towards mixed neighborhoods. It is important for the quality of life that different groups of people can live side by side. Restructuring, for example, allows neighbourhoods with almost only social housing to become much more mixed. This gives a neighbourhood much more capacity, people can help each other and people who want to stay in the neighbourhood can also move within the neighbourhood if they are looking for a property for sale or a senior residence for example. It is a good thing that the Minister has already included restructuring on his own grounds as an exception in the authorised institutions housing, but the regulations on this remain complex, so that municipalities and corporations may refrain from these important non-DAEB investments. The question to the Minister is therefore: how does the proposed legislative amendment contribute to mixed districts? What obstacles could it possibly remove in this area? How does it see the role of the Housing Authority in this? We are getting signals that it may operate too strictly in, for example, mixed complexes, in the case of sustainability measures by corporations and in the case of restructuring, in short, in projects that you logically think have a role to play in the housing corporation. To what extent does the Minister recognize this image? What can she do in this? Mr. Chairman. Despite the questions that my group has, this bill offers opportunities especially for people looking for a middle-rent house. A chance to bring a beautiful and mixed neighborhood with a suitable home for everyone. An opportunity for municipalities and corporations to clarify and facilitate their role for the middle segment. A chance to build those much-needed middle rentals in larger numbers and faster than before. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. Finally, I see an interruption by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u132	I always draw attention to those sitting tenants in the free sector who can get huge rent increases at their picks. That concern is widely shared in the Chamber. So I ask Mrs Van Eijs whether she also sees that people are really stuck in those houses and whether she also thinks that we should do something about it because it is not possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u133	I fully agree with Mr Nijboer. That is why we submitted the emergency button motion a long time ago. I must say that I have had time to read Mr Nijboer's amendment. It seems a bit like what I had in mind, because it was about the emergency button, so I am very curious how the Minister will respond to that amendment. I assume she's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u134	Very good. I am also in favour of the emergency button 'We do not have a difference of opinion on 'One' but it only looks at new cases. And that's the problem, because all the tenants who are in those houses now have that problem. Unless Mrs. Van Eijs expands the explanation of the emergency button. That would suit me very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u135	My intention is always to counter exorbitant rent increases, including in the sitting stock. I think it says that literally. I cannot reproduce the text of the motion entirely anymore, because it has been back a while. It seems to me that it is intended for the incumbent tenants, because for new tenants we can make arrangements with municipalities and all agreements can be concluded with the private sector, but just for the incumbent tenants we now have no resources. So that's what the emergency button was meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-27-tweedekamer-3.u137	I shall suspend the sitting until 12.45 p.m. Then we also have time for a lunch break. After the suspension, we will begin with a brief arrangement of work and then this debate will continue.
