ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the report by the Prime Minister on the postponement of the presentation of the climate agreement. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs in Box K and give Mr Klaver the floor on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr President, thank you. Whose public information is provided by planning agencies? As far as I am concerned, that is the question that is at the heart of today's debate. Whose information is it? Good journalistic research by Nieuwsuur has shown that the Prime Minister has acted as a driving force when it had to be published. The Prime Minister has indicated at what time the calculations of the Planning Bureau for the Environment could best be shared with the Netherlands and with the Chamber. I think that's problematic. I would like to stress that I do not want to have this debate to indicate that the Prime Minister has made mistakes or to accuse him. I would like to use this debate to clarify how we are going to work together in the coming period. The climate file is a sensitive file. I think there will be a number of speakers tonight who say: you see, the cabinet is behind everything; you see, they are trying to fool the people. I think that's a problem. If we want to build support for climate action, there should in no way be the idea that information is being withheld. The only way to do that is to ensure that plans are immediately shared with the Chamber. I would therefore like the Prime Minister to comment on the following. The memo of EZK of 24 August states that it will look at whether the transfer is made public before or after Prinsjesdag and that it will depend on the content of this transfer. In the memo of August 31, AZ says that publication is undesirable. And that while the Ministry of Economic Affairs and other advisers finally state that it is important to proceed to publication before Princess Day to prevent leaks, in order to avoid thinking that things are being withheld, which I also warned you about. For me, the desired outcome of this debate is that we agree that the information that is yet to come is shared directly with the Chamber, even if there is no cabinet juice. I didn't think the Prime Minister's defense was one of his best moments, I'll say. It is often the case that reports are presented that are not yet ready for cabinet juice. I call the Urgenda targets. Are they gonna be made or not? We've been waiting 20 weeks for a further appreciation of that. I am looking at the figures presented in March of this year, which is already ten weeks ago on the climate agreement. Again, we are still waiting for a cabinet response. So it's possible. I really want the Prime Minister's promise that in future he will also send all the credit transfers that come to the Chamber as soon as they are available. Because, of course, there are quite a few pots on the fire, as the Prime Minister himself calls it. I would really like to know which calculations are already complete and can therefore be shared with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister would like to comment on the debate I had with him during the General Political Reviews. I asked him about the CO tax and how it could contribute to achieving the climate targets. We have talked about how hard the agreements in the climate agreement are. That is what he literally said in the debate: I cannot say anything about it now, we are still looking at it, we have to wait for the PBL bill. But it was ready. It would have been right to say: I haven't been able to deal with that, I haven't been able to respond yet, I don't know yet. It was said to us here: it is not ready yet. That'll put the Chamber on the line. Because the Prime Minister knows exactly what the Chamber would have said. The moment he said "it's there," we'd have asked for it. He could not have refused and then it should have come to the Chamber. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I hope that today the Prime Minister will make a commitment that all the information coming from the planning agencies will be shared directly with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u3	We know that GroenLinks has taken an initiative to have the PBL pass on its own accounts. I was wondering how many times Mr. Klaver is in contact with the PBL and how it goes with that flow of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u4	That's exactly what I want to tell you. We have been in contact with PBL and CPB today because they have asked us questions about the feasibility of some of our measures. We have given an answer to that in substance. I can't exactly mention the number of times, but I think there's been about six or seven contacts. Six times, I see Tom van der Lee say. So we've been in contact six times. No one in this Chamber wants more than I do, except for Tom, who wants the CPB and the PBL to come up with these accounts; please. As far as I am concerned, they may also be made directly public. I'll tell you exactly why. I believe that the information that we as MPs produce, and certainly the information that the cabinet produces, belongs to all of us. Even if we have proposed something bad, I hope that we can all learn from it and that policy will be better. So the openness of proposals and the transfers made by the Planning Bureau must help us all to achieve better legislation. It's not a competition where you can be the best party or cabinet. I want information from the PBL and the CPB to be able to make good decisions. As far as I'm concerned, that information may be made public directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u5	That's a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u7	Mr. Chairman. This country will become completely unmanageable, completely unmanageable if independent planning agencies would just publish their figures on behalf of others. We know this a little bit about Mark Rutte. It was somewhat reminiscent of "an unacceptable risk" if the Court called into question the abolition of the dividend tax. But what the hell is going on here? The Prime Minister himself said that climate policy is a delicate and sensitive subject. It is important that there is support for this. You have to deal with that carefully. This cabinet calls itself the greenest cabinet ever. But at the same time, they're very anxious to hide what that means. Because what have we seen about green measures taken by this cabinet? We in the Labour Party believe that you need to pursue realistic, sensible, fair climate policies. That it's time now, so that people are sure of a clean planet for the next generation. But what have we seen in concrete terms? The power bill's gone up. It worked. No climate gains, but you might have it in that category... For the rest: delay, delay, delay. Delaying the reaction to Urgenda. Postponed on the APB. That's what this is about. Deferral of the CO tax. Delaying the climate agreement. It's just a concept, it's not mine, said Klaas Dijkhoff. Delay, even now, of a response to that concept of climate change agreement. We saw a press conference where the Prime Minister said it was necessary for the campaign of the elections. Mr. Chairman. That is no way to lead a country and include a country in the measures that need to be taken. That's not how you do it. The Prime Minister knows that, too. My first question is in line with Jesse Klaver's questions. On 10 July, it was already agreed in the Under-Council of Ministers that the time of publication would depend on the content of the transfer. So far before the Prime Minister's decision of August 24th. How's that? How is that possible? Question two. On 28 August, four days after that decision of the Ministerial Council referred to by the Prime Minister, the Climate Council decided to publish on 13 September. That was confirmed on 30 August. Has there been such disobedience in the execution of a clear cabinet decision? How is that possible? Can the Prime Minister explain that? Three. We hear that measures are now being taken by the cabinet around the CO. Is the Prime Minister prepared to indicate what measures this is going to take? Can he guarantee that he does not see it as his task as Prime Minister to convince the planning agency that it would be undesirable to share it with the Chamber and therefore with the Dutch people, so that we know where we stand before the summer? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet, which claims to be so concerned about the support for climate action, is guilty of damaging that support by delaying, delaying, delaying, beating itself on the shoulder and raving on the chest that they are so green. But what people have seen is a higher energy bill, higher VAT and a lower profit tax for companies. The image of last week's press conference was that of a little boy who stole a cookie, was caught by Nieuwsuur (Nieuwsuur) and then didn't say sorry, or I had such a sense, but: the country becomes completely out of control if I'm not allowed to take this cookie. In a critical question from a journalist and then you really get the picture that someone has that job for too long, he says: yes, but this is the national interest, this is my job as Prime Minister. I steal cookies to prevent Parliament from being properly informed. A completely bizarre reversal. I am therefore curious whether the Prime Minister will repeat the same extremely big words in this Parliament, as is often the case with a critical question, or whether he will perhaps be able to just admit to being a cavalier. It's not the first time something like this has happened. It's not such a big deal at all. But don't be silly about it. The cover-up is worse than the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr. Chairman. We are not here to talk about the enormous inequality in our country, not to talk about why multinationals pay hardly any tax, not to talk about how we can ensure that everyone gets the care they deserve. No, we're back here talking about the PM's political trickbox. We all remember the stuff about the receipts. There was no receipt, but there turned out to be a receipt. The Prime Minister didn't know. The receipt turned out to be in the mailbox of the former Caroliene and he knows everything, so we know since the last election campaign. We remember the dividend memos. There were no memos, yet memos, no memories, yet memories. We remember the lie of VVD'er Zijlstra about his visit to Putin's datha. The Prime Minister didn't think it was necessary to inform the Chamber until it got into the paper. Now what? Now we are standing here because the Prime Minister wanted to prevent the passing on of the climate agreement from becoming part of the most important debate of the year here in Parliament, the debate on the future of our country, on the future of our society, on the wallet of people. Perhaps the Prime Minister did not want to see how large polluters would be kept out of sight? Wouldn't the Prime Minister want to know how clear it would be that the bill for climate policy is mainly for people? Does the Prime Minister understand that the much-needed support in this way is being broken rather than increased? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister did it all for us, he said last week. The House of Representatives would only get annoyed if the bills went to the Chamber without a reaction from the cabinet. How incredibly noble of him, but above all, what nonsense! If the elections are imminent, the cabinet can respond within one day. So my question is: why couldn't this have been one of the most important issues at the time for the most important debate here in Parliament? Why did the Prime Minister decide that this could wait? VVD party friend Ed Nijpels was initially, as we could read, not at all so much to say about the Prime Minister's wish to postpone the publication. Until 5 September late in the evening, he maintained his intention to publish the figures on 13 September. Then why does Nijpels finally agree to move the date of publication? Has the Prime Minister, or perhaps one of his staff, had contact with Mr Nijpels between 5 and 6 September, which later sent the PBL figures to Parliament? And what did he say? How did he turn the president of the climate council 180 degrees? Mr. Chairman. We are now beginning to know about this Prime Minister: when the arguments are up, the superb kick comes. You know: the irresponsible risk taken with our economy if the dividend tax were not abolished. And we do see the chaos all over the country today. On Wednesday the Prime Minister did it again: our country becomes unmanageable if the bill had been sent before Princess Day. Unmanageable? Because wire transfers that were finished would be sent to the Chamber? Over and over again, this Prime Minister shows that the truth is not at the forefront, but his self-interest. How credible does the Prime Minister himself think this is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u11	Madam President. The PVV is tired of the manipulating and marchanding of this cabinet and the VVD executives in particular. And it won't stop. Whether it is the receipts of Teven or Van der Steur, whether it is the use of the wrong figures on the energy bill by Mr Wiebes, whether it is the forgotten criminal asylum figures of Mr Harbers, whether it is the general consideration of the climate figures: it is all wrong. The fact is that the Chamber, through this cabinet and this Prime Minister, received the transfer, the information about the transfer of the planning offices, not for last year's General Political Discussion, but afterwards. Mr Nijpels and no one else was the client and he was planning to publish the documents on 13 September, and thus for the General Political Reviews. He said that there was agreement on this at the highest level and he did not want to postpone it, as we have seen. However, he was prevented from doing so by this cabinet for one reason, and that is that the Prime Minister did not want to do so. The Chamber has therefore not received any important information for the General Reviews. The Chamber did not obtain this information on this important subject of the climate agreement for the General Reviews. The Prime Minister has ensured that we have not received this information and it is totally irrelevant to my group what would have been agreed on or decided on earlier in the cabinet. It is also totally irrelevant what the content of that transfer is, whether it was easy or disappointing. And it also doesn't matter whether or not there was a cabinet juice appreciation. The only thing that matters is that we have not received a piece here, which could be very politically relevant, on a very important subject for the General Political Reviews, while the client wanted to make it public. On climate terror, on the cost of climate terror: it was kept under the hat and not published, because the Prime Minister did not want it. Mr. Chairman. We're sick and tired of being manipulated by the VVD side. We don't think this is possible. And even if I have to table a motion of censure here 40 times in order to condemn it, I will not fail to do so and, unfortunately, do so with a great deal of conviction. So I say to the Prime Minister: if he can't miraculously prove the opposite of what we're reading now, then there's only one solution for you, and that's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u12	Mr. Wilders, Mrs. Yesilgöz wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u13	I would like to know from Mr Wilders whether Princess Day falls on the same day every year. Is the third Tuesday of September the same every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u14	What do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u15	I'm going to help Mr. Wilders. Yeah, that's right. On 10 July, the press conference of the chairman of the Climate Change Council, Ed Nijpels, outlined exactly how this whole planning would go. The chairman said that all these tables have been put to work, these are their first proposals and I am now sending them to the planning offices. The planning agencies will then look at it and sometime in September the planning agencies will send their analyses to the cabinet. Then the cabinet comes with an appreciation, with an opinion on it, which goes to the Chamber and then we can talk about it. Why have I not heard Mr Wilders or the PVV 10 July, 11 July and all summer? Why didn't they say: wait a minute, there's something else in September, Prinsjesdag. We want to deal with this for Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u16	I'm not the client or the owner of those pieces. The client, whatever you think of the man, has Mr Nijpels and Mr Nijpels, according to all those black-painted pieces, indicated that he wanted to do it on 13 September. At that time, he did indeed send an e-mail to Mrs Marijnissen on 5 or 6 September in the evening on high feet. In that he said: I will not let myself be ringed; that is agreed to the highest level and I am going to do so on the 13th of September. I believe it was ten to twelve on that fifth September and the next day it was around noon. Of course, that was done by this Prime Minister. And we know that, Madam President. I have an e-mail for me from the department of June 26th. We don't know that until now! June 26th of last year, four quarters of a year, in which an official writes that if the planning is true, that is a mismatch, "because we don't want the PBL to publish earlier, and certainly not for Princess Day." Certainly not for Prince's Day! It's never been the intention to do that, and we never knew. We were fooled by this cabinet. That deserves only one punishment, and that's a vote of no confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u17	Yeah, okay. So the PVV didn't say anything about it all summer July 10th, July 11th. The PVV didn't say, just as the previous speakers did: boy, I don't like the sound of this, I want to make these payments at all costs for Prinsjesdag. So the PVV, like the SP, like GroenLinks and like the PvdA, like the rest of the Chamber, heard 10 July: somewhere in September it comes with an appreciation to the Chamber and then we can debate it well. The debate finally took place in October. But I haven't heard a word from the PVV about this either. So I didn't hear it July 10th, July 11th, July 12th, not all summer, not during the debate... 11 months later, suddenly there's a problem. With retroactive effect, the PVV suddenly feels that things should have been different and that we should not have waited for an appreciation of the cabinet, so that we knew very well what the debate was about. Can Mr. Wilders explain why eleven months ago, ten months ago, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four... wasn't a problem, and now suddenly it is? Because everything Mr Wilders just said, we already knew 10 July, because that was already happening to us. We already knew about the trial, and it went exactly as we were told.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u18	No, the VVD lady is completely missing my point. My point is that it is not about the content of those reports. My point is this. At the time when the client of those credit transfers, Mr Nijpels, decides that the cabinet does not, that does not decide the Council of Ministers, that decides only Mr Nijpels; he has given the order for that calculation "the calculations are there, and I want them to be published on 13 September," it is not appropriate to intervene at that time. We've seen that happen. Here, an email from the Ministry of AZ to the M-staff: it is undesirable to speak about this before the APB. On the same day, an e-mail from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to Mr Nijpels, stating: we are not going to do that. We're not gonna do it. There's no green light for publication. Who does the Prime Minister think he is? Green light for publication! They're not about it at all. It wasn't a good time for them. They, your party, wanted to sweep the cost of that climate terror under the carpet. That is what happened, and it should not be rewarded but punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u19	One more, Mr. Chairman. My question is really not that complicated. 10 July is part of a public press conference: somewhere in September, the cabinet can give an appreciation. If it's all such a disgrace, why didn't the PVV, Mr Wilders, say: I don't accept that; I want that data sooner? 'Cause that's possible, isn't it? Mr Wilders could have just said that. I just want to know: why wasn't that a problem for the PVV or for the three other parties we just heard, and is it suddenly a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u20	My answer isn't that complicated to hear either. That's not the point. We're not in the press. We were not invited informally or informally by Mr Nijpels for the announcement that a press conference would be held in September. As a representative of the people, we must... You may have forgotten that. You're covering up your VVD too much, instead of controlling this Prime Minister. You can't do that anymore! You can't control him. You're just licking his heels. That's what you do. And you're sweeping under the carpet that he managed to keep that information under wraps. 'Cause he did. 13 September, says Mr Nijpels, I would like to come up with a press conference, the documents are ready. Not the cabinet is about it, not your VVD is about it. We want to publish it. But that didn't work out for him: no debate on climate at the General Reviews! So sweep under the hat. You're all just as bad, you from that VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The colleague in the opposition has asked whether a report from the Planning Office for the Environment has been properly handled. An independent organisation such as the PBL is about its own publication dates. Of course, we already knew that, but we also read it today in the Prime Minister's letter. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister tonight what happened in August/September. Is this method a common practice? If it isn't, why did it deviate? We'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. We know that the PBL is about its own publication dates and that it can also have a political character. This proved to be the case when the draft climate agreement was published, a week before the state elections. Strikingly enough, I thought, they got there even faster because of questions from the opposition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u23	Thank you. I don't go through that much. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u24	Mr. Chairman. I think I am going to finish my speaking time. Do we remember him? Rasti Rostelli. For those of you who have no memory of him, check a few videos on YouTube. Rasti Rostelli was a well-known Dutchman in the eighties and nineties. He was a well-known hypnotist, who repeatedly imposed his will on his audience. Over and over again with the same tricks and distractions. And everyone fell for it over and over again. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is the Rasti Rostelli of this political generation, who is constantly throwing the majority of the Chamber, a number of journalists and a group of voters in the eye. And the handsome thing is, he gets away with it. And he's gonna get away with it tonight, too. More and more we see the same tricks of the Prime Minister. "I have no active memory of this." "I feel it down to the bottom of my fibers." "I am totally, totál but also totál against". The Prime Minister is truly a great master, who masters rhetorical tricks to divert attention to the content. He found the bad news of the credit transfers undesirable for Princess Day, because he wanted to make Princess Day and the General Political Reviews a good news show. Unfortunately, party political interests outweighed the importance of informing Parliament correctly and fully. Mr. Chairman. DENK's group believes that bank transfers should not become a game of party political interests. Does the Prime Minister share this view? Is the Prime Minister the Prime Minister of all the Dutch or, in particular, the Prime Minister of the VVD? The DENK Group would also like clarification on what exactly happened. Was the scheduled date September 28th or September 13th? Mr Nijpels, the VVD's climate pope, claims that there was a high-level agreement on 13 September. I ask the Prime Minister: how high was that level? The Prime Minister claims that 28 September was the agreed date of publication. This would even be a decision of the Council of Ministers. It can't be both true. Which of these two VVDs is telling the truth? In any case, the question is whether it is true that a date of presentation in the Council of Ministers is set as an official decision. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister: has a real decision been taken on this in the Council of Ministers or has it been mentioned in passing in the Council of Ministers? What exactly does the Prime Minister mean by the word "validated" that he used in last Monday's letter of office? Is the Chamber once again being sprinkled in the eyes in Rasti Rosellian fashion? Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group believes that the Prime Minister should also stop his hysterical exaggerations. Overdoing often passes seamlessly into deception, and that often turns seamlessly into lying. It's all three degrees of the same thing, which is to abuse the truth. We've heard the Prime Minister's most hysterical stories about dividend taxation before. If it were not abolished, Shell, Unilever, Philips and AkzoNobel would disappear from the Netherlands. In fact, 40% of gross domestic product would disappear from the Netherlands and hundreds of thousands of jobs would be at risk. It all turned out to be an exaggeration. Or should I say "lie"? That was also true for the memos that according to Rutte did not exist, but were found to exist. Overdoing and deception are always a recurring pattern. Just a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister strongly advised against a motion on the Brexit. This motion would supposedly break the closed front of 27 EU countries. The motion was simply adopted here in the Chamber and the front just remained. The Prime Minister very often states that he cannot go into anything, because "that does not help the process" or "that does not help our cause." In retrospect, it often appears that the importance of secrecy is grossly exaggerated. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister and even ask him to stop these hysterical exaggerations. Mr. Chairman. I started with Rasti Rostelli. He was able to impress a lot of people for a long time, but was exposed because he used the same tricks on his audience. It can't be long before the Rasti Rostelli of Dutch politics is exposed as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS. Keep moving, gentlemen. Don't keep talking in box-K. Mr. Kuzu! Yeah, the Prime Minister can't do this either. He knows that, too. Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Whether or not the cabinet makes sense to claim three weeks to respond, I really don't care very much. Nor do I care whether this was a decision of the Prime Minister alone or of the entire cabinet. But what interests me is why does a Prime Minister, prior to the most important debate of the year, want to give the impression that he wants to keep something under his hat, and then on an issue that concerns people at home? Because what is this climate policy going to cost me? And can I make it? I just don't get the direction. The Prime Minister was warned that there was a chance that a postponement of publication would be seen as a cover-up. Why wasn't another direction chosen, just publish it with the announcement that the cabinet response will come later because of care? I think that could have been understood. That is why I shall be brief, because I only have one last comment. In response to the question of WODC, the Planning Office for the Environment has prepared a document to ensure its independence. In it, the Planning Bureau for the Environment literally states that independence comes under pressure, for example if there is external pressure to delay the publication of a report. And that's exactly what happened. The Prime Minister was putting a lot of pressure on him. We must do that, the cabinet must do that, and the Prime Minister must not want that in independent institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Mrs. Agnes Mulder has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u28	In my speech, I indicated that the Court also exerts pressure on an independent institution such as the PBL, in this case perhaps not to postpone publication, but precisely to speed it up. What do you think of that, then? That pressure's okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u29	I have to tell you quite frankly that I think that the person giving the order should understand that the person conducting the investigation is an independent institution. It's the one who should never put pressure on. When ordering the Chamber, the Chamber must also understand that the Institute is independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u30	But you're welcome to apply that pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u31	If she doesn't give the order herself... I would never do it. The typical of an independent institution is... That is why I was so pleased with the phrase in the letter from the Planbureau voor de Levenenvironment: don't do that, because that doesn't ensure that independence is sufficiently guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Chamber controls the cabinet. That means we need to know what the cabinet is up to or what the cabinet thinks of something. For this reason, it is customary for us as a Chamber, when an opinion is delivered by third parties, not only to receive that opinion but also to receive the opinion of the Cabinet. Otherwise it will be difficult to discuss the opinion of the cabinet, the so-called appreciation. This is exactly how it was agreed on the first plans of the draft climate agreement. The proposal for the broad lines of a climate agreement went to the planning agencies in the summer. These were to return to the cabinet in early September. The cabinet would find something of that within a normal period of time and then send it to the Chamber so that we could debate it together. That is exactly what the chairman of the Climate Change Council explained on 10 July last year, and that is how it went. Does this mean that the opinion or in this case the figures were available earlier? Yeah, it makes sense. 'Cause if you're gonna have to find something in your cabinet, you gotta know where to find something. Is that what you've been holding back information from? No, because the Chamber controls the cabinet and does not want to know for nothing what the cabinet will do with the advice received. Mr. Chairman. Could we have gotten those numbers for Princess' Day? I'm sure it's a theory. I can only tell you exactly what would have happened. Rutte could not have anticipated a cabinet response, because it still had to be made. Of course, you can't make such a cabinet reaction in 15 minutes if there is a piece of advice from the climate tables about perhaps the greatest transition of our century. So the same parties that are now screaming murder and fire would have blamed him for not wanting anything but actually not being able to say anything. And the Netherlands had looked at it and wondered what the hell we're doing. Because what part of the advice was and what part was not taken over? All legitimate questions that you can only answer, right, if you have an appreciation. It's as simple as that, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost sorry for the opposition that I can't make this much more exciting than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u34	Does the VVD colleague actually say that it is right that the Prime Minister asked to publish this after Princess Day, otherwise there might be some confusion in the parliament and in the country? Is this a justification for asking this question to the PBL?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u35	We all knew we were waiting for an appreciation. It just had to come and there's a usual time limit to come up with such an appreciation. We all knew this on July 10th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u36	That's just not true. It's almost embarrassing how a people's representative is defending the cabinet here. Just before the summer, an AO was planned on climate policy. At the request of the coalition, my colleague Tom van der Lee agreed that that AO would not continue. Do you know on what condition? You're on that committee, so I'm sure you know. The fact that I have here the e-mail of 3 July of this year would be a technical briefing on this transfer right after the summer. What I make of it is that everyone assumed, including the coalition, that would be there right after the summer. That was not the case. This was followed by a notice from the PBL that it would not come. Why didn't we all press for this to happen sooner? Because we respect the independence of the PBL. If the PBL says "we can't deliver it sooner," it will. If it turns out afterwards that the PBL did not decide to publish later, but that this came after pressure from the Prime Minister, then you should not defend the Cabinet. Then you must be on our side, on the side of your colleagues here in Parliament, because this is about the provision of information to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u37	I am not defending the cabinet at all; I am simply mentioning the facts. Mr Klaver (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. On 10 July, the President of the Climate Change Council set out exactly how the whole process would go and that, in September, we would get an appreciation from the ministers and the Prime Minister on the basis of the accounts of the Planning Offices. We knew that. So what could GroenLinks have done? He could have said 10 July, 11 July, all summer, just like Mr Wilders, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher: well, I am not okay with that, because in September Princess Day is and I just want to be able to discuss what lies there. We could talk about that. But we wanted an appreciation and Mr. Klaver also wanted an appreciation. I have seen several requests for debate from him in which he always says: I want a debate as soon as the appreciation is there. Literally. That's just a quote. So these are just the facts. That's how we all looked at it. What I find so special about tonight is that we have a debate because the Prime Minister has kept to the agreements. I don't know about GroenLinks, but at the VVD we like to keep our agreements. That's what we did here. Then the opposition says: well, that can't be true, can it? I think it's a weird debate, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u38	I'm starting to think it's a weird debate too...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u39	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u40	If you defend the Prime Minister here in this way and state: the Prime Minister keeps his word. First of all, reference is made to the agreement that the Council of Ministers would have decided when the publication of the PBL figures would have been. That's not what the Council of Ministers is about. That's a choice of the PBL itself. You can say that we have made a decision, and I am sticking to that decision. That is not the role of the Prime Minister. That is the role of the PBL. And we knew that those figures would be there after the summer. As a room, we all assumed that. Otherwise we would never have agreed to postpone a general discussion. Wouldn't we have asked for a technical briefing after the summer? We all assumed that those figures would be there. When the PBL told us that those figures would not come, we all accepted that. Do you know why? Because we respect the independence of the PBL. And why are we all now, from left to right, in the tallest tree? Because we find out that the Prime Minister said: rather after Princess Day, because I want to avoid confusion. It is not up to the Prime Minister to decide to avoid confusion. That's up to all of us. I believe that the central issue of this debate is not the Prime Minister's responsibility for the information provided by planning agencies. That information doesn't belong to the cabinet or the coalition. That information belongs to all the Dutch and the people's representatives. That's where it must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u41	Mr President, may I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u42	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u43	We were all able to read in the Prime Minister's letter which was agreed with those independent planning agencies, with the climate review that there would be an appreciation in September. That's what happened, and that's what we knew on July 10th. This is also going to be a bit of a nasty debate, because it is simply not more complicated than this. We knew about something, it worked out like this, it did, and then, eleven months later, the opposition says retroactively: nah, we don't accept that. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u44	It is really embarrassing that the VVD spokesperson does not respect the independence of the PBL. Because if the PBL wants to publish something together with the client on 13 September, it can do so, whatever the Chamber thinks of it and whatever the cabinet thinks of it. The spokesperson of the VVD must agree with me on the following. If the Prime Minister then intervenes and says 'I do not want a debate on this during the General Political Reviews', then the VVD Group must now condemn it, instead of defending it and putting a spade on top of it by risking itself the independence of the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u45	The Prime Minister didn't say, "It's not a good time." He said, "We have made a covenant, shall we keep it?" And when you read the Prime Minister's letter, you will also see that it was exactly the same, that unfortunately the government's Juice did not come out at the same time as those figures. I say "unfortunately," because I would have preferred it at the same time. But according to agreement, the numbers came out September 28th and a few days later that appreciation came out. So the planning agencies are independent. That's what happened. The Prime Minister said: we had a deal, shall we do it this way? And that's how it happened. Again, it may be confusing for some parties, but that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u46	I would like to give the tip to the VVD not to read the Prime Minister's slips, but to study the documents obtained by the WOB. Then you just see that it was under the hat of the Prime Minister because he didn't want to talk about it, like he often doesn't want to talk about climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u47	At the end of the day, we debated this until the middle of the night on 31 October. It has been discussed in detail and then again many times. It was just about the round tables and expert meetings we had. I think we are at 36 hours in total at the moment. There is a lot of talk in this Chamber about climate, and rightly so. I think it's good to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u48	I kind of like it. The VVD has a new line of defense. If there's criticism, the senders of that criticism are stupid or weird or confused. Jesse Clover is stupid. Mrs. Marijnissen is stupid. I'm stupid. Mr. Wilders is stupid. News hour, which has questions, is, of course, stupid, like all those journalists at Rutte's press conference. They're all very stupid, because everyone knew what was going on from July 10th. Then the climate pope told you that at the end of September you will receive the appreciation. That's kind of the line of defense as I understood it. So that should end with us apologizing for harassing the VVD and the Prime Minister with questions about this really nasty accusation that this is weird. In that light, I wonder if you think Mr Ed Nijpels is stupid too. He sent a steamy email late on 5 September in the evening in which he said: "There was agreement on 13 September up to the highest level. That was not just a matter of reason, but on the basis of careful consideration. That was also agreed with the Planning Agency." He was the client, wasn't he? "AZ then started to object to political arguments, namely: it has to be lifted over the APB." 'Political arguments' have been cleared up, by the way. Further on, he says: "I am not going to ask the PBL to postpone the press conference on the basis of the above points. It stands for AZ, or even better the mp."You taste the bitterness of the former leader of that party, who sees how democratic principles are squandered "free to contact the PBL yourself." I don't mind if you share this note with AZ. Put it in the archives." How stupid do you think Ed Nijpels is, if we're all so stupid here that we're asking questions about this? He really didn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u49	I did not call anyone stupid, although I do not wish to contradict Mr Asscher. I didn't call anyone stupid. The only thing I see here is that on 10 July we heard exactly how it would go at the press conference, that it all went exactly as we heard it then, that none of us raised a finger and said 'I do not think that is a good route', and that afterward there are parties saying 'on second thought I do not agree'. That's what I'm noticing. I would add that I find it a little strange that we are now having a debate on the fact that the Prime Minister is just keeping to his commitments. I'd love to, but I just think it's a little crazy; that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u50	So if you don't raise your finger on July 10th...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u51	July 11th or July 12th. It could have been all summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u52	Yes, you've said that a few times. Then the Prime Minister is free to interpret an appointment in a way that the client of an independent agency who has not experienced and about which he sends furious e-mails? That's the VVD's defense line? That's what we have to do, and the rest isn't stupid, but curious?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u53	I note that the Prime Minister said: "Guys, we made a deal. Shall we keep it that way? Then I can come up with a good appreciation so that there can be a debate on the substance in the Chamber. Because this subject is so important. It's so valuable. The people at home are worried about whether it's affordable and manageable and whether they can all experience it. Let us ensure that we have the most substantive debate possible. So please let us stick to those agreements, so that I can also come up with an appreciation about perhaps the greatest transition of our time." I do think that's a pretty logical story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u54	With all appreciation for the person of Mrs Yeşilgöz...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u55	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u56	What the VVD is doing here, I find truly a mockery of the task you have, especially as a representative of the largest party. You can't put up such a big mouth to anyone who asks questions here, very normal questions, questions that live wider, just because it's such a sensitive subject, call everyone curious, and then don't go into the fact that the person to whom the VVD refers and who hangs up the whole story "on July 10th everything was clear" didn't only interpret it so differently himself, but it was furious about it not you, but that Prime Minister. If that's how the VVD's gonna defend itself, you're gonna isolate yourself. You don't hear any more criticism. You find that criticism curious rather than looking at your own actions in controlling power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u57	Mr Asscher has also been on this side. Does Mr Asscher really want to tell me that when he was a ruler, when he was responsible for policy, he never said: you know, I'm gonna hold off on this investigation until I've been able to explain it properly, so that I can inform the Chamber properly? This is a usual route we've been taking here for years. Mr Asscher has been around here longer than I have, so he knows that even better than I do. And now that Mr Asscher is on that side, is it suddenly a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u58	This is something interesting. Now the line of defense is changing. Just now it was a very stupid, no, curious question from all of us. Ed Nijpels was a super-oil dumb climate pope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u59	I never said that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u60	I just said in my input: I think the cover-up is worse than the offense. I find it insane that if you are caught by Nieuwsuur, you say the Prime Minister's intervention for a debate: it is not a good time for me. I understand that. It's certainly not the first time or the last time that happens, but he gets caught and then there's a story like that. A story that the country will become completely unmanageable if we'd provided those figures. Bullshit! You have read the report and it says: these measures are too vague to be passed on and yes, CO-tax would be a good idea. It didn't come out because then the debate wouldn't be possible without cabinet juice, but it didn't come out because it was bad for the cabinet because there just wasn't anything there yet. That's what's going on. I'm fine with the line of defense being: yes, it wasn't that neat, but you've done that yourself while you were sitting there. That's a different line of defense than "the whole opposition is crazy."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u61	I didn't say "it wasn't neat, and you've done it yourself." I asked if it is not customary in this house to give an explanation as a ruler at the time you receive advice and investigations. I remember an example from my personal interest in an anti-Semitism dossier that Mr Asscher experienced himself in 2015. He had an investigation that came out and in a letter to the Chamber I read it, because I was working on that subject he said: I regret that it comes out this way, because I would have liked to have kept it for a little longer for a good explanation; then there could be a good debate. It's just an example, and that's not to say it's not neat. No, that's how it's going in this house. You take the usual time to come up with a good response, so that you can then have a substantive debate. Then the people at home will know what you stand for and what's going on. That's what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u62	No. The example shows that the VVD did not understand. What happened is not that the Prime Minister says at a press conference: these are the figures, but I find it so clumsy, I would have liked to appreciate it. What happened is an intervention. It was completely undesirable and the Prime Minister wanted to ban it, in the words of Mr Wiebes. That's what happened, that's the problem. That's not the use here. At the moment when the VVD as the largest party thinks that it is use or that it is legitimate, we have a much bigger problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u63	It is very common to take a reasonable time to express an appreciation at the time when you receive advice or investigations from third parties so that the Chamber can discuss the substance of the matter. Mr Asscher knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u64	If I understand correctly, Mrs Zegerius says that it is the most important thing that, if a report comes out or a bill from the Planning Bureau, there should be a cabinet response. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u65	That is my preference, because then we can talk about it in substance. I am not going to discuss whether that is feasible or whether it can be achieved, but I prefer it. I also think Mr Klaver's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u66	With that reasoning paper, you say it's a good thing it didn't go public with Prince's Day, because that whole appreciation, the cabinet response, wasn't there yet. Eventually, this billing became public on 28 September, even without a cabinet response. That was another week later. Apparently, it wasn't a problem at the time. I remember how we all walked around in the Netherlands that week in total confusion and thought: what should we do now, how should we react to this? It was a blind panic that week. That wasn't so bad, was it? That's what you just said. Yeah, there was no blind panic. There had been a publication of those figures and a week later the cabinet came with an appreciation. Why couldn't I do it before Prince's Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u67	Because the cabinet had agreed with the independent planning agency that it would be published by the end of September. The letter says that unfortunately it has not been possible to do it at the same time, and I find it quite logical, frankly, that the cabinet does not say to the PBL that they should not come out with it. An agreement has been made and that has been kept. I find it a pity that it did not come out with an appreciation at the same time. It's really that simple. There really isn't anymore in or behind or under. We've been talking about it all along, but that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u68	I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u69	Yeah, sorry. But my goodness, Mr. Chairman. Mr Asscher has just quoted from the mail of the chairman of the Climate Change Council, in which he says: it is against the agreement, we have agreed that it is the thirteenth and up to the highest level we agree on this. Next, the VVD claims at high and low that the deal was real that we would do it somewhere after Princess Day. Damn it, they're talking about it in all those e-mails. Mr Nijpels himself says that they would publish for Princess Day. Then how can you say that there was another appointment here at high and low? Then I don't think you're being completely honest with this room either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u70	Mr Klaver heard loud and clear at the press conference on 10 July that we would get the appreciation in the course of September. If Mr Klaver didn't think that was acceptable and wanted it for Princess Day, he could have just said it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u71	Mr. Klaver, one last comment, because I see that the questions are repeated and so are the answers. At some point everything changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u72	The very last one. It's not about whether we wanted those figures for Princess' Day. The point is that the Prime Minister made sure they weren't there on Princess Day. You're turning it around. If the figures can't be there for Princess' Day, there's no one in this Chamber who's gonna stomp on that. The point is that we now know that the Prime Minister made sure that they were there after Princess Day, when they could have been there. That's the political point tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u73	Mr Klaver is here quite regularly, about every week, to request a debate on climate change. Almost all such requests, when it comes to reports from PBL or anyone else, he says: once the appreciation is there, I want the debate. This was the case on 2 October. That he is now saying that this whole appreciation does not really interest him and that he would have just wanted those figures to be able to debate without that appreciation, that is the twist and deed. I'll hear it the next time he asks for a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The greenest cabinet in the world has been in the saddle for 588 days. While one report after another shows that the planet is far worse than we thought, that the rise in temperature is faster than was thought and that the loss of biodiversity is more serious than thought, we in the Netherlands are still waiting with sorrow for the green deeds of this cabinet. The Prime Minister may take the view that we, the Netherlands, are already doing a great deal, as he told us on 7 February, the fact is that the Netherlands is more closed when it comes to generating energy from renewable energy sources and that the Netherlands is home to a bio-industry that is responsible for emissions and loss of biodiversity far beyond national borders. The lack of action of this cabinet is stark against what is happening around us. On 1 May, the British Parliament declared the climate emergency situation. This spring, school and student strikes for sustainability and a better environment became a global phenomenon. And in the United States, there has been a serious discussion about a green new deal: a massive government effort to make the US economy climate neutral by 2030. Today, American economist Joseph Stiglitz writes in The Guardian that the question of whether the US can afford this is a wrong one. We need to see climate change as World War III. No effort should be too much to avert climate change, says Stiglitz. Or, to speak to Greta Thunberg, "I wish you would act as you would in a crisis. I want you to pretend the house is on fire. That's what it says." If the climate had been a bank, it would have been a long time ago. Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating whether the Prime Minister has withheld crucial information from the Chamber on the eve of the General Reviews by asking the Planning Offices to postpone the publication of the Climate Change Accounts, because it was not convenient for him. It's another political riot from Mark Rutte's premier career. All I have to do is refer to the Prime Minister's talk about abolishing the dividend tax in order to clarify what I am talking about. Sustainability must, but within the ranges that large companies like Unilever and Shell have set. Their short-term interests are central. Mr. Chairman. During the biggest ecological crisis ever, the greenest cabinet ever turned out to be a cabinet that mainly shifts off, at climate tables where large pollutants are overrepresented, and passes on to future generations. And that further loses itself in fine words and political games, which are intended to conceal the fact that the bill is placed on the citizen. It is yet another nail to the coffin of the green image of this cabinet. I find it incomprehensible that the Christian Union and D66, the parties calling themselves green, continue to support a prime minister who is doing everything possible to minimise the issue of climate policy. What are all the fine words of those parties worth? Should we not, as a Chamber, send a strong signal to the cabinet and to society, like the British, by declaring the climate emergency situation? I'm considering a motion on this point. 'Cause what good is money if the ice sheet melts? Furthermore, I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u76	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u77	Mr. Chairman. I have asked myself a number of times today what I should be the tenth speaker here tonight. Can I ask you another original question? But I think that's gonna work anyway. Because there was a letter. I read it, and I put a few questions there. My first question is whether the Prime Minister has played any role in bringing the climate agreement to the Chamber not on 13 September but on 28 September. That is a very specific question, which I think can be answered briefly. It's a question for historians. I like to look forward myself. That is why I also have a question that is more on the path of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, which I am very curious about. Let's say it was 15 days later. So what was the result? Is there any practical consequence because of those fifteen days that make the Netherlands look different or would look different? I take it that this question is on the board of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Mr. Chairman. Then I still have a question for the Prime Minister, looking forward. This climate agreement, is it coming to us in June? And when that happens, does the Prime Minister have any tendency to influence that? I would then advise him to bring that forward for 15 days. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u78	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u79	Mr. Chairman. Welcome back to the Minister and the Prime Minister, also tonight. Last night we were here to debate the terrible situation in Groningen. That was really a debate where I asked him to do something. Tonight we look back on something the cabinet did. In the summer of last year there was a concept, after many discussions in the climate council between sector parties. The independent planning agencies PBL and CPB went ahead with this and were expected to come up with their conclusions after the summer. So there was a plan. It was adapted during the summer, and then returned to the original planning. What was that about? What was the Prime Minister's role in that? That's what journalists wanted clarity about. And for that we in the Netherlands have a democratic instrument that will enable us to enforce transparency in public administration: the WOB. Good news hour used that. The Prime Minister sent us a letter about that. As a result, I have a number of questions. First of all, I have a question about the process at the planning agencies, and more specifically about the cabinet's response period to figures before they are published. Of course, the planning agencies themselves decide the date of publication of their reports, but it is also stated in the published documents that, from the beginning, unwritten rules and rules were used in practice. They require the cabinet to have about twenty days to find something of reports together. That seems to me to be a logical argument in principle. Yet not everyone counted on this term. How can these deadlines be unclear? And what lesson does the Prime Minister draw from that? What could be better next time? Then it's about the direction. The first meeting of the Council of Ministers of 24 August confirmed the first meeting on 28 September of the wire transfers and the press release. The deal seemed clear and clear. Subsequently, the figures seemed to be more ready, which led the planning agencies and the climate agency together with an official at the Ministry of EZK to change the process. At least, that image emerges from the published documents. My question to the Minister: is this picture correct? I would like to hear a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. It is good if we can clarify these points further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u80	Mr Klaver has another question. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u81	They're enlightening questions. But Mr Sienot has also read the documents. What does he think about the Prime Minister saying that he wanted to lift it over Prince's Day and that it was better if it wasn't discussed there? I suppose he has an opinion on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u82	The image that emerges from me is that the Prime Minister said that he wanted to present both the figures and the reaction of the cabinet together. I think that's a logical argument, because you'd like to have a full debate on the whole story. That is my response, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u83	So you think it makes sense for the Prime Minister to say that? While the Ministry of Economic Affairs actually states, let's publish it directly. And while Ed Nijpels also said, let's publish it for Prince's Day, because before you know it, things are leaking out and it looks like the cabinet is holding things back. At the Ministry of EZK there was therefore no problem to go outside already. So the Prime Minister was right. It was very logical that he would say and that he meant: we have a cabinet juice valuation and we should be able to think about it, and the minister responsible, who is responsible for the substance, did not find it a problem. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u84	I understand the question, but I wasn't sitting there at the table. You're asking me what I think. I can follow the Prime Minister very honestly in the fact that you want to debate a complete story. I think that's a good story. In the end, it's about a lot of things. It's actually about how we live, how we eat, how we transport ourselves. That's so many things that affect people's lives, that it's good that there's a cabinet response to that, so we can talk about the whole story. My question to the cabinet is therefore also more important: why did this not happen in the end, if that was the aim?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u85	If you say that you do understand the Prime Minister, then it also goes towards the Minister of Economic Affairs: fade that your ministry actually wanted to publish this; how can you do that, because there was no cabinet juice yet, how could you get this into your head? That is the strange thing about this situation and that is why the whole explanation is wrong. The Prime Minister sent a political message to this effect and indicated that it depended on the content of the transfer before or after Prinsjesdag was published. That shows that he wanted to steer the political debate. I don't think that's the role the Prime Minister has, and you could admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u86	In my opinion, I also asked very clearly about the image that emerges from the pieces. I've asked the Minister to respond to that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u88	Thank you, Madam President. The contribution of the Netherlands to combating climate change is one of the biggest tasks in this government period. Ambitious targets have been set, which were also laid down in the Climate Law last week. It is good to see that there is also a broad political scale for this. In the meantime, a climate agreement with representatives of civil society, industry and public authorities is also being worked hard to achieve the goals. With the climate tables, we secure social support. That is a complicated but also beautiful and challenging process. We want to get the targets. It is therefore necessary that the Planning Office for the Environment, the PBL, also calculates the plans. We want the plans to be affordable for citizens and businesses. That is why it is necessary for the Central Planning Bureau, the CPB, to pass on the plans. The climate tables, the planning agencies, the politics and the cabinet all have their own role. They work together and it is also good that everyone can take that role. The planning offices are important to assess the plans of the cabinet as independent mathematicians. And, of course, it is a good thing that the cabinet has the opportunity to give what the mathematicians say an appreciation, as we call it in The Hague. Ultimately, what the cabinet is going to do with the calculations made by the planning agencies is important. With respect for the independence of the planning agencies and the maintenance of their own roles, it is therefore not strange for our group to have contact between the various bodies. For my group, there is one question at the moment: can the Prime Minister indicate how secure it is that the roles and independence of the planning agencies are guaranteed in this kind of process, so that they are not called into question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u90	Madam President. For months they've been meeting: the controversial climate tables. Representatives from all sectors of society were involved: business, the climate lobby, the government. Together they cooked up the expensive and pointless climate plans. The only one who wasn't at the table was the taxpayer. And that is the very one who can start to finance the measures. The "independent" Planning Office for the Environment, as independent, as it turns out, as the GDR was democratic, was commissioned to pass on these proposals from the climate agreement. In mid-September it would be ready, just in time for Princess Day and the General Political Reviews, the week when we discuss the budget here in Parliament and make the ultimate democratic weighting of the cabinet's plans. Mark Rutte thought this was undesirable. In all its independence, the PBL cooperated and thus opposed disclosure of information. Publication of the bill was lifted over Prince's Day. It was precisely on this essential day in the year that Parliament was deprived of the opportunity to express its opinion on about the largest project of this century, the 1,000 billion-dollar energy transition. Now the climate tables were in themselves a typical example of cartel policy: polding behind the scenes with civil society organisations and pushing it through the cabinet by hand without the taxpayer being involved. But now there is a second scandal. Rutte appears to have put great pressure behind the scenes to manipulate the date of publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u91	I remember another debate with Mr Baudet in which he indicated that he would have his 100,000 billion, well, 1,000 billion, passed on to the PBL. When can we expect the wire transfer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u92	I'll take that over Prince's Day, if that's all right with you, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u93	But when exactly after Prince's Day? Well, you can report that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u94	We have presented a whole model of this on our website. We have indeed indicated that we are very willing to discuss all these posts with all kinds of planning agencies and ask them to do so. We will certainly do that. I don't have a date for you yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u95	You just don't live up to your word. You promise here in the Chamber that you'll let it pass and you just won't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u96	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u97	Well, that's right, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u98	No, of course not. We are very willing. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u99	This is a nice bunch of bullshit from Mr. Baudet, isn't it? He promised here in the Chamber to have it passed on to an independent agency, but he simply doesn't. So he's not gonna live up to his word. It is very regrettable that we are finding out today. I think that's a shame, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u100	Oh, yeah? I have always said that I am very willing to discuss everything, to let everything pass through. Everyone can watch. I do not see the problem at all, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u101	The problem, Mr Baudet, is that you first promise something to all your colleagues here in the House of Representatives and then just fail to comply. That's the problem. You're gonna lift it all over it. That's easy for you, because whoever claims to have evidence, and you never have to live up to it. Very handy, Mr. Baudet. I don't think it's reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u102	I don't know what she's talking about, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u103	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u104	Once again, I invite everyone to check everything on our website. I have also always said that we are discussing this with everyone. Everyone can watch. Anyone can talk to us about all our analyses, all our theories. Moreover, you can already see that in many provinces it is said: to get this province climate neutral, and so on, we need more than a twelfth of 1,000 billion and so on. So you can see it's even higher than 1,000 billion. I think it's starting to start. How shall I put it? To become a kind of plan, that whole climate transition story, with an open end. The costs are only rising and the results are decreasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u105	I would simply like to repeat the question put by my colleague Mr Mulder. When is Mr Baudet going to forward his plans to the PBL and when can we expect that transfer here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u106	With a Cabinet Juice Appreciation, I hear the Prime Minister now say. I honestly do not remember, after this umpteenth scandal, whether I entrust the PBL with the sole task of calculating things in all its independence. I do not really like that word either, but I have always said it, and I fully support it: all kinds of institutions have to watch and think along with it. We are also just going to involve external organisations. I actually think that's a very good idea. I think I will come up with a very concrete plan for this in the next few days. So you can expect that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u107	Well, you made that commitment here in the Chamber months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u108	What exactly did you think I made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u109	That you have your plans...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u110	What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u111	Mr Baudet has promised here: I will pass on my plans, because I know it so well. Well, we look forward to that. There we are very curious...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u112	What exactly did I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u113	We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u114	No, no, no, no. Can you quote me literally, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u115	I'll just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u116	Just for a second...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u117	No need at all, Mr. Baudet. I can't bring up...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u118	You're quoting me. You say I made a promise. Then I want to know the quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u119	... owls and boreal things. No, listen, listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u120	There's nothing to follow anymore. Wait a minute. Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u121	You have said here in the Chamber, in response to questions from Mr Jetten van D66 and other colleagues, that I will show my plans and I will have them passed on if I have to. Well, I'm fine with you saying not just because of the PBL. Then we do TNO, TU Delft and what you want to add. But I'd like to set a date on which we can arrange them here. Then we'll just talk about it. I really like that. I think the country is very interested in that, too. So what date should we set? About Prince's Day, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u122	Just for the record. I do not know exactly what you are quoting and what you are thinking about what my plans are that I would like to pass on. It is precisely that I see the plans of the cabinet and say: this costs a lot more than you say it costs. I have also said that I think it is a very good idea to let go of several, and preferably external, mathematicians, and perhaps international. That's an incredibly good idea. It's just I don't think it's up to me to say: I have them then and then. I can't say. I'm not going to make those calculations; that would be another organization. But I'm very open to it. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u123	But Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u124	Anyone can do that, can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u125	Mr Baudet then refers to his website, where all these plans are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u126	No, no, no, it's not about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u127	We think it's super interesting. We take them super seriously too...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u128	No, it's not about our plans! It's Rutte's plans!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u130	Don't get mixed up. I'm gonna step in for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u131	It's not my plans that cost 1,000 billion!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u132	You'll continue without a microphone. I would now like to give Mrs Yeşilgöz the floor. Then you can respond to that. Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u133	I am simply extremely interested in Mr Baudet's plans. Well, that should be a profit. That's nice, right? Okay. So I would very much like to know, like Mr Mulder and other colleagues, what these plans mean. Maybe there are some very clever things in there that we're missing. It's possible. So I ask: can we have these plans looked at by planning agencies and independent experts that Mr Baudet himself chooses, and can we just set a date so that we can book that in good time? Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u134	Good. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u135	Yeah, but there it goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u136	No is also an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u137	No, Mrs Yeşilgöz...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u138	If you don't dare, it's fine. Or a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u139	Mr Baudet has the floor. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u140	I think there are two things that are a bit mixed up. One is that we have said: these climate plans are much more expensive; they amount to perhaps 1,000 billion. That's issue one. We have presented an analysis of this on our website. We invite everyone, national but also international calculators, mathematicians and so on, to give their views on this. The first one's starting to drip in now, as I just said. Many provinces say: to make Gelderland climate neutral, so much is needed; to make Overijssel climate neutral, so much is needed. If you add all these amounts together, you're already gonna be worth over 1,000 billion. That is one point, so the plans of this cabinet and how much they would cost. The other point that Mrs van de VVD is talking about, I understand, concerns our own plans, our fantastic plans for a better Netherlands. So that's our own party program, let me get this straight. She would like to hear more about this and want to know more about it. You are also cordially invited to attend. By the way, many VVD'ers have gone before you, who have switched to FvD. The transition weeks will also be soon. There is indeed much more to be said about this. I would also very much like to discuss the plans of the Forum for Democracy, but I am happy to do so at an appropriate time. We also have many nights in the country, and so on. You are also cordially invited there. Now it is going on and that is, of course, a bit of a sensitive issue here about the policy of her own Prime Minister, the VVD's Mark Rutte, who has been cheating behind the scenes with the publication of the PBL's accounts. Of course, I would also like to talk about the plans of the Forum of Democracy. However, I have limited time and I am not going to go into that further in this debate. However, I would like to say one thing: our democratic renewal agenda ultimately also benefits the MPs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u142	During the General Political Reviews in September last year, the Prime Minister not only withheld the calculations of the PBL; he even acted as if they were not there. I quote from his words during the General Political Reviews: 'If they come out with them, then we shall put our views next to them at that time'. That's what he said. Why didn't he honestly tell us that the figures were already on his desk and that a cabinet response was being worked hard? It's just really twisted there. Those words are incompatible with the facts that were present at the time. I find that unacceptable. I think we should be a parliament that immediately gets to see all the relevant information and takes its job seriously. It is poignant that now, also witnessing the Prime Minister's letter, it is pretending that the failure to inform the Chamber would have been in the interests of the Chamber. According to the Prime Minister, it would be bad for the quality of the debate to send the information to the Chamber immediately. But why does the Prime Minister interfere at all with what we as a Chamber are debating? If you were to go through this line, a kind of censorship would have to be applied to all subjects. No information, unless there's already a Cabinet Juice Appreciation. Really? It's up to the Chamber to decide what to do in this house. The Prime Minister is a guest here. We are the highest democratic body in this country. We have a constitutional right to all information. Under Article 68 of the Constitution, I therefore demand that all the climate table interview reports be shared with the Chamber. We know that there were protesters from the ministries at all the climate tables, but we never got to see the reports. They must be sent to the Chamber within a week. I demand that. As a Member of Parliament, I have the constitutional right to do so. That doesn't require a majority in the Chamber. We can just force that, individually, each. I want to avoid a second dividend debacle. All the information must now become public, all the call reports from the climate tables! Can the Prime Minister promise to do so immediately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u143	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u144	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u145	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the core first. Then I'll answer a lot of questions about it. That's how I try to structure it. Then Minister Wiebes will answer a few remaining questions. I'll start with the core. At the heart of the matter is the fact that the Climate Council is working on these figures, asking for them to be passed on and making agreements on 14 August, which means that these documents will come out with a cabinet response at the end of September. That's the deal made on August 14th. That also fits in with the normal process. Both the Planning Bureau for the Environment and more formally the Central Planning Bureau use a twenty-day period. At the Planning Office for the Environment, it is less tightly regulated, but they themselves say last week that it is usance to use a twenty-day period. There are many examples of this. This is how it works at the Centraal Planbureau in recent studies on the contribution to social cost-benefit analyses, in background studies, in ibos. This is the case with the PBL in the case of national energy explorations and legislative assessments. Look at the Fertilizers Act. In all these cases, about 20 days are used. So it was logical and not at all weird that the Climate Change Council had agreed with the agencies and the agencies kept to the rules that eventually there would be a pride that would mean that with a cabinet response the whole thing would come out at the end of September. That is not the case either in the Cabinet on 24 August, because that is not our concern. That's what the Climate Council is about. But in the light of this planning, we are establishing and deciding that this means, for our internal planning, that we will have that cabinet response by the end of September. That's what happens on August 24th. Then there's a "b" and that's fine, that's always allowed to be creative: boys, pay attention, danger of leakage, it's a tight schedule. And then it's said, "Wouldn't it be better if we brought this case out sooner?" That's what I hear on September 3rd. My reaction is then: I think that this is unwise, we are not formally talking about it, it is the Climate Council that instructs these agencies and they are also talking about these deadlines. When asked, my reaction was: I think it is unwise. And why do I think it's unwise? Because it means that we deviate from the planning we had and cannot use a normal response time. Then we returned to the Climate Council: Rutte thinks that this is unwise, also based on a discussion in the Council of Ministers of 24 August. I think this is a perfectly normal course of action from a to z. I really want to have said that here at the beginning of this debate. Then we'll go into everything around it. This is how we do it in so many investigations, so that the cabinet has the opportunity to respond. Why did I find that? Because in the first place I just wanted to stick to the normal response times. Secondly, I found it extremely unfortunate that we had indeed been in the General Reviews which would have dealt with this dividend tax. Didn't we all have a great time in mind? And then those discussions would be polluted by this element. I'm kidding. However, the fact is that we would have talked about climate figures for two days without a cabinet response. So I didn't do anything weird here. I have simply based myself on the normal arrangements between the cabinet and the offices that a cabinet has the opportunity to give a response. In a formal sense, it is then the Climate Council that instructs it. So Nijpels could have said, "Goodbye, I'll hold on to earlier." You can also see in those e-mails that he disagrees. It could have been. But I can also give my response, based on the fact that that deadline is there. That is in line with all normal practices between cabinet and desks. The PBL is not to blame here either, because it does so on behalf of the Climate Council. If they say "we do want to move with an earlier date," there is no objection to that. They do that neatly. Eventually, for all kinds of reasons, it's gonna be later. But this was my view and that is what I really stand for. Nothing strange happened there. I really want to take that haze away here that I or the cabinet did something weird here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u146	I would like to know how the Prime Minister then qualifies the decision of 24 August. In replying to questions from the press on 29 May last, he said: I did that intervention, I did not wish to do so because of my duty as Prime Minister to implement the decision of the Council of Ministers on the date of publication; people went creative and then things got different, but it is my job as Prime Minister to implement that decision. What was that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u147	The decision taken by the Cabinet on 24 August was that, in the light of what was told us what the planning would be, in line with what is normal, namely a response period to respond to documents from planning agencies, we would come to a response at the end of September. On 3 September, I said, "I'm gonna stick to that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u148	At the press conference, it sounded as if the Prime Minister was working here in his normal work as Prime Minister to implement the decisions of the Council of Ministers. I was very curious to see how a decision by the Council of Ministers could lead to a date of publication of an independent body that could justify an intervention by the Prime Minister. That's the reasoning he's been showing over the past week. And that's not true, of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u149	Because in good consultation we were informed on 14 August that in accordance with all normal procedures the cabinet would have 20 days to respond. In the Council of Ministers of 24 August, we then decided to do so in this way. So when I heard on 3 September that there had been thought about another date of publication, I said: I do not think that is appropriate. Taking into account the cabinet decision of 24 August on how we would respond at the end of September, in the light of the information we had received that we could have used those normal deadlines, I said: I think this is an unwise decision. I couldn't block it with that, and I couldn't have done that anyway, because even if they report to us, those agencies are independent. But then you'll have a little more feet to stand on. Then you can say: listen, at the CPB it is tightly arranged, at the PBL are those twenty days of usance. But here the same deadlines have been used in the contact between the Climate Council and the agencies. I thought it was very important that they kept to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u150	If you look at the rules of procedure of the Council of Ministers, you will see that the Council of Ministers makes decisions on all kinds of things, on laws, on regulations and even on which documents are sent to the House of Representatives, but not on the date of publication, and certainly not on the date of publication of an independent agency. So that doesn't legitimize intervention. The Prime Minister may have all kinds of views, but something else has happened here. It's very undesirable. Read the e-mail from Ed Nijpels. AZ cannot forbid this at all. My question to the Prime Minister is: who is actually responsible within the Council of Ministers, whose job is to protect the independence of these planning agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u151	My job!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u152	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u153	I'll get to that in a minute. That's my job, and that's what I'm doing here. That is why I believe that if agreements have been made by a Climate Council with agencies to make use of the normal response period, so that you can have a proper debate in the Chamber and society, and then it is agreed that these deadlines will be waived... Again, they could have decided to stick to that. Those desks can do it anyway. They don't have to stick to that. I have just said that the Central Planning Bureau has more strict protocol than the PBL, but here, on the basis of the normal response period, the Climate Council and the agencies made that twenty-day appointment. There is then a deviation from it. I say on 3 September in response to what I heard at the time: I think it is unwise for EZK and the Climate Council to deviate from what was told us about what would happen and on the basis of which we have taken a cabinet decision on how we are going to prepare our response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u154	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u155	On 21 February 2012, an arrangement was published on the protection of the independence of the planning agencies. It's the Prime Minister's responsibility. So what was he supposed to do? When the client made an appointment with the planning agency about the date of publication, he should have protected the client. He should have told Ed Nijpels if you wanted to, because I think the position of the planning agency is far more important than my own inconvenience in the General Reviews. That's my job as Prime Minister, and that's what I'm protecting. He didn't. On the contrary, he has told the press that it is his job as Prime Minister to protect the decision on the date of publication. And that's bullshit. Too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u156	This is just not true. Mr Asscher brings in things that don't add up. What happened was that on 24 August the cabinet decided how it would prepare the response towards the end of September. Then we are confronted... That's not a big deal either. All that is allowed; please continue to think creatively after decisions have been made. But then I can find something of it if other ideas emerge in spite of these decisions. They can sometimes be very good, by the way. In this case, I thought it was a bad plan. Why did I think it was a bad plan? Because it would have meant that we had seen those documents, the transfers of the planning agencies, brought out, brought out by the Climate Council, without a cabinet response. And I found it extremely undesirable that we had been standing here in the General Reviews with a cabinet with hands tied behind our backs, because we could not respond to those payments. The Chamber was right to ask. That is not because I wanted to protect the Chamber from an impossible debate; I find it socially undesirable. It is about building support for these important issues. That is why we have agreements in the Netherlands on these kinds of deadlines. I'm really far from throwing... Look, if I make mistakes, I admit it. That's what I did yesterday. I'll admit it. I don't have a problem with that either. We all make mistakes, but I sincerely believe that I did not make a mistake in this dossier and that I was right to say that if these agreements have been made and the cabinet has made its planning on that basis, then I can also ask others to stick to that planning. They could have put that aside, by the way. And then you can ask again: but if Rutte says that as Prime Minister, it will weigh heavily. That may be so, but if for that reason I have to sit behind my desk like a eunuch and find nothing if others deviate from previous decisions, then I find that incomprehensible. I need to be able to respond to that. I need to find something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u157	Actually, I have one very important question for the Prime Minister. Is my statement that there would have been a publication on 13 September if you and the Ministry of General Affairs had not complained about the agreement between the planning agencies and EZ?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u158	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u159	No, but I'm asking you. You did; we have the Minutes here. We've got the pieces. AZ...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u160	It doesn't make any sense what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u161	It may be annoying to hear, and perhaps that is why you are interrupting me, but you have indicated that you do not agree with the appointment made by a senior EZ official with the planning agencies to publish on 13 September. That was in jugs and jugs and there had, I think, been no angry e-mail from the chairman, your party colleague, Mr Nijpels. So it's just that at the time that AZ hadn't intervened, no email had gone from AZ to EZ to say "no green light." And then it wasn't communicated. In other words, if you, Mr. Rutte, had agreed as Prime Minister and had not started to honk, then EZ's appointment with those offices would have just been carried out and we would have seen the documents on 13 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u162	That's just not true. That is not clear from the documents; then you must read them properly. It is quite clear in those documents that, apart from my intervention, there is a second development. Look at the pieces. There is a second development on 6 September, namely that there are so many questions about the summary that has been sent, that the planning agencies will eventually say: we cannot do that publication date in this way anymore; it will be later. So I don't know what it was. Mr Wilders is right in saying that my mail, the AZ official's note with my view of it, was decisive. It may also be that it is what is happening on 6 September, that there are so many questions that they say: the publication is going to be later. We don't know which one it is. I don't know. So it's not that it's necessarily because of my mail, but it could very well have come through that mail. So I would have liked that too, because that is why I asked for this opinion to be made known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u163	It may well have come through your mail. That's right. It's because of your e-mail. You said, again, in the M-staff at your Ministry of General Affairs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u164	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u165	...that you find it undesirable. The same day, I believe, or a day after that, the e-mail went out that I say it again; I cannot repeat it enough; there is no green light for the publication; as if the department is in charge. In other words, you personally ensured that there was no publication and that the Chamber did not have the information during the General Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u166	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u167	You just said I wanted to protect the Chamber. No, you wanted to protect yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u168	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u169	You just didn't want to get into the debate with the Chamber on this unpleasant subject of climate policy, on the accounts that your party didn't like. Don't beat around the bush! Just say: maybe I shouldn't have done that, but that's why I didn't want to talk about it, I got rid of those numbers and I made it the end of September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u170	Mr Wilders is half right, the first half of his speech. It may well be that that e-mail of mine has been the deciding factor. We're not sure what happened on September 6th was important. It may well be that that email of mine from 3 September gave the key to not publishing in the end. Then I achieved what I wanted, because I didn't want to. I didn't want it published by way of derogation from the normal procedural arrangements. I couldn't force that, because the Climate Council is the principal of the planning agencies. The planning agencies have done this neatly, I think, quite frankly. The Climate Council also; they just started looking creatively and said: shouldn't we do it sooner? I have given my opinion on this. It may well be that I hope that this has been decisive, because then it has indeed succeeded in keeping it away from the APB without a cabinet response. I thought that was unwise. I thought it was important that we stick to the normal 20-day response period in this process, where pieces go out with a cabinet juice appreciation. But I'm sure I don't, because there were other things going on. But it could very well be that way. In the second half of his speech, Mr Wilders comes up with all sorts of things to explain why I would have done so. I'm really gonna leave it to him. It's just not true. This whole climate theme has become very large since December, when the cabinet came up with a draft climate agreement. This was a very different phase, in which building blocks were provided to achieve such a concept climate agreement. There weren't any major political sensitivities in this. That's what you'll see at the end of September, early October, when those pieces come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u171	The Prime Minister is only making things worse. He is not just saying now: it could well have been because of my intervention in the e-mails. He even says he hopes! He hopes that his performance, which he literally says, has led us as a Chamber not to receive the documents for the General Reviews. How can you say that? We're here to check on you. We need all the information we can get. It's not a condition at all that there's an appreciation. This has not always been the case, not to this day. And you just say, "Room, you didn't get the information," and I hope it's because of me! You can't do that, can you, state law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u172	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u173	You're kidding, aren't you? Then you're kidding us, aren't you? Well, my conclusion on that is pretty clear. I still have one more question. Mr Nijpels sent that angry e-mail on 5 September at twenty to eleven, from which Mr Asscher has already quoted extensively, the e-mail in which the steam came from his ears and in which he said: look at it, I am not going to postpone it; if you want to share it with AZ, do it. Read: If Rutte wants to call me, go ahead. And the next day, September 6th at 13:34, he's through the pump. Then he sends an e-mail at once saying: well, maybe we should postpone it in some other words, because they should have the opportunity to respond to it. On the same day, he received an answer from the Bureau: yes, but then we have to postpone it. The total turned around world in 24 hours! Can you tell me, do you have any knowledge of what happened at that time? Is there anyone, whether you are, or an official, in the department of yours or of Economic Affairs who contacted Mr Nijpels at the beginning of the afternoon between that night of 5 September 22.38 and 6 September to move him to do so? If not, how do you explain that he's turning 180 degrees, from steam from his ears to licking your heels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u174	It's in the pieces. Then take a good look. September 6th, Mommaas's email from the PBL in which he says: listen, there have been a lot of questions about the summary and the planning agencies are prepared, at the explicit request of the table presidents, to inspect the comprehensive report on September 13th. He says that it follows that publication can only be done in the week of September 24th. So not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u175	No, but that's the reaction...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u176	That was September 6th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u177	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u178	Well, that's after that last e-mail from Nijpels. So what we don't know is whether it's because of me. If you see Nijpels' reaction, I don't think so. I think Nijpels says about my reaction: just stop that reaction where it can't be seen anymore. But I don't know. It may still be because of my reaction. Something else happens on September 6th. Then Mommaas says: because there are now developments in the reactions to that concept, I can't make it at all anymore. We're not sure which one it is. You'll have to ask the Climate Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u179	Mr President, that is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u180	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u181	Again, on that night of the 5th, with steam coming out of his ears, Nijpels tells the story: we're not gonna do it, tell him Rutte can get in the tree and if he has a problem with that, he can call me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u182	Well, you can, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u183	It is unthinkable that after a night's sleep he says at once, "Well, we're going to do that, we're going to give Mr. Rutte his way," with the reason that there's still to be discussed and that they can respond to the figures. Then he only gets the answer: then we won't make it. Not for that, but for that. So something happened in the meantime. And my question, again, to you is next, and I just want an answer to that. Is there anyone from the department whether you are or someone from Economic Affairs or General Affairs who contacted Mr Nijpels on that day, in those 24 hours, by telephone, for example, because we do not see that in these documents with Mr Nijpels to take care of this? Is he promised, is he threatened with something, is there-I-I-What's been done? What happened, who contacted him, that he changed his mind? I just want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u184	There's constant contact from EZK. From AZ there has been no contact with Nijpels. And not from me, at all, in that whole period. But I'm telling you, the pieces show what the explanation is. Something else happens on September 6th. Then there will be an e-mail from the boss of the Planning Bureau for the Environment. And he says to Nijpels and the club: boys, pay attention, because there have been many reactions to the provided summary we are not going to make the planning anymore. But Nijpels said before, on that 5th September: it's all wonderful, I tuned it up to the highest level to EZ, I'm just holding a press conference on 13 September. So it's clear how he's in there. But then, one day after that, that mail comes from Mommaas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u185	Mr. Chairman. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u186	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u187	Finally. On the Friday of the Council of Ministers, it will be decided unilaterally by the Council of Ministers: we will stick to those agreements. Four days later, on the Tuesday after that Council of Ministers, the Climate Council meets. There is an official of EZ, the planning agencies are there and Mr Nijpels is there as the client. And they decide four days after that Council of Ministers to do exactly the opposite of what you agreed on in that Council of Ministers. Namely: we do it anyway and we do it on the 13th. Then there's going to be a whole mechanism. Then, on 5 September, after he is tired of being totally approached and pushed to do things differently, the steam comes from Mr Nijpels' ears. And within 12 hours, he'll change his mind. You just said I didn't call, but there's been constant contact from EZ officials. I just want to know who got in touch between the night of the 5th and the afternoon of the 6th. I just want a transcript of that. I want a factual account of it. Who's been in contact with Nijpels? Because it is unimaginable that he has done so without any pressure or movement. Maybe we disagree, but then prove it to you. Could I see a list of who from the Nijpels Departments has been in contact with? Everything we have, it's either not written or it's painted away. There's been a whole bunch of pages left black. Isn't that okay with me to ask? I want to be open about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u188	I'm not gonna do that. I'm just telling you that AZ hasn't been in touch and neither have I. On September 6th, I just explained it to you; look at the pieces of "Thank you" there is a new development. That's what the boss of the PBL says: I can't make it anymore. He says that: we don't make the original planning anymore. That's September 6th. So after Nijpels was so angry. So we don't know exactly what happened there. But the fact is that my view was on 3 September, and it had not changed, that it was unwise to release that piece without a cabinet juice. I insisted on sticking to the normal deadlines. Mr. Chairman. Again, that's the normal thing to do. That's what we do with all these reports. You know me as someone who admits it here when mistakes are made. Unfortunately, I have had to do this too often; the number of scratches on my face is now considerable. And I don't mind, because it's part of driving. You're trying to prevent them. Here I sincerely think that we did well and that my reaction was appropriate when I heard that they wanted to deviate from that planning. I should be able to say the same here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u189	In my opinion, this is the first time I have heard a ruler here with enthusiasm and enthusiasm arguing that he really wants to protect the Chamber by not sharing information with the Chamber. To put it mildly, that's a very strange figure. The questions asked by Mr Wilders were also raised in my first term. I think they are justified, and I would like to continue with that. Mr Rutte said that on 6 September the PBL suddenly indicated that there was still a need for more information. But that is after the Prime Minister, who, of course, has nothing to say about it at all, has indicated that he does not think it is wise for that information to come out. Doesn't the Prime Minister think that's a bit of a coincidence, to say the least?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u190	No, because 6 September is one day after the table presidents have received a summary of the OJ. That's what's in the pieces. It says there are so many questions about the pieces... Also with the request for a preliminary inspection of the integrated report on 13 September, the boss of the PBL says: listen, it follows that the publication will be in the week of 24 September and that we will not make 13 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u191	We cannot avoid the impression that the Prime Minister is interfering with things he should not interfere with. That's a bad thing. At the same time, his argument is that he thinks it is so very important that he has interfered, because he does not want those figures to go outside without reaction from the cabinet. Well, we all know by now that those numbers have gone out without the government's reaction. That reaction didn't come until a week later. Well, then that argument goes away, too, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u192	I'm gonna have to get involved in that! And I have every right to! I have every right to do that! We make deals... No, let me rephrase. We hear from the Climate Council that they have made an appointment with the PBL and the Central Planning Bureau and that the normal response periods are used. We will hear that after 14 August, when these agreements have been made. In the cabinet we say on 24 August: okay, against that background this will be our planning for the cabinet response. Then it's said: we're going to do it sooner anyway. That's okay; they should have gone through with it. I'm allowed to think of that, aren't I? It would be crazy if I had to say, "Oh, well, that deviates. We thought it was this. Well, then we're gonna go all the way over here and we're gonna do something completely different. Then we'll see how those pieces come out without a cabinet response, different from all normal procedures." So I was against it! I am not blaming anyone at all, especially not the planning agencies, because they did all this on behalf of the Climate Council. But I thought it was unwise what the Climate Council said there. Then the Climate Council could have continued this. You can see those e-mails from Nijpels. If you read it back like that, I think it's going to go through with it and he thinks, "Rutte fuck me, I'll just go through with the planning of September 13th, because that press conference is booked and it's going on. I could have just done that and I could have just liked that, but I did find some of that. That's the e-mail from September 3rd. Again, I really insist that it's my job to just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u193	Yes, and if we ask here from the Chamber if we can have that information in detail, if we ask who has been in contact when and if we can get a factual account of it, then the Prime Minister simply says: no. At the same time, he says that his argument to intervene was that he was allowed to find what he found. Of course, the Prime Minister may find what he thinks, but the point here is that he has intervened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u194	Yes! That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u195	Yeah, and that's exactly our point. You're not talking about that! If the PBL wants to publish, the PBL will publish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u196	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u197	And what did you do? You have indicated that you are not served by this, knowing that there is an important political debate here, namely the most important debate of the year, and that these figures will only be published afterwards, without a cabinet response. And let that be the argument why it had to be postponed!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u198	As was agreed on August 14th! Not by us, but by the Climate Council with the agencies, on which we had then made our own planning. Then the Climate Council said, and that was allowed: we are going to deviate from that. But I also have freedom of speech! Then I may say: "Guys, this is completely different from what we discussed earlier. We're planning at the end of September. Is this taken into account what it means that in the APB there is a cabinet without reaction to these kinds of figures?" Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm really keeping that from a to z standing! That's really normal, and that's what I'm allowed to do. That's my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u199	Soon the Prime Minister will say that he believes that this should be done to the depths of his fibers!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u200	Well, I wasn't going to repeat that statement here in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u201	It reminds me a bit of that, the fanaticism with which this is defended while at least tonight... Let me ask you. Maybe that's better. Do you find with the knowledge of now... First, the figures of the PBL went out without a cabinet response, which you would have liked so much and what the argument was to postpone it after the most important debate of the year we are having here in the Chamber. Do you still think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u202	Yeah, from a to z. I'd do it again exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u203	You'd still do that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u204	That's exactly how I'd do it again. There's an important piece coming up. They are building blocks for a future climate agreement. You will hear that those we have asked as a cabinet to fully coordinate this with all local organisations, the Climate Council, have made agreements in accordance with normal procedures, the twenty-day period. When these documents come, the cabinet will have the opportunity to respond to them so that they can express that appreciation with that cabinet response. Then you hear that thought has been given: yes, there are reasons not to. Then I can say at that moment: boys, wait a minute, I'm walking into this street that I got, that pieces come with a reaction, and now I have to walk into a whole other street; I think it's something, I think it's unwise. That's what I said in that e-mail. Then they could have just gone through with it. The Climate Council could have said to PBL and CPB: we continue with this. That's what they seem to be doing at first. Then there is another fact; I do not know what has been decisive. A day after the mails of Nijpels of September 5th there is a new development, namely that the summary leads to a lot of questions and they don't make the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u205	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u206	I note that the PBL wanted to publish itself, but the Prime Minister says: I do not like that. I note that the Prime Minister says: my argument is that I would like to go outside with a cabinet response. Then it comes out without a cabinet response, but it happens that that came out very well of course after the main political debate here in the house...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u207	What debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u208	And the Prime Minister says, "I have freedom of speech." Yeah, he's got freedom of speech, but the point is he's gonna intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u209	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u210	The point is that you, the Prime Minister here, argue that he is protecting the Chamber by not sharing information on the most important issue at that time with the Chamber at the time it matters, namely the most important debate of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u211	But this is still...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u212	While if it suits the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u213	Easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u214	... just a day after the numbers are announced an entire press conference can be held. Then it's possible if it suits the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u215	Let's count to ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u216	First of all, I couldn't intervene. I didn't have that authority at all. I gave my opinion on 3 September. I couldn't intervene, because it was the Climate Council. You can also see it in the reaction of Nijpels. He says: "Well, nice that young successor of me to the VVD "I'll translate it homely for a while but here he can really get my back on it; I'll do it my way. Next, another fact will come to an end on 6 September. We do not know whether that was decisive, but I have given my opinion. I have expressed my view that I attach great importance to the normal procedures of reaction periods and so on and the organized debate in the Chamber and society. I'd do that again today. Unless we take motions here and say what Clover has proposed, which I would be very opposed to: from now on, bring everything out without cabinet juice. Well, that's gonna be great. I will come back to that proposal from Klaver, later in my response. I also think it is a sensible approach. I think it is a sensible approach to have a response period. That was the deal that was there. I couldn't intervene; I couldn't. I could have given my opinion. You can see once again that Nijpels says, "Find out."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u217	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u218	Nipples didn't say, "Find out." That's exactly the problem. Your partymate Nijpels then said, "Okay, we'll postpone it." That's exactly the problem. The Prime Minister mentioned big words: unmanageable. He's just saying, maybe we can bring it out right away, well, that sounds like a good plan, but then the country would become ungovernable. Is he still behind that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u219	Shall I explain why I come up with those words? We run here in the Netherlands in an extremely complex situation, with cabinets, with many parties, a fragmented political landscape and civil society organisations. We saw it today. Sometimes it still works after nine years and I'm very happy about that. Wouter Koolmees, the unions, the employers but also the support of GroenLinks and the Labour Party today. Sometimes it is possible to reach very broad agreements in society on difficult issues. It's extremely complex. In that very complex society to govern with such a fragmented political landscape, it is extremely important that if there are procedures, you adhere to them. It's like etiquette: who loves who opens the door, who drives or doesn't, all that sort of thing. It's clear. Tell your majesty to the king or not? It gives clarity, it gives clarity. This kind of agreement on deadlines for response to agencies, I am very attached to that. You can let go of all that stuff and say: it's convenient for us to send everything to the Chamber right now. Look, March 20th, there was another situation. Then came the request from the Chamber: we want those documents immediately. The cabinet understood that, too. That was a completely different context. Then there was a cabinet piece, not a building block. There was a cabinet piece. Elections were coming up. It was a very logical request from the Chamber to say that we want these documents immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u220	All right, I'm going to Mr. Klaver, Mrs. Marijnissen. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u221	I welcome the Prime Minister's answers. It is fair, but it also shows that there is a fundamental difference of opinion here. Is he really suggesting that he did the right thing, that he would do it again and that he hopes that his intervention has had a real impact on the Planning Office for the Environment? The question I asked in my first term was: whose information is this? The Prime Minister is standing here as the guardian of that information. He'll decide which time is most appropriate to share it with society. I would like to argue the opposite. It is precisely because of this politically extremely complex situation, precisely because of the fragmentation, that information generated independently by planning agencies should be shared directly with the Chamber. Of course, there's got to be a cabinet juice appreciation. Of course, there must be a debate after the cabinet has responded, but it does not stand in the way of anyone or anything else to then have views on what the Planning Bureau has published. I actually want to hear from the Prime Minister that he wants to move there, because this undermines people's trust in society because they feel that the cabinet, the Prime Minister, is trying to steer the debate in a certain direction. Whether it's true or not, I want it in the middle... In fact, I believe that the Prime Minister has the best intentions, but in this way it seems as if the debate is being steered in this way. That undermines trust and makes it more difficult to come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u222	I couldn't intervene. I couldn't do that at all. It was an assignment of the Climate Council to the agencies to work according to the schedule of 14 August, on the basis of which the cabinet had made its own planning to come forward with the cabinet response at the end of September. I thought that was a sensible planning. I understood that, because it took into account the normal response times. It was then thought for all kinds of reasons: we need to do it faster; we already publish it without cabinet response as soon as the documents are finished. I said: "This differs from everything that is usance in the contact between cabinet, offices, Chamber and society. I think that's unwise. I wouldn't want that." That was the view I gave on the basis that we were also working on the basis of a planning of the Climate Council which did... yes, Mr Klaver is getting annoyed now; I'm going through this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u223	Yes, this is a debate trick: "Mr. Clover gets annoyed." I'm not annoyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u224	...who did respect those deadlines. That's how it was. I am saying here that I would do that again because I am committed to those deadlines. Then I will answer Mr Klaver's question straight away: I think it would be unwise to take that deadline out. I don't think it's wise to take that reaction time out. That is a proposal made by Mr Klaver. He said, "You'll have to send those pieces to the Chamber right away." This means that the cabinet is listening to this debate and that you are asking us all questions that we cannot at that time respond to at all. When it comes to precarious societal issues, such as tackling climate change and how to combat it, and you do not do so wisely, it also has a major impact on the whole acceptance of that approach. Because then we will have a debate in which the government cannot react. What if that happened at the APB? It's not because I wanted to protect the Chamber, it's because I thought it was unwise. I have a view of that myself. I am not standing here as a kind of father protecting the Chamber from a debate in which I cannot respond. I myself think that is unwise, and so I really want to stick to that deadline. And in the end, the agencies decide for themselves, huh? They can also abolish it. There are no laws that say they have to handle 20 days, but it's the normal procedure now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u225	This is how we know the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister says, "Look, I can already see the irritation." The theater's starting to come a little bit. He says, "It's usance. We add a Cabinet Juice Appreciation to it all the time. That's use. We always do." I have just referred to the figures published by the PBL on Urgenda; for 20 weeks we have been waiting for a cabinet response. The figures that have been published on the climate agreement that has been reached; we are still waiting for a cabinet response. It is not used at all that there is instantly a cabinet response. Sometimes it is and sometimes it isn't. And now it just didn't work out. I'm not always asking you to send everything to the Chamber. There are reports that need to be heard and heard again. I understand the cabinet's saying it wants to respond. This is about figures from the PBL. The cabinet can look at that for hours, days, weeks; there is no change in that. They could be shared equally with the Chamber. Afterwards, the cabinet can write a press release, a cabinet response, and that debate can still take place. But this Chamber and society are mature enough to deal with figures, even if there is no accompanying note from this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u226	I think that's all wonderful and at your service, but I do have to deal with the arrangements that apply now. At the Central Planning Office, an investigation will always be published no later than 20 days after the CPB has completed its publication. Last week, the PBL stated in the NRC that the basic rule is that the report in question will be published within 20 days after the applicant has been handed over. So that is less definite than with the Central Planning Bureau; I have said that a few times. But they, too, have the 20-day deadline. The agreement on 14 August was also to use that deadline. Yes, well Mr. Klaver is waving his finger, but on 14 August that appointment was also made. On that basis, the cabinet has made its planning. I responded to that on 3 September by saying that I thought it wise to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u227	Since the Prime Minister felt that he had to protect us all, himself and society by ensuring that those figures were not published, I still have the modest advice to be careful what he is saying. At the Planning Office for the Environment they had no rules about that at all. They only indicated a few weeks ago that they are now going to follow the line that the CPB is also following. That was not the case at all. That was perhaps one of the problems, that there was not necessarily an agreement underneath. But you shouldn't pretend this has always been the use of the PBL. That was not the case. I also want the Prime Minister to take that back, because that's just not true. Two weeks ago, in response to questions from journalists, the PBL indeed indicated that this is the custom. That was not at all the case before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u228	I now quote from what the PBL itself has put out, namely that the PBL applies the rule that reports are published after delivery to the applicant within a period of no later than 20 days. I refer to the facts I have just mentioned. I have, of course, mentioned the CPB reports, but also those of PBL, the National Energy Reviews and the evaluation of legislation such as the Fertilisers Act. In addition, you often see that these deadlines are used. But apart from that, on 14 August it is the Climate Council that meets with the agencies to apply a response period which I found recognizable when I heard about it. From that they say at the beginning of September, or at the end of August, the discussion starts; that's what you see when you read the pieces: we're going to do it faster anyway. I hear of this on 3 September and I say: boys, bad plan; I think this is unwise. I couldn't intervene, but I was allowed to express my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u229	If you think it is so important that there should not be a PBL report without cabinet juice, and give your views and even talk about freedom of expression, how can it still come out on 28 September without a cabinet response?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u230	Yeah, that's very unfortunate, too. We weren't ready. Let's take a look at the planning they have. They would have done it all by September 13th. We would have had deadlines. You can see that the final report will not be completed until later in September. The whole hearing and rehearsal also lasts longer. That is not a reproach to anyone, but then the deadline for publication at the end of September was maintained and said: we will come a week later. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u231	About that PBL report, we're getting those things, aren't we? We do business with planning agencies, too. There is no hearing and hearing on the results of a model. During the transits, questions will be asked to you. That's what I was told. Then they come back to you about six times with questions like, "What does this mean?', "What does that mean?" And "how should we interpret it?" But once these models are turned, there's an outcome. The Prime Minister hangs his entire defense here on the fact that it is super-super important to always have a PBL report accompanied by a cabinet response. And at the end of September, the PBL will present a report without a cabinet response. It is therefore an opportunity argument that the Prime Minister is using, because if it had been so important, you would have caused it to be postponed for a week or the cabinet response to be made faster. You didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u232	I don't have any predictive powers, do I? This discussion will take place on 3 September. I hear they're planning to deviate from the planning we've made. I say, "I think this is unwise, because then we will be in the APB without a cabinet response. It deviates from the normal response periods, and I think you should stick to the normal deadlines. But I'm not going over it." Then it turns out that we do not make it to 13 September, for whatever reason. I just mentioned the possible reasons: my mail or the mail from Mommaas of September 6th, which says: boys, there are so many reactions to the concept that I need more time. It could be one of those two reasons, or it could be a combination. But in the end it will be at the end of September and we will not make it as a cabinet at the end of September. But I don't know on September 3rd that we won't be finished. I can't smell that, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u233	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u234	You don't believe this, do you? Surely the Prime Minister cannot build his defence here by saying that a planning agency cannot come out until there is a cabinet response and not before, because then the country becomes ungovernable? The Planbureau will then come forward with its accounts at the end of September and there will be no cabinet response. I find that unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u235	I didn't say that. I said that on 14 August it was agreed at the Climate Council to use the normal response times. When that was then departed from, I said that I thought it was unwise. I couldn't smell on 3 September that we wouldn't have finished it by the end of September either. The fact is that I based myself on the decisions of the Climate Council of 14 August, on which we had planned to publish our response at the end of September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u236	Is the Prime Minister prepared to respond to my request under Article 68 of the Constitution to share all the interview reports from those climate tables with us as Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u237	No. Wiebes is about to go into that. The answer is no, but I'll give you a backup in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u238	Then I'm going to have a look at you, Madam President. I'm the guardian of this house's constitutional integrity. I would like to ask you, on the basis of my constitutional right under Rule 68, to intercede, and to act on behalf of me and therefore on our behalf as a parliament and to ask the government again. We have this right and can see all the documents, unless the interests of the state or state security are at stake. That is not the case here. I would like to ask you, Madam President, if you will accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u239	Mr. Baudet. I attach the right to information of the members under Article 68 of the Constitution to which you referred. I have no particular constitutional position to enforce that. If that's what you really think, it's very important that we get a Chamber ruling on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u240	There is no need for a Chamber ruling under the Constitution. I can just do this as a Member of Parliament. The Prime Minister says he doesn't want to comply with that, so he doesn't want to follow my constitutional law. That is why I ask you to confirm this right of us as MPs to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u241	I have no particular position to enforce that. I can appeal to it, and the discussion about the right to information and the active information of the Chamber I also regularly run with the Cabinet. That is one of our priorities. But I don't have an instrument to force the cabinet to do that. If the Chamber wants me to do something about it, it's important that there be a vote in the Chamber by way of a motion. I see the Prime Minister has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u242	A suggestion, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u243	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u244	I say "no" now, and that will remain the answer, but there is also a basis for Wiebes in his pile. Maybe it's good to wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u245	We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u246	At this point, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u247	Yeah, at this point. Not only do I agree with Mr Baudet, but the Prime Minister may have noticed that on 5 February a motion was adopted in the First Chamber by my colleague Mr Van Hattem, with D66 being kind enough to support it and to assist a majority in calling on the government to make the reports of the meetings of the climate tables public. That motion has been adopted, so you have, in addition to the point of the Constitution, a motion adopted by the First Chamber. I would very much like to support this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u248	Yes. That's the way it should be, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u249	I refer to the answer that Mr Wiebes will give in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u250	Okay, continue. Oh, no, you've already been. Was that your point, Mr. Baudet? Then I'll go to Mrs Thieme's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u251	I think Mr Sienot was even earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u252	No, you were.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u253	I just wanted to talk about the point that the Prime Minister didn't want the Planning Office for the Environment to come up with that press conference. What has not yet been discussed is the role of Minister Wiebes' Ministry of EZK, who felt it needed to come out. In fact, he feared that otherwise the impression would arise that it would be kept under the hat. Shouldn't the Prime Minister have listened better to Minister Wiebes? Now we have the impression that it has been kept under wraps. My second question is: if the Prime Minister thought it was so very important to give that appreciation, why does Minister Wiebes think it is okay and responsible to release those pieces of PBL? Has that been a discussion between you two?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u254	No, not directly, as far as I remember. In a cabinet it happens that we do not always agree on everything immediately. Well, if we step outside, we'll agree again. Yeah, guys, if you're working on a team, that's normal. Wiebes found at that time that there were arguments to depart from that planning. You can do that too! I didn't think so when I heard about it on September 3rd. That trial had been going on for a few days. So you can see the irritation in the pieces. A press conference had already been called. And Nipples, I totally get it. There is nothing to reproach him for, quite the contrary. He's doing a hell of a lot of work on this whole project. He's upset that I'm interfering. The arguments are all in the pieces. You can also see how EZK looks at it. I assume it's also the arguments Wiebes supported. He also agreed with my view of sticking to the planning on which the cabinet now bases itself in writing its own response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u255	The Prime Minister has led us to believe that it would be irresponsible to bring out the documents, because it would make the country ungovernable. Minister Wiebes did not think that was an objection at all and he is a trade minister. He knew exactly what it was about. I do not understand where the Prime Minister has obtained the knowledge and the impression that it would be irresponsible if the Minister of Trade did not see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u256	The first quote wasn't just about this case. That was about the question, as Jesse Klaver also proposes tonight, to completely refrain from response periods. I find this unwise to do in a scattered, shrewd political landscape, in which it is becoming increasingly difficult to bring social and political coalitions together to achieve major social breakthroughs. It's a little etiquette. How do you relate to each other as Chamber and government to, for example, planning agencies? It has far-reaching consequences to throw agreements on reaction periods overboard. That's what I'm warning you about. This does not mean that every case, if you would do so, will immediately lead to a decline of the Netherlands. No, of course not. But in general, that's a risk if you threw away those reaction periods, and that's what I pointed out in the press conference on Wednesday. We really shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u257	The Prime Minister has tried to prevent the unwise actions of the Minister of EZK. Then we'll know about how the roles are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u258	This is so fucking lame to me! Through the WOB, of course, what takes place in the intimacy of decision-making in a cabinet, but also in municipalities and provinces, is becoming more and more apparent. That's fine, too. Part of that is also that you see that it's all people who have discussions and don't say very decently to each other all day: "Oh, he has more stripes than I do, so I'll do what he says." This is an incredibly recalcitrant man, who has his own views. That's why I love him. At this point, I didn't agree. That's okay, isn't it? You may disagree at some point! So it turns out. I said that on September 3rd. All these things are coming out more and more through the WOB, but we have to deal with them maturely. If that immediately leads to statements like "Oh, look at them, they had a fight," then that's not a correct conclusion, because we didn't have a fight; I didn't agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u259	I hear the Prime Minister speak with great passion about the etiquette of the lead times. What doesn't bother me is that I then notice that the cabinet doesn't stick to those twenty days. That's too bad. If you really want to let etiquette live, you have to try to do everything you can to keep it. Mr Klaver gave us some examples of what we do not follow. In this particular case too, it eventually came later. Can we agree that the word "target" in future means that the cabinet too will do everything in its power to live up to those twenty days?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u260	So that's part of it. I agree with Mr Sienot. So that's part of it. I took the word "etiquette" out of the sky because I'm looking for a comparison with how you interact with each other in social traffic, because it's already so complex on the street and there's a lot of danger in traffic and so on if you don't. This also applies in politics, but figuratively: bringing complex coalitions together by using etiquette, predictable behavior over and over again. I agree with him. That's what we have to do. We're not sacred either, but I think we should try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u261	Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we do not yet fully adhere to this etiquette and that we really need to change it? Can he explain why this has not happened so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u262	What specific file does he have in mind now? I'm afraid there may be more than one, but which one would he have liked to have seen me explain?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u263	Let me give you an example of what we are talking about tonight. It would be sent in combination on September 28th. That was important to us. A complete story, the complete picture and it didn't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u264	No. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u265	Urgenda has already been mentioned, I think that is a strong example. We attach great importance to the speed with which this is taking place. We're not doing it. While I have just heard the Prime Minister speak with great passion about those twenty days and the importance of that lead time. "Let's do it then!', He said. Why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u266	I can do a post mortem now at the end of September. There is a slight mitigating circumstance: the final report itself eventually came later than 13 September, because there was still consultation with the tables on the basis of the concept. That is also the reason why Mommaas said on 6 September: we will not make 13 September at all. That's a very small confession. If I point at that with one finger, I point at myself with three fingers. All I can say is that we need to improve our lives. I am not now able to do a full post mortem on the reason why it did not succeed at the end of September. But it didn't work out, and that's not good. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u267	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u268	The power of this Chamber is as always that in the interruptions almost all things are mentioned. I'm just gonna take a quick look at what I haven't treated. Mr Sienot has just asked the question I already had in my pile. So I answered that, too. Then the independence of the planning agencies. Like I said, that's what I'm going to do. At least, there's a lead for the Prime Minister's planning offices. I don't really know why I'm doing that and not the Secretary of State, but it's with me. That clue is very comprehensive. A number of clues describe very precisely how we regulate independence. This is an answer to Mrs Dik-Faber's question on how to guarantee the independence of the planning agencies. I'd like to highlight lead four there. It states that a board member does not provide the planning office with any information on the methods of analysis to be used by the planning agencies or on the content of the reports of the planning office. Note 4 is very essential. Note 5 of this set of instructions deals with the importance of an independent committee which monitors the scientific quality and societal relevance of the work of the planning agencies. Anyway, there are some that say how to make sure that planning agencies can do their job independently. I think that's essential. These, I think, are the two most eye-catching. Mr Klaver asked about the CO levy in March of this year. Maybe I didn't quite understand his question. Then I have to come back to that in the second term. I'm trying to answer what I think he means. On 13 March, the cabinet responded to the draft climate change agreement. The Court was further informed by letter of 4 April on the conditions under which the levy must be met and on the process envisaged by the cabinet. It was about the need for a sensible CO levy, which would not lead to economic loss. PBL and CPB have been asked to make the credit transfers and we aim to inform you of this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u269	That is probably not what Mr Klaver wanted to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u270	No, I'm afraid so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u271	No. It was an extremely interesting answer, for which I thank you, but this is not the question I asked. During the General Political Reviews it was about CO-tax and about the plans of the climate tables. We then received a reply from the Prime Minister in response to this question, which I looked into in the Acts, that we really had to wait for the bill to be passed on. That led me to assume that the pass-through wasn't there yet, but there was. It's just that there wasn't any cabinet juice yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u272	You mean last year's APB?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u273	Yeah, last year's ABP. My point is: I think it is important that we be honest with each other. It can be defended if you say it's there, but we don't have a response yet. If you're gonna pretend we're all gonna have to wait until those calculations are there, when they were already there... I think the Prime Minister should have been more clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u274	Okay. That was another question you asked besides the CO question. The problem that arose was that the PBL would be ready in the planning period before the APB. We would then be working on a response that would come at the end of September. The fact is that when the APB took place there was no concept of the PBL. What was lying there were lyrics that still had to be commented on. So it wasn't finished yet. I checked in the Acts what I said about that. I didn't say anywhere, there's no pieces. Or: I'm fine. I didn't say that either. I've just checked that out. That's an afterburner about what I said during the ABP. If I was unclear about that, I should have said it more clearly. At that time there was no concept of the PBL ready for us to respond to. That was the original planning. That is also very explainable, because the PBL received so many comments on the basis of the summary... see also the email from Mommaas of 6 September.. that it would not have reached the date of 13 September at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u275	I wonder whether the Prime Minister, in his role as responsible portfolio holder for the protection of the independence of the planning agencies, believes that this independence extends to the decision on the date of publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u276	One hundred percent once. It is also true that the agencies themselves can decide to deviate from that practice. Again, with the CPB this is a bit tighter in the regulation than with the PBL. The PBL uses it as a use and with the CPB it is a bit tighter in the regulations. But they finally decide when to publish. And they can also deviate from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u277	So he has to defend that independence. How does he find it, then, as a ruler, not with a direct legal designation but by the weight of his function, expressed by his department, shows that it is very undesirable for a planning agency to actually publish? Isn't that contrary to designation 4 under 3.1, independence? It's his job to guard that independence, isn't it? He just said: this is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u278	No, I don't. When I said that, I based myself on the agreements made on 14 August to apply the normal response periods. Nor is it the case that the agencies then said: let us deviate from that. It was ultimately the client, the Climate Council, who discussed whether you should not come to another publication date. I couldn't find any of that, because the client, being the Climate Council, decides that. I thought that was unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u279	But the situation was that you can deduce from the correspondence that the client, Mr Nijpels, on behalf of the Climate Council, and the contractor, the independent planning agency whose freedom of publication was to be monitored, agreed on the date of publication 13 September. Then there was an intervention from this Prime Minister. We can't see that any different, can we? He just said that that's freedom of speech, but I think that's one of the most remarkable excuses I've heard if you let your department tell you that you think it's very undesirable. I'm fine with freedom of speech if you write a poem or an angry letter. But there was something else going on here. You have ordered your department to intervene here through the M-staff. That's what happened. You thus entered, without any title, in the relationship between the client and the contractor, while it was your task to guard independence. You didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u280	I very much disagree with that, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u281	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u282	Exactly, but if you understand, I don't understand the question. But without fooling around, I really disagree with that. What are the facts? On August 14th it was agreed how we would do this. On that basis, we have started a whole process. Fact number two: I didn't give a clue on September 3rd. I gave my opinion when I heard it and said: this surprises me. It would be wise to stick to the planning as it was. We'll be at the APB in a moment with documents the cabinet hasn't been able to respond to. Let us stick to the deadlines as they were. I didn't give you a clue; I can't do that at all. At that time, both the Climate Council and the agencies could have decided to stick to their intention: a press conference on 13 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u283	If a board member exerts pressure on a planning agency and the client to set the date of publication differently than they have agreed with each other, you should see that as an indication within the meaning of the arrangement. Oh, yeah. If a clue is a service order, that whole arrangement is nothing. The point is not to interfere with how such an agency conducts the investigation, with what it says, but also with when they publish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u284	But that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u285	The Prime Minister did so on the assumption that he was guarding another appointment, but he had nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u286	I disagree with that. Why do I disagree with that? Because Asscher leaves out the context. The context is that an agreement was made on 14 August on how we would do that. Then it is very strange that when I hear about it on 3 September and I think it is a really bad plan, I am going to say: guys, I'm not going to like that at all. There's been a deal. Appointments that fit within the normal arrangements between offices and cabinet about how to do this. In this case, the Climate Council used the normal deadlines because they were the client. Within that context, we functioned. So I think it is entirely justified that I had an opinion on this. I also think it is entirely in line with my duty to monitor the independence of the agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u287	Very briefly, because a number of times have come back to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u288	One other point, because I just want to get this straight. The Prime Minister says we had a plan. He falls back on that every time. It was planned that the publication would be by the end of September and that this would also enable the government's juice valuation to be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u289	I heard an observation, but what is the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u290	I just wanted to ask if it's true. Did I get this right? The Prime Minister refers each time to the planning of 14 August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u291	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u292	Is this part of the planning that the PBL would go out at the end of September and that would also bring out the cabinet juice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u293	Yes, there is an e-mail from EZK to Nijpels in which Pieter Boot mentions the trits: August 27th, adoption September 10th, publication with cabinet response by the end of September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u294	That is interesting, because I read in those pieces, in an email from Monday 27 August, that it is indicated to admit that the appreciation comes only early October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u295	I don't recognize them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u296	I can give it to you through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u297	I will come back to that in second term. I can't place it so soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u298	This is an important point. The Prime Minister has a whole speech here in which he says that there was really a plan and that plan was that we would react at the end of September and that it was still October because the PBL took a little longer. It just says here that it was already known in August that this appreciation would only come in October and that that was also the reason to say: let it come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u299	Throughout this period you see two arguments in the documents why they say: you should publish earlier. The first argument is the risk of leakage. That comes second in the order of time. The other argument is: the time to react is very tight. That turns out to be the case in the end, because the end of September was not reached. Both on 24 August, when planning the cabinet then, and on 7 September, when the cabinet again talks about it, we agree that we aim to have it done on 28 September. I can't exactly place that October date. So, yeah, it's true it came into the discussion. You can actually see that in the WOB-pieces from August 27th. It says that things are getting very tight and, apart from the danger of leaks, is it not wise to publish them earlier? This leads me to say on 3 September that it is unwise and we say again on 7 September that we are simply seeking a response at the same time as the release of the documents on 28 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u300	I now have a copy of the document which states that at least the Minister of Economic Affairs expects that the cabinet juice is not ready until the beginning of October. That's August 27th. Why is this so important? You could take it off as a detail or say: what does this mean? But the central point of this Prime Minister's speech is that all this planning was already in place and, as he says here, it is very unfortunate that the PBL report will come out at the end of September without the appreciation of the cabinet. If I read those e-mails correctly, we already knew it would come in October. If it was so important that it would be at the same time, the Prime Minister would have ensured that the PBL reaction would also be there at the beginning of October. But it didn't. He only intervened when it was about Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u301	No, no. These are documents contained in the WOB request. You see two dominant lines in that whole piece. That's: apart from the whole leak risk, are you gonna make it at all at the end of September? Eventually, we won't make it. So it turns out. Those are the two lines that are in the entire file. On 24 August, on the basis of the planning which we heard from the Climate Council of 14 August, the cabinet said: we will reach the end of September. We repeat this on 7 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u302	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u303	Mr President, I think, unless someone comes forward angry right now, that I have answered all the questions. Minister Wiebes has a few more questions, including the immediate release of all documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u304	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u305	Mr. Chairman. There are a few questions left behind. Mr Stoffer asked if the climate agreement would come in June. Yes, it is. That's the bet. They're working hard on that. He's asking if we can move it forward for two weeks. I don't know what he's talking about for two weeks, but the planning is the planning, and we're working hard on it. Mr Stoffer also asks, if I understand his question correctly, whether the country would have changed very much if we had seen it go out instead of the 28th on the 13th. In all honesty, I think the effect would have been lost in the ripples of world history and that the country had not changed very much, but the procedures are the procedures. Mr Sienot asked why a different publication date would be discussed between the Climate Council and EZK at the end of August. Should I keep going? I see Mr Asscher standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u306	Finish your sentence, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u307	I'll start with the next question. Perhaps we should make it easy for Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u308	Good. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u309	I hear the Minister say: the planning is the planning. That kind of clear sentences that have an internal logic in them are nice. We now know that these are essential for the Prime Minister, that he will guard them with his life. What's this planning? When are we going to see planning agency figures in this case? There's a schedule. You mentioned June. We live in June. So there's a schedule. I'd like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u310	There's the stake to get it done in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u311	Yeah, but we've just seen that planning is very close, aren't we? There are often very precise agreements underneath that. What's the plan? When will it be on the Council of Ministers? When are these planning agency figures gonna be here? We are looking forward to it. You're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u312	The stakes are June, we're doing our best, and if you expect me to schedule a precise hour-to-hour schedule, you overestimate me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u313	Certainly not from hour to hour, but I understand that it really goes at date level. Is there a date-level schedule? What Council of Ministers are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u314	There are all aspirations and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u315	Tell me! What are these aspirations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u316	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u317	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u318	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Waarom zou ik m'n interne ...]] Then I'm gonna tell you how it might turn out. People are gonna think they're coming off the hook. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u319	From the hook? No, we've just seen that such planning...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u320	I'll keep the pressure on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u321	We have just seen in the entire division of the Prime Minister that monitoring the planning is an essential task of the Prime Minister, rather than agreements between the principal and the contractor of an independent agency. Now the Minister says here: the planning is the planning. So there's a schedule. I ask politely, but on the basis of the same constitutional title as others here: if there is a planning, I would very much like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u322	Well, the most concrete form of the planning I can give Mr Asscher is that the commitment is to finish it in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u323	Just to be sure, we will not be able to argue about this at a later stage: this plan also provides for the publication of the transfer of a possible independent planning agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u324	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u326	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u327	Mr. Chairman. Mr Sienot asked why a different date of publication was discussed between the Climate Council and EZK. That was the end of August. First of all, I am not widely known for my strong views on procedures, and the PBL decides, but the team also had some eyebrow frons about whether we would finish the cabinet juice in time. Furthermore, there was also a risk assessment that pieces could leak. That is why another date and another regime has been discussed. In the end, it was decided not to deviate from it. Mr Baudet asked, by appealing to the Constitution, whether all reports from the climate tables could be sent to the House of Representatives. It is true what Mr Wilders says. On February 5th, a motion was passed by the Upper House. I have also written back a letter to this effect, with the willingness to make the reports public as soon as possible after a climate agreement has been concluded, in so far as there is no objection from those concerned. In fact, the parties concerned had a contribution without having to rely on that disclosure in advance. So there is some care in this, but I will try to be as open as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u328	So the Prime Minister's no is actually a yes, provided there is a final agreement first and, two, the parties concerned have no objection to it. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u329	It is a no today and it is a yes as soon as it is ready, in so far as those concerned do not object.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u330	Can you explain why this can't be done until that agreement has been reached? Why is that determining the disclosure of the considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u331	Firstly, all those involved have had their input without expecting it to become public. They could object not only to what they said, but also to when. Furthermore, publication prior to a climate agreement does not help decision-making. That's the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u332	That's like sending out the debates we're having here after there's been a vote on the decisions we're making in such a debate. That's weird, isn't it? That's not reasoning, is it? The whole point of publicising is that we can see what the trade-offs have been, and we can find something about that. If you first present the chord and it is accepted, those conversation reports are mustard after the meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u333	That doesn't make any sense. If there's a climate agreement, it goes to the Chamber first. It is the Chamber that finally discusses this with the government. That comes out of the laws, which also come through this Chamber. It is therefore wise to do so when there is a climate agreement, read: a plan of stakeholders and the government to achieve the objectives. Every Member of Parliament can then look into what preceded reports, what calculations have been made about them by the planning agencies and what other documents are included. And then the assessment by this Chamber and also by Mr Baudet can come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u334	Ah, so not after it's accepted, but when it's presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u335	The moment the climate agreement arrives. This is then discussed by the Chamber, but when it comes out what the piece looks like, it is of course only an agreement when all the legislation is also by the Chamber. That includes the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u336	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u337	Sorry, I don't quite understand. What exactly does there have to be before you say, okay, I'll give you all those interview reports. First, you say that this must be the climate agreement itself. I think I saw something that bears that name a few months ago, a while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u338	That was a draft climate agreement, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u339	So you mean the final agreement and also the legislation that follows it. What exactly is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u340	No, I mean that the document which we intend to send out in June and which is submitted to the Chamber will be accompanied by the accounts, where they exist, and by the reports, where they have been approved by the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u341	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u342	Ah, so I conclude that we can actually expect those interview reports before the end of this season, so before the start of the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u343	If we succeed in concluding that climate agreement, yes. And the stakes are June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u344	I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u345	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u346	You say: if the parties concerned agree. To what extent are you already in the process of asking these parties if they agree? Do they get the right to leave certain things out? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u347	I do not know exactly how the procedure goes, but of course those involved have something to do with it. For once again, they have brought their input at a time when they did not know that the reports would become public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u348	Just a little while longer, because this is really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u349	Yes, very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u350	Yes, very important. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u351	Go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u352	It's only a few weeks before the recess. You say that before the start of the recess we can expect a concept of the final climate agreement and therefore also the discussion reports from the tables, except that some of those who would have been there would have liked to have deleted certain things from those reports. Well, then, you must be already in the process of approaching those parties to ask what they want out of it. There's no other way, is there? You're not gonna get that done in a couple of weeks, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u353	I deal with a lot of things in the department, but I don't do this procedure myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u354	Okay, then I would like to ask under Rule 68 if you can send me any information on this process. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u355	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u356	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u357	This is just an internal procedure. This is not information in the sense of the Constitution at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u358	This is really about the way in which the information we want to see will be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u359	That manner shall be made public as soon as it is public. You'll see exactly what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u360	Then you can already tell us how these parties are being approached, whether they already have those interview reports, whether they're marking things out and whether they're already sending them back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u361	I have no idea, but the information comes to you in the form of the reports on the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u362	That's absurd, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u363	Yes, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u364	So now 25 different parties are all reading those interview reports. They're all marking things out. That comes in a big pile and then a large, completely white document is made of it. Is that what we're supposed to imagine?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u365	You have great administrative imagination. This is being handled. It's coming to the room. That's the information the government makes available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u366	I think you made this point, Mr Baudet. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u367	I'm actually curious what the rest of the Chamber is like about this. I think this is a very important point, really a major point. I would like to suspend for a few minutes to see if there is a realistic way of voting to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u368	What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u369	The point of order is: Article 68 Constitution. There's no need for a motion for that at all. We in the Chamber can simply request this. We cannot settle for this very vague story. So I would like to suspend for a few minutes to discuss this with a number of spokesmen and to see if my great surprise about this process is shared by the rest of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u370	You may make a point of order to suspend briefly in order to discuss this matter. But when it comes to giving the Chamber the opportunity to make a judgment on this matter, the second deadline will allow us to table a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u371	But this is gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u372	Excuse me for a second. Then it is up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u373	We have the right to request a roll-call vote. That is an individual right; you do not need a majority. The same applies to Article 68. That's an individual right. What I am about to ask the spokesmen in that suspension is not whether they agree with me in substance, but whether they support me as a Member of Parliament in exercising an individual right to information, which I will always support from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u374	How short do you want to suspend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u375	Three, three and a half minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u376	Does anyone object to a three-minute suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u377	If there's a need for a three-minute suspension, that's fine with me. I would like to say that I support all colleagues if they want information. That also makes sense to me. In the suspension, we'll talk about that. Then we're gonna tell each other we're gonna stick together. The Minister shall reply and provide the information he wishes to provide. We can ask for information with a motion, and if we're not satisfied, we have the ultimate means to send someone away. That's the trust rule, and that's how it works. I'm fine with suspending, but this will be about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u378	Good. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u379	I think the Minister was speaking, but I see Mr Baudet at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u380	I have been thoroughly supported by fellow Members of Parliament and I feel strengthened in tabling a second-term motion to strengthen my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u381	Thank you. I see the Minister has finished his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u382	I just understood that we have a right to information... Mr President, I have one more question. The rulers are entitled to know for themselves who is going to answer him, but I actually wanted to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs. On 31 August, your documents deal with the question of how to proceed with the publication of the PBL transfer. Under point 3, it says: "We would like to discuss with you whether you want to postpone the publication or whether you want to continue the publication for the APB." The following sentence is particularly relevant: "In all cases, it seems that the credit transfer will no longer be published at the same time as the appreciation. This departs from the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 24 August." Did you discuss this with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u383	I don't remember talking to the Prime Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u384	I don't remember!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u385	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u386	Mr President, I am going to ask you again, otherwise I will have to ask the Prime Minister whether this information has been shared with him. It is quite relevant, because he was just arguing: unfortunately, it didn't go together anymore; I postponed it, because the appreciation had to come together with the PBL overbooking. Now we see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has already said on 31 August: choose what you do, for the APB or after the APB, but it is no longer the same as that appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u387	I just gave that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u388	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u389	You see...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u390	I like this picture: Bert and Ernie.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u391	You're gonna stand there, aren't you? No, no, no, no. Sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u392	Bert and Ernie.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u393	Bert and Ernie?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u394	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u395	And then it's still Bègt and Ernie. I just gave the answer. You can see that in the whole mail exchange. We didn't talk about it, as far as I remember. In my opinion, I did not even hear about the idea of publishing it before until 3 September. You can see through all that mail exchange and through all those pieces in the WOB request that there are two arguments why it is said that you should publish earlier: first, "are you gonna make it to the end of September at all?" And, two, the leak hazard. Those are the two dominant arguments mentioned in all those WOB documents. It's also taken into account. I have just said that we said in the Cabinet on Friday 7 September following the Council of Ministers on 24 August: yes, there is a risk, but we are going to keep to publication at the end of September. It's true that that didn't work out in the end. We've talked about that before, but that's how the procedure went. At EZK there was the care that you can see in those pieces if we would make it. This is also one of the arguments within EZK and the Climate Council to publish earlier. That's exactly the discussion you'll encounter in the WOB papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u396	I'm not talking about the mail exchange. I am talking about the signing of the Ministerial Committee on Economy and Climate and the economic pieces of 11 September plus Climate regular. It doesn't say that they're already afraid it's not gonna be made, namely to release the appreciation at the same time as the PBL figures, because it just says: it's just not gonna work anymore to bring it out together, whether it's published for Prinsjesdag or after.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u397	And so I say in reply that these risks were discussed in the cabinet meeting on 7 September. It has also been said that this discussion took into account whether we would reach the end of September. That is where the agreement is made that we will come up with a response at the end of September, in accordance with our schedule. The official advice is: pay attention, because you're taking a risk. You don't just have to make sure that those pieces are there, you also have to make sure that you've tuned them into the coalition. And you might not even make it by the end of September. We finally decide on 7 September that we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u398	I'd like to ask the Minister to take the piece and read with me. I can read it to you. It doesn't say, "There's a risk we won't make it." It says here literally and I quote: in all cases it seems to be a fact that the transfer will no longer be published at the same time as the appreciation, and this differs from the decision of the Council of Ministers of 24 August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u399	"Looks like a given." I tell you that on 7 September we decide to do everything we can to achieve it by the end of September. Again, this is really from a to z a consistent story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u400	Thank you. Then we are at the end of the Chamber and I give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u401	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for the debate. I thought it was a good debate, because you really see a difference of opinion on what the Prime Minister's job should be. Is he the keeper of all the information that comes along to ensure that there is a good debate or not? My firm conviction is that this is not his job. I really think that the Prime Minister should not send information from planning agencies on the date of publication. That's up to the planning agencies themselves. It is good that he takes a brave stand here and says: that is my job! In doing so, we see in what way he is fulfilling his democratic duty and his duties. It is his choice, but I really think that we in the Netherlands should do it differently and with the same arguments. We must do so precisely because of the fragmentation and precisely because of the complex political landscape. You can't just look inside your coalition now, but the Prime Minister knows that like no other. You're gonna have to look much wider for support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u402	Do you have a motion, Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u403	Sure, and I still have time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u404	Then I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u405	I still have time to submit him, too, I see, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u406	Bad for the environment!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u407	Yeah, that too. That's why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to make any requests to planning agencies to postpone the publication of completed credit transfers until a cabinet juice valuation has been made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Wilders, Mr Stoffer, Mr Baudet and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u408	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u409	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister gave a review of his own performance. He said this was perfectly consistent, from a to z. Then you try to see what the lessons we all learn are. Lesson one: when the Prime Minister says that the country becomes completely out of control, he means that it is a matter of etiquette; that is important, keeping the door open for each other, otherwise it will be a mess. Interesting to know if the Prime Minister uses words like this. And two: when it comes to stopping a publication of an independent agency, which is called very undesirable, since sending your departments to it is a matter of freedom of expression. Mr. Chairman. It's about climate policy. Everyone knows how sensitive it is. Everyone knows how important it is that the facts are on the table and that you have an open debate about them, in the Chamber and in society. Our objection is not at all the scratches in the Prime Minister's face. Our objection is the blind spot that he has developed because he has been sitting here for so long that he keeps two things more and more difficult apart: the political importance of this cabinet, of this Prime Minister, to get through a debate, and the general interest of having an open democratic debate; the political interest of his party, the VVD; we have heard it; everyone else is crazy; and the importance of the country, which serves that the Prime Minister puts that party's interest in the background and is honest about what he does and what he doesn't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u410	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Special: this Prime Minister says he wants to protect, protect and protect the Chamber, in fact protect our country from becoming ungovernable, and he does so by not sharing the information with the Chamber. That is a very special reasoning. This evening's debate showed that the prime minister's main argument not to share that information was that he felt it was undesirable for that information, those figures, to be sent without reaction from the cabinet. We know how it turned out by now. That information, these figures, has now been sent without reaction from the cabinet, but after the General Reviews, the most important political debate of the year here in this house. Mr. Chairman. Something that's crooked, you can't speak straight, and the Prime Minister really didn't manage to do that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u412	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u413	Thank you, Mr President. The Chamber received the information about the costs of all these climate terror measures only after the General Reviews, not before but after. The numbers have been muffled away; professionally, okay, but they've been muffled away, just like before with the receipts, with the asylum criminals, with the energy bill: muffled away. That's what this cabinet and this prime minister are good at. The intervention, the resistance, Prime Minister Rutte, did not give us the documents. It's worse, he says at an interruption from me in the first term even that he hopes it's because of him. It's because of him, but he, this Prime Minister, hopes so, he's proud of it. The Netherlands has a Prime Minister who hopes that it is because of him that the Chamber has not received important information on climate costs for the most important debate of the year that the Chamber holds. That's unprecedented and without any embarrassment. If Mr Nijpels wishes to publish the documents at some point on 13 September, one week before that, on 5 September late in the evening, he will send a sad email to the Prime Minister or to Economic Affairs that he will not accept it, that he will oppose it. And when I ask what happened in that half day, because I want to be open about it, the Prime Minister says, "You don't get it, you don't get it." Mr. Chairman. I see I have to finish. We've been paged, and the PVV won't accept that. The VVD's heel lickers may be, but the PVV isn't. Enough chasing by this prime minister, enough chasing through this cabinet. Therefore, the next motion of censure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber was withheld information regarding the transit of the provisional climate agreement prior to the General Political Reviews last year by the Prime Minister;]] [[considers that this is unacceptable;]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-330]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u414	I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u415	Mr President, thank you. In the run-up to this debate, I have spoken with several people about this. They all said: this seems a bit like The Hague is talking about The Hague. That's how this whole debate seems to me. We're not helping the climate with this. Parties who think that sincerely have missed their chance tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u416	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u417	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister, as well as the Minister for Economic Affairs, have tried very hard today to answer the questions raised. I found the Prime Minister's attitude very striking today. Very persistent and convinced of his own equal. That is the same indignant way we saw in the debate on dividend taxation. Well, that doesn't promise much good. Mr. Chairman. A cat in a tight spot makes weird jumps. My group finds it very striking that from the night of 5 September to the afternoon of 6 September nothing could have happened, so that the PBL decides to go along with what the Prime Minister really wants. We cannot escape the impression that nothing really happened, which means that we can do nothing but support the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u418	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u419	Mr. Chairman. I was still doubting whether I was going to say anything, because Mrs Mulder has already summarised it very well. I hope that we can quickly talk about content and climate plans and that we can get to work on the problems of the people at home. 'Cause I don't think a Hague discussion like this is gonna get anybody anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u420	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u421	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, my group still has the impression that the Prime Minister simply didn't want a debate on the climate figures during his good news show after Princess Day, despite the fact that he shows here with all the administrative tricks how he supposedly legitimized himself to lift it over Princess Day and the General Political Reviews. But a climate crisis can't be covered up. This sliding and sliding is characteristic of this "greenest cabinet ever." In my first term, I have indicated that there are gradually increasing numbers of people in the world who are fighting against and against governments who remain confused and refuse to do anything for the climate. I referred to the British Parliament which declared the climate emergency. I think that our Parliament should do the same. Tomorrow's the accounting debate. Then my colleague Lammert van Raan will be very happy to discuss this further with the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u422	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u423	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Agnes Mulder and I are running a game tonight who has the shortest input. I do not know who won the first term, but the second has won Mrs Mulder, I say in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u424	I hope you do that more often!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u425	That was also my encouragement, Mr President. Actually, my main question was what has been the result for the Netherlands of those fifteen days that may or may not have been affected, I don't think, when I hear it that way. I thought it was a wonderful answer: lost. If there is anything, it falls away in the ripples of time. That's pretty much what you said. I'm guessing that's what's gonna happen with this evening, too. We will therefore not support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u426	I think Mrs. Agnes Mulder won it. Thank you. I am going to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u427	Mr. Chairman. Better recording agreements with the calculators can help greatly in the future of the climate agreement process. More clarity is needed. We are therefore pleased that the cabinet itself wants to start working on keeping to the 20-day response period. We look forward to a debate on the content of the forthcoming climate agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u428	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u429	Members of staff, Madam President, I would like to make two motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we need to be fully informed;]] [[Whereas the policy suggestions of the climate tables have far-reaching (financial) implications for the Dutch population;]] [[noting that a government commander was present at all the climate tables;]] [[whereas reports should therefore be made;]] [[calls on the Government, pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution, to:]] [[share all interview reports from the discussions at the climate tables with the Chamber;]] [[make public all contacts of directors and/or ministries with the Chairman of the Climate Change Council, Mr Nijpels;]] [[to make public all contacts of directors and/or ministries with the PBL with regard to the transition of the Climate Agreement from 10 July to 28 September 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Parliament is unable to carry out its monitoring task without being able to assess which interests have been placed and weighed at the climate tables;]] [[whereas this process should also be transparent for Dutch citizens;]] [[Considering that on 5 February 2019 the First Chamber adopted a motion calling on the government to publish all reports of the climate tables meetings and all reports of the global Climate Council;]] [[noting that this motion has still not been carried out because the documents could not be made public until the climate agreement is final;]] [[Whereas it is essential to be able to see the reports before the final conclusion of the agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the said motion, which has already been adopted by the First Chamber, for the publication of the final climate agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-331]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u430	Actually, I wanted to say something, but I'll do it another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u431	That's how I know you! I'm sure I'll see you again with a story. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u432	Mr. Chairman. The first motion I'm not suggesting. The situation is that the planning agencies themselves are responsible for choosing the date of publication. There is only a time limit awarded by the planning agencies before being made public. That gives the cabinet until that date the opportunity to present the response, the appreciation, simultaneously. I believe that the implementation of this motion prevents a meaningful and substantive debate on the basis of facts. I'll repeat it again. We have a fragmented electoral landscape. It is extremely complicated to bring together social coalitions of political groups here and in the First Chamber and civil society organisations to achieve major social breakthroughs. See what has worked with pensions today after a very long negotiation. I'm so glad you did. Unfortunately, that is becoming more and more complicated. I do not think that implementing this motion will contribute to the more frequent emergence of such social coalitions, so I am really against this motion. The motion in part No. 330, I'm not sure. For the motions in part No. No 331 and part No I would like to refer to Mr Baudet's in-depth discussion with the Minister for Economic Affairs, who referred to the motion adopted in the Upper Chamber. That motion goes a long way. He has also responded to that motion which goes very far. He has just explained all this; I do not need to repeat it here. I think it is wise to implement this motion from the First Chamber, with the generous commitment made by Minister Wiebes of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I think this is going way too far and way too far, so I'm deceiving both of those motions. But I'm not going over it. Mr Baudet is coming to me, but I do not have the right to vote here. He has to convince the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u433	Very briefly, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u434	It's just a little bit of language. The Prime Minister just said: the commitment made by Minister Wiebes to carry out that motion. By that, you mean the motion of the First Chamber I referred to. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u435	He gave a response and he outlined it in his first term. Let me explain very precisely how he intends to carry out that motion from the First Chamber. So he does, did I understand?I also listened when the climate tables are all ready, and he asks the participants: can I bring all this out? Those are often policy-confidential conversations, so people should have the opportunity to say: I do not feel that the whole world sees what I have said on that subject; I assumed that those conversations were confidential. Within that context, he's going to carry out that motion. That goes very far, not too far, but very far. Mr Baudet really wants to go two steps further. I would say: let us first make sure that this motion is properly implemented. So I am against these two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u436	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-05-tweedekamer-13.u437	We are going to vote on one motion by Mr Wilders, a motion of censure.
