ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the attacks in Utrecht and Christchurch, New Zealand. I would like to welcome everyone. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand up, if possible. Last Friday, New Zealand was shocked by an attack on two mosques in Christchurch. Driven by hatred and racism, the perpetrator chose that Friday, for many Muslims a day of reflection, to commit a massacre. His terrorist act demanded the lives of 50 innocent citizens. Dozens of people are in hospital; some are fighting for their lives. The attack has a huge impact on society in New Zealand, but also on us. It is an attack on the values that belong to a democracy, to an open, free society like ours. Yesterday, hatred and violence turned out to be even closer than we thought. A man opened fire in a tram in the centre of Utrecht. That was on October 24th. The square owes its name to the creation of the United Nations on 24 October 1945, an organisation whose aim is to bring peace and security around the world. We don't have all the answers yet. We don't know what the killer's motives are. We don't know if it's a terrorist attack. What we do know is that the Netherlands is deeply affected. Suddenly the images we have seen before of attacks in Brussels, London and Paris went over our own Utrecht. We saw closed streets, armed policemen, white eyewitnesses' faces pulled away. We saw the emergency services doing their job under very difficult and emotional conditions. Gradually, it became clear that three people were killed and five were injured, three of which were serious. It could have been any of us out there on that tram, on our way to school or work. A quick sandwich in the morning, a kiss for your family, rushed to the tram. Everyone recognizes it. It makes us angry and scared. We saw that fear very clearly yesterday. We felt the fear of parents with children in daycare centres or in schools in Utrecht. We were worried about family and friends living and working there. The idea that someone can deliberately destroy so many human lives is beyond comprehension. I don't think the scars we got yesterday will soon disappear. But I hope we can show our resilience. That we don't let ourselves be intimidated and drift apart. That such a cowardly act doesn't disrupt our society. I wish the same to New Zealand. But also countries such as the Philippines, where in January an attack was committed in a large Catholic church, and all those other countries that had recently or more suffered from terrorist violence. In New Zealand we saw that all synagogues, for the first time in history, on the Sabbath, Saturday, remained closed, out of solidarity of the Jewish community with the Muslim community. The whole society stood up to hate and violence. Faithful or not, together the people announced that there is no room for extremism in New Zealand. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I wished the President of the Parliament of New Zealand much strength and strength, and I expressed the hope that the unity they showed was a glimmer of light at this dark time. In the Netherlands we mourn with Utrecht. We share the feelings of grief, pain and anger. In mind, we are with the victims and their next of kin. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Today the flags are half-sticked throughout the Netherlands. Because yesterday's nightmare is not a bad dream, but the harsh reality with which we woke up this morning. Innocent people who were on their way to work, school or other activities in Utrecht on the tram ended up in a jet black scenario from one moment to the next. Suddenly they were brutally attacked, target of a terrible attack. One more boy tries to help a wounded girl, but then gets the gun pointed at him himself. He can't believe it. "I thought: is this real; is this really happening to me?" A fraction of a second later, he's running from his life. It was real. It's real. A completely unreal situation. Three people getting shot and three people getting seriously hurt. On Monday morning, in the tram to Utrecht Centraal. Utrecht is in the heart of our country. And the Netherlands has been hit in the heart. Our thoughts are primarily with the next of kin, with the families and families from which a lover has been ripped away from one moment. And we're thinking of the wounded fighting for their lives. The whole of the Netherlands is deeply sympathetic. A little more than a day after this terrible attack dominates me and everyone in the Netherlands feelings of horror and disbelief. There are still a lot of questions about the killer's motive and the background to this attack. Police and Public Prosecutor's Office will have a lot of work to do in the near future. But the impact is great. In Utrecht yesterday public life stopped. Buses and trams stopped driving. Schools closed. And people stayed inside. Our trust's gotten a hell of a pinch. So is our sense of security. And yet we're going to get back on our feet and move on with our lives, because that's the best answer we can give. This morning people just got back on the tram, on their way to work and school. For me, that simple daily routine is the most powerful proof that our society is stronger than hate and violence. I would also like to express my deepest respect and appreciation for all the aid workers who have and still are assisting the victims, and for all the police and security personnel who managed to apprehend the prime suspect yesterday. I also have incredibly much admiration for the inhabitants of Utrecht, who, despite the great threat, have remained calm and calm. An example for all of us. Madam President. Due to yesterday's events in Utrecht, we feel even more connected with the people in Christchurch, New Zealand. A place that couldn't have been further away, but which is very close to us today. In an act of extreme violence, a man, blinded by intolerance and xenophobia, murdered dozens of people peacefully celebrating Friday prayer. Fathers, mothers, sons, daughters, grandparents: ordinary people who confessed their faith in their familiar surroundings were attacked and murdered in cold blood. We sympathize with the victims and relatives of this terrible tragedy. What links Utrecht and Christchurch, the Netherlands and New Zealand, these days, is the sadness of the complete senselessness of violence. Today, despite the great distance between our countries, we are united in a sense of horror, but also in the confidence that our societies are resilient, and in the conviction that we will not yield to hatred and violence. Never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would now ask you to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you.
