ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u1	We always start with oral Question Time on Tuesday. This time we start with the questions of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD. Her question is about the message that Iran is protecting Ridouan Taghi. I call Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Organised drug crime in our country is a ruthless billion-dollar business led by top-level items that have been out of the question for a long time. Mr. Chairman. These criminals are responsible for many brutal reckonings in residential areas in broad daylight, for so-called misdemeanour killing innocent people, and for a direct attack on our rule of law: the murder of lawyer Wiersum recently. Mr. Chairman. Crime journalists John van den Heuvel and Mick van Wely recently revealed that one of the most wanted criminals in our country, Ridoun Taghi, would be protected by Iran's secret service. The Iranian government would even help with this. Mr. Chairman. You can imagine that this raises many questions. I would like to know from the Minister whether he is familiar with these latest developments in the Taghi case. I'd like to know what it means if this man were to stay in Iran. What does that mean for the investigation and roll-up of his network? Has the Minister been in contact with his colleagues in Iran, but also with his colleagues in Dubai, for example, which is also said to help this man? And what happens now to apprehend this criminal, Taghi? I still have time, Mr. Chairman, but these are the most pressing questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u3	Fine. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'll just go straight to the door. I'm doing that out of respect for your Chamber, and I hope you'll understand that, but I'm not going to talk about any ongoing investigation. As Minister of Justice and Security, in the light of our rule of law, I must always stay out of that. It cannot be that I am going to share with you my opinion or speculations or thoughts and such. Secondly, apart from that constitutional aspect, I can quietly say that I am really not helping the investigations and our society if I were to have some sort of opinion debate on these ongoing investigations. So my answer is very short. That is really not involuntary, but it is just the two points I have just mentioned. I would like to tell you that I appreciate the commitment of your Chamber and in particular that of Mrs Yeşilgöz. In its relatively short period in the permanent Committee on Justice and Security, it has always raised very critical points. I think it is really good that as a Chamber, we should always be debating this, but we should be taking these restrictions into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u5	I understand very well that the Minister cannot talk about current matters here, but there are, as far as I am concerned, a lot of issues that we can talk about. I would like to know, for example, the following. I think there's a big need to raise the tip money. Is that what happened? What actions are being taken to speed up the pursuit of this man in particular, but also of other key elements in organized crime? Here's what I'd like to know. We all want our intelligence services to play an important role in tackling drug crime. That is what the Minister has said before. I would like to know to what extent the Intelligence and Security Services Act is equipped with this. The security services themselves indicate that they can play a limited role in this. I wonder: does the Minister consider that if organisations, for example in Iran, cooperate with Dutch drug criminals who have murders, intimidation and threats in their names, this would jeopardise our national security? And shouldn't the undermining drug crime be treated as such? If the Minister agrees, it will also have consequences for how we use our intelligence services and what we do for them. These are, of course, all questions that we can deal with here today and also in the future, so I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u6	I am going to start with that sentence, Mr President, in the hope that you will forgive me if it happens as slowly as the chorus of a long ballad: I am really not going to say anything about current matters. What I do want to say is my letter just before the recess. You've seen it. That was a comprehensive letter on how to tackle serious crime. In this I have outlined the outlines of a broad approach, in other words: a delta plan against serious crime. In a very good debate with your Chamber on 11 September 2019, I found that there is a very large consensus in the Chamber and Cabinet on the need to really fight this with a great deal of power and resources. You know that from my letter to the effect that I have focused on extra efforts in the cabinet. This certainly includes looking at what additional resources we can use for the three themes that I have always mentioned: the roll-up of the gangs, the taking away of every cent that criminals think they deserve and finally preventing young people, but also people in weak groups, from slipping through a single mistake and getting on the wrong path. I have devoted a great many resources to these three issues, as the letter states. I'm gonna keep betting on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u7	You have a little time left, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u8	I think there is a difference between not going into an individual case and not going into my questions, which also touch on other points. Isn't this an attack on our national security? Isn't it being compromised? What does it mean for the role of the intelligence services? What else can we do about this? Has there been any contact with colleagues from the other countries? There are quite a lot of questions that, as far as I am concerned, do not directly affect this individual case, not answered. I'd really appreciate it if the Minister could go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u9	In dealing with the serious crime, our services, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the KMar, excuse the abbreviation, the KMar is the Royal Marechaussee Customs and other, really their best resources and people. Mrs Yeşilgöz knows this from previous debates we have had with each other. In the area of serious crime, we work together internationally very much. I endorse what Mrs Yeşilgöz says. I myself mentioned it a month ago in the Buitenhof programme: I think we should be prepared to recognise that this is a matter of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u11	Not only does it have all the features of serious organised crime, but it now also has those of international terrorism. I would like to ask the Minister whether that line is sufficiently visible. We are looking at money laundering, because, of course, we do not want money laundered, but this seems to be an international aspect of financing international terrorist groups. Is the cabinet taking these aspects with it enough? If the Minister can't say that here, so be it. Is the proposal on money laundering broad enough to tackle not only money laundering as such, but also the financing of terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u12	Firstly, I would like to discuss this with your Chamber. Perhaps we should do that again in a more comprehensive framework. I wrote a letter to your Chamber in December 2018, I say, memorized it, in which I pointed out the links between terrorist groups and serious crime. I did so on the basis of the nasty fact that part of the armament of the Bataclan group, to name but a few, was to be reduced to serious crime from the Low Countries, the Netherlands and Belgium, i.e.: they had applied some of the weapons. There is a major investigation, which is also mentioned in the letter "Justice', which shows that terrorism is often intertwined with certain groups in serious crime. So that's one thing. Secondly, we must indeed face up to each other that we are laundering. That is why I am constantly saying that the cabinet must take a lot more action, because we see that there are more and more international branches and that they are becoming more and more complicated and ingenious. So you can appeal to the Cabinet. Mr Hoekstra is speaking today in an international context about how we handle the money laundering component well. I am confident that I will soon be able to return to your Chamber with a number of further results on the possibilities for additional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you.
