ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the transfer of the climate agreement between the PPE-DE and the CPB. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to section K. I give the floor to Mr Klaver as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr President, thank you. And thank you to my fellow Members for allowing us to debate this evening on the passing on of the climate agreement. The picture yesterday at the beginning of the afternoon was not good: the targets are not being met and the burdens are not fairly divided between citizens and businesses, and between high and low incomes. But the reaction of the cabinet surprised us, pleased surprise. I made that clear yesterday. On two main points we saw an outstretched hand, an outstretched hand that was filled this time. There will be a CO tax for companies and compensation for household energy bills. My group is very pleased with that. However, we still have a number of questions, including about the process. That's what I wanted to start with. About a week before the elections, these adjustments came as a gift from heaven, but first the coalition sat in a cockpit for four months and a CO levy or compensation for the energy bill was absolutely unnegotiable. A few weeks later, the idea was: maybe we should. Then they sat together for four weeks, they saw the light and came up with a CO tax and a compensation for the energy bill. I would like some clarification on this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u3	I have a question about the CO levy, but I would like to say that the line I have always used is that I wanted to give what came from the tables a chance, but did not exclude anything. When Mr Asscher first sent his own CO levy to the PBL, I said in the media: if that works better, I will take a serious look at it. So I don't recognize the image that it's been unspeakable all these months. But if we are going to introduce a CO levy now - which Mr Klaver is very pleased with - then of course we still have a choice in how we do it. The only drawback of the process now is that we have said that there will be a CO levy and the whole world thinks: but what kind of CO levy? Some people have a little stress with that. Maybe it's good to tell each other what the bandwidth is. And not in costs, but in the following: is Mr Klaver, when he looks at it later and gives his opinion on the ideal CO-tax, also planning to look at the employment effects and whether you can do it smartly, so that you green up, but you don't chase the companies across the border where companies work even grayer and Dutch people lose their jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u4	It's almost an open door, but doing things smart is a very good idea in itself, especially when it comes to such a CO-tax. What I always say about shaping such a CO tax is that you often look at the level of the tax. That's also what business is about, and we've been visiting them almost all when GroenLinks is talking about: that CO levy of yours is really high. But what is much more relevant is the question of how you send it back to those companies, so that you can stimulate innovation. So we have two questions to answer. The question of how high the levy should be is perhaps even easier to answer than the question of how to steer it back in a smart way. We are very willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u5	Okay, the question of how to lock that back is at least one step, because the goal isn't necessarily to raise money, but to green it. But of course there are also sectors where this is a little more complicated, where you can make less CO reduction gains, especially in the short term, and where innovation takes a little longer. Does Mr Klaver say that the Netherlands should simply give less room for this when it comes to it? Or does Mr Klaver say that you could look very specifically at how to green up this industry, as far as possible, and also keep employment in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u6	I dare say that, when we talk about the CO tax, a lot of companies can handle it really easily. But there are a few industries where you have to pay extra attention: steel and in chemistry the squatters. That's two big headache files. You need to see how you can fix that. I'm sure you can do that with a very strong CO-tax if you put it back but really well organized. But that's possible. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u7	Finally, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u9	Then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u10	Interesting opening of the debate, because Mr Klaver is now saying that it is good that the coalition groups have now taken the step of a CO levy for industry. He also thinks it is reasonable, or very sensible, for you to channel the proceeds of that CO levy back to business to speed up greening in industry. In fact, that seems to me to be a sensible form of the CO levy. But Mr Klaver spoke quite differently a few weeks ago, among other things, in a number of talk programmes, of what he would like to do with the proceeds of that CO levy. So can we see here tonight that GroenLinks is joining the coalition groups that the CO levy must be used to help industry, to green it faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u11	I am glad that Mr Jetten has heard and seen me in these talk programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u12	I always look loyal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u13	Well, that's incredibly good to hear, Mr Jetten, but I also hope you've read our initiative bill, because we didn't just talk about a CO tax, we also made an initiative law on it. And you can read in it that we say: some of the money we would like to use to lower the citizens' energy bill, which would still be my wish, but an important part of that money really has to go back to those companies. I've said that since the very first moment. The exact ratio and how much that is, that's for me to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u14	I think we're trying to get this household energy tax down. There are proposals for this in the package presented yesterday. I also read, when you sent your proposal to the planning agency, that the proceeds would be used for the greening of industry. But I heard that Mr Klaver never actually say that when he did media appearances. So this is a win. We have only been working on this debate for a few minutes, but this is an important point of profit: GroenLinks also wants to use the CO levy for industry in such a way that the industry reduces emissions, and we are using the revenue to green it. That's a hell of a win tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u15	I am happy to vote for Mr Jetten, but I have already mentioned this in previous debates and in all the media. We think that you can also use it for the energy bill, but very important: you also need to take care of that backlock. That's what the bill says. I have said that in the various media, but also here, in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u16	For the viewers at home: a little negotiation here, because the coalition knows that they will soon have to work together in the Upper House with other parties and GroenLinks will probably be able to tolerate. So what I think is important in the whole negotiating circus that is about to take place is whether GroenLinks is in favour of a CO levy on methane emissions, which is another greenhouse gas that is covered by the CO reduction of livestock farming. Or does Mr Klaver think that methane, as you can see in many countries, is excluded from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mrs Thieme is right to point out that we are fully involved in the campaign. We are working hard to ensure that GroenLinks is as big as possible in the elections next week and that we are indeed needed for that majority, or to block policies, but much rather to help climate policy to a majority. The proposal made by GroenLinks was about the ETS sector. That's the big industry, so to speak. I believe that, in the end, agriculture should also be brought under a CO levy, as is the case with transport, for example. But there is a very clear reason why we did not choose this in the proposal made by GroenLinks. If we opt for the ETS sector, the largest polluter, we can introduce it very quickly, because all these data are actually available. This is not yet the case for all other sectors. But in the coming years I will work with all the parties here in the Chamber and also very much like to work with Mrs Thieme's party to get this done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u18	Soon, when the First Chamber elections have taken place, the smaller parties will certainly matter when deciding whether the cabinet policy can continue or whether it should be blocked. If we look at the A4 of this cabinet, in which it is said in particular that there are going to be a lot of subsidies going on in agriculture, then I really want to know something from Mr Klaver here. If he has already ruled out a CO levy on agriculture, because he says in the long term, but not in the first instance, and if he is likely to agree to the package of this cabinet to grant subsidies to most likely manure factories and pot-tight stables, then I wonder to what extent Mr Klaver is going to keep his foot in the negotiations, stick to his ideals and not keep a cabinet in the saddle that is actually just fixing purchasing power plates, but finally throw the real measures over the fence and wait for it to get better again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u19	Where Mrs Thieme is afraid that we are not keeping our backs straight, I get the impression from some coalition parties that they are very much afraid that we are keeping that back too straight. I think we're in the middle nicely. I may not have expressed myself very well, but I also believe that there should be a CO tax for the agricultural sector, and also for the transport sector, by the way. When I read the plans and the accounts of the plans, my great concern is that the plans for the agricultural sector are not concrete enough and that the objectives are far from being met. There's even money being spent, but even if you spend money on it, you still don't get the goals. I am not opposed to, for example, buying out farmers to make sure that there are fewer animals in the Netherlands. You're gonna have to pay for that, but I can see now that's not gonna do it. I think that the great task for the coming weeks is: how do we ensure that the agricultural table will contribute more and that we will really put an end to the bio-industry, with which Mrs Thieme ends every contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u20	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr Klaver will have to deal with the CDA, which has already managed to get millions of subsidies back to agriculture. If Mr Klaver is going to negotiate and put agriculture aside again because we are dealing with a party that absolutely does not want us to get to that holy cow, then I think we are on the wrong track. This climate policy is based too much on only green energy and too little on our food system. I assume that Mr Klaver is going to be very hard on this with us, because even without the Animal Party, this cabinet will probably not be able to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u22	This is why we are fighting so hard that we are going to do very well next week in that election, because this is exactly what we want to do. I agree with you, this is not just about more renewable energy. It's about saving, it's about our food system. The way in which we deal with agriculture in the Netherlands and specifically livestock farming is a major problem. We need to take huge steps on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u23	Proceed, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u24	I wanted to switch to the content, but fortunately we already had a lot of that. The Prime Minister has indicated the need for such a CO tax. I assume that the cabinet also wants to talk to GroenLinks about the legislative proposal that we have brought before us. I would also like to ask what measures the cabinet is thinking more about. I actually wanted to compliment the CDA and the Christian Union, because yesterday it was stated that they are prepared to take even greater steps on agriculture. Agriculture is an important supporter of these parties. If you're taking this step just before the election, I think it's worth a compliment. The question is, what are we going to do there, because in the end, the plans that lie ahead are underplayed. The steps we will have to take there are really very large. It is, for example, about the need for a rigorous statement that we must put an end to the bio-industry. And we're not gonna get out of further shrinking the livestock. That is why I have a question about mobility. Due to the changes I read yesterday in the letter sent by the cabinet, the contribution that mobility measures can make to reducing CO emissions will, in our opinion, go further down. That is why the question is whether we can also talk about paying for use. There was a taboo on that, but is it done now and can we take it with us when we talk about a broad climate agreement? I think that the cabinet wants to make good adjustments, for example when it comes to the oversubsidisation of electric transport, but I think that you will have to take a step towards e.g. road charging. And is the 49% really the absolute minimum that needs to be achieved? Then the energy bill. Something special is happening here. Already in the autumn GroenLinks asked for attention for the rising energy bill. At that time we were told that this was not a problem and that we wanted to make income policy through the energy bill, but fortunately we are getting right. But I do have one problem. The government promises that the energy tax will be reduced for citizens, but not until 2020. In this debate, I would like to have the Prime Minister's undertaking that we will compensate the energy bill for households in the Netherlands as early as 2019. We can arrange that for the spring note. I would like the commitment that the Prime Minister wants to work together on this issue. We have also submitted this to the energy companies, to see if they can implement it, and they have responded positively to it. Finally, Mr President. I thank the cabinet for the outstretched hand and I am glad it was filled this time. That is also what we have put out our hand. Climate policy requires long-term cooperation. The Prime Minister stressed that broad support is important. My proposal is therefore to go directly to the table on 21 March and to work together on broad social and political support for climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen, who speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. Was it a very nice election stunt that we saw yesterday, or are we really going to learn what that beautiful promise means tonight? I can't wait to see that. In my opinion, clarity is what people have been asking for for a very long time. For a very long time, people have been unclear about what the climate measures are going to mean in concrete terms and, above all, about what they are going to cost. One thing is clear to people: the energy bill is rising, and so is a lot. The energy bill is over €300 higher this year than last year. At first this was still a bit denied and we were even accused of being scared, but in the end it turned out that all those people who have reported to our hotline were right to raise energy bills, because the energy bill is rising sharply. After months of negotiations on a climate agreement, the people had to wait for the results, and then on the transfers, yesterday, half an hour after the presentation of these transfers, we saw a new press conference of the cabinet, where it became clear that things were going to be different. The big companies are going to pay their fair share and the energy bill is going down. That sounds like good news to us. But the question is, of course, how much will the energy bill go down and by when? And how's that gonna be organized? In addition, the big companies are going to pay their fair share, but what's that gonna look like? How big is that fair part going to be and how is the cabinet going to organize this? I hope that the Prime Minister will clarify this tonight. Because that's kind of the problem. We saw Mark Rutte in election time, six days before we went to the ballot box, making a new promise, namely that the energy bill is going down. But of course we have seen something like this before. Its own risk wouldn't go up. The street maker who wanted to be with AOW for 65 years had to vote for the VVD. We'd get $1,000. And there wouldn't be a penny going to Greece. So you will forgive me, Mr President, that some scepticism has struck me after hearing this Rutte campaign, which, as he himself said yesterday, opens the volume button again in campaign time. So I am very curious to hear from the Prime Minister tonight exactly what that promise means. Is it true, as my follow-up question is, that if the ratio of the energy bill is adjusted, it will increase less than €45? It's important to be clear about that tonight. Is the energy bill being reduced, or is it only going to rise a part less? And how much are the big companies going to contribute? They talk about their "honest part," but what exactly is that? I do not think it is right and it is unfair that people should wait so long for clarity on what climate action is going to mean to them. However, one thing is clear: the energy bill is rising. Today's specific question from the SP to the Prime Minister is whether he is going to reverse the whole increase in the energy bill. In six days' time, the elections will be over, and I think it's time for a voice on climate justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme, who speaks on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. 505 days with a majority coalition, no matter how small. And after all this time, the cabinet can show little or nothing about green measures. The government agreement was almost exclusively about measures to be taken by the next cabinet, and what has been done would mainly reach citizens: a higher energy tax of around €350 per household. This has seriously damaged the basis for an ambitious climate policy. The same delay and shearing behaviour also applies to the climate agreement. The two planning agencies therefore gave the agreement a big insufficient amount. The ink from the credit transfers wasn't dry yet, or the prime minister pulled a few green promises out of his top hat. Unfinished... to save the climate on the back of a beer skin... and unbelievable... become cleaner with dirty deeds................................................................................... After all, less than two weeks ago, the cabinet took an interest of more than EUR 700 million in the heavily polluting Air France-KLM. And now this flight forward. Play nicely over the elections. If it gets to spring first, or rather summer, the voter will be a bit milder. In any event, the cabinet survived the elections of the States and the First Chamber. Citizens are now promised a lower energy tax and larger companies a higher one, intended to take away the impression just before the elections that the cabinet is mainly there for multinationals. For example, the industry, perhaps, has to deal with a CO tax, which is unclear whether it is going to succeed in this cabinet period, but the biggest polluters, agriculture and aviation, are likely to emerge again. I'd like some clarification on that. The results will follow after the elections. The Prime Minister has already said that it must be wise not to chase companies out of the Netherlands. Behind that word "wise" lies a whole world, a world of neoliberalism, market forces and safeguarding international competitiveness. Something we've already seen at the Climate Act. According to the Prime Minister, the agricultural sector is going to make an extra contribution. And how? By subsidising the polluting livestock sector. In doing so, LTO has managed to do what Shell has failed to do, namely to let the taxpayer again pay for the cost of cleaning up the, excusez le mot, shit that causes livestock farming, literally. The farmers' lobby already assumes that the subsidy is intended for manure factories and pot-tight stables. However, the PBL, like the Council, proposes that a reduction in livestock is inevitable and much more effective, but that sacred cow does not dare to take the cabinet by the horns. The cabinet is far behind the reduction requirement that the judge twice pronounced in the Urgenda case and again the cabinet tries to close the gaps with small talk. And it can be that simple. If Dutch people did not eat meat for three days a week, this would result in as much greenhouse gas savings as 3.3 million cars. The clientism of the CDA and the VVD in particular for the hardworking farmer stands in the way of political ambition and vision. Climate policy is reduced to purchasing power and false hope for the future. Who truly believes that this cabinet really wants to do something about the climate crisis? ChristianUnion and D66 have been sewn into the suit by CDA and VVD and because of fear of seat loss they are now trying to limit the damage. On 20 March, voters can say that they do not entrust the government with the climate. Students also announced today that they want a radical change of course and more than 40,000 people went into the streets last Sunday to protest. The ballot boxes will be open in six days. The resistance is growing, and that is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. That is by way of derogation from the list of speakers, but I understand with the permission of the spokesmen. No one's protesting, so that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u30	Madam President. I have a "report" here, because that's all I can call it. It's more like a sketch, a first coarse stroke of pens. Only 120 of the 600 proposed measures in the climate agreement have been taken into account, and the cases that have then been passed on are, in fact, not or hardly substantiated. However, despite all the incompleteness and flaws, this report clearly shows what the problem is with the ill-thought-out climate law on which the voter can pronounce on 20 March. Because this climate law destroys purchasing power. Public expenditure alone amounts to 5.2 billion a year. There are also tens of thousands of euros per family, namely the costs that are not included in the report but that people have to make. Already we see the consequences. This year alone, the average energy bill increases by €334 per family. And this is just the beginning. Because let's not forget that the Climate Act, which VVD and CDA adopted together with 50PLUS, ChristenUnion, SP, GroenLinks, D66 and the PvdA, goes until 2050. Then all energy generation in the Netherlands must be renewable and our CO emissions should be reduced by 95%. The cost of this will be much, many times higher. People need to purchase a heat pump, including an indoor and an outdoor unit. They need to open up the entire gap wall of their house and isolate it again. They need to replace the roof and fill all the crawlspaces with concrete and insulation material. They have to build new pipes, replace the bathroom, renovate the kitchen and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u31	I agree with Mr Baudet that you should not use big words on the basis of reports if they are not thick enough or not clear enough. So we are still waiting for that report on Mr Baudet's 1,000 billion himself. But now he's saying, "People have to do everything." Where does he get that they have to and that they have to do it all by themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u32	The billing, or the explanation of how we get at least 1,000 billion, is extended on our site. You'll find that in no time. And the fact that people have to grow all that on their homes is a logical consequence of the gas ban. Because if houses can no longer be heated via central heating boilers, then a heat pump or a heat installation will have to be installed, and that has enormous consequences. The lukewarm water of that heat pump can only heat a house sufficiently if that house is extremely isolated. And so the gap walls have to come out, there has to be a new roof, there has to be underfloor heating everywhere. And the cost of this amounts to tens of thousands of euros per house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u33	I do understand the technical implications of having water flowing through your pipes of only 45oC if you need low temperature heating. You have other convectors for that than just underfloor heating. You can also just hang such convectors on the wall. I don't know you well enough to say come home and take a look, because I'll show you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u34	Oh, do you have that at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u35	Yeah, low-temperature convectors. I don't have a heat pump yet, because I thought it was way too expensive. That's why I thought: how nice that I don't read anywhere that I have to make a loan myself to buy one of these things. I thought: how nice that space is going to be provided, including through heat funds, to allow people to do so gradually. It is nice that there are companies already saying: in a few years' time we will be offering this as a service. They say, against about the same burden you have now, we'll change your installation. Then you don't have to make that investment yourself and you don't have any higher burdens, but you do have the greening. I thought: how nice that there can also be heat grids that are built by the municipality. How nice that there is still so much time, 31 years, so there is also room for developments for houses that are very difficult to heat with low temperature heating. During that period, innovations for these houses can be developed so that you can keep high temperature heating in a green way. It is nice that all these reassuring things are there, and what a pity that Mr Baudet then causes a lot of stress because he himself likes to make up a story that frightens the voters. Those stories can't be found in any of the reports, and if you ask them, they only turn out to come from his own implications of a flawed reading of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u36	Well, the climate agreement alone states that 1.5 million homes will have to go through this isolation and transition by 2030. So there is a constant 31-year screening, and a lot of things actually have to be done before 2030. That's really a misdemeanor. All these stories about "yes but, companies offer it against a lease construction" and so on... Right now, it's priceless. Here's the cost. So the fair story is that we present it to the people: this is what you voted for, this is the Climate Act. Then you can say "we don't know how to finance it yet, we have faith in the future," but that's no way to do politics. You can't run the country like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u37	I don't think you can control the country without confidence in the future, so I'm still holding on to confidence in the future. But I'm so glad you don't have to now. You're saying you can't afford it right now. In some cases, it's possible. There is no one who is now obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u38	That's not true...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u39	What you're doing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u40	There's already an effective gas ban, right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr. Baudet, let's wait for the question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u42	That's crazy, 'cause I haven't had any complaints at home that the heating's not working anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u43	That's not the point, it's about new construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u44	See, that's what I'm talking about. You come first with a gas ban. That's for the new building. You come with "all houses in 11 years." It's 1.5 million. So you have to withdraw from your position every time. Like that 1,000 billion you're right about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u45	No, absolutely not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u46	...if we wait 500 years. But that's not the horizon...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u47	500 years? It's not in 500 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u48	No one understands this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's just bullshit. The Climate Act, which was adopted by the VVD on 23 December last, sets a tough target for 2050 that is priceless and unfeasible. You can't say this is a target, but we have no idea how we're gonna pay it. If you look at what is now technology, at what is now clear about what needs to be done to provide our energy supply, you will come up with astronomical amounts: hundreds of billions. We even think at least 1,000 billion. I haven't heard from anyone who could fight that in a credible way, quite the contrary. I see people going around and playing hide-and-seek, saying: oh, but those are the goals of 2030, we have 31 years for that. That's just not true. 2030 is 11 years from now, 2050 is 31 years from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mr Baudet often does scare-making when it comes to climate policy. He's talking about 1,000 billion, about all kinds of things that people should be at home. I find it rather childish of him that he does not simply acknowledge that the PBL and the CPB have shown that Mr Baudet is wrong. Instead of just recognizing that, he is now going to mock the referee, the planning agencies that have passed on all these proposals. Let's talk about the "must." I would like to invite Mr Baudet to visit me shortly, for example in Breda, where a housing corporation neighborhood for the neighborhood goes off the gas. Those are corporate homes, bad homes with bad energy labels. People are in drafty homes and pay a huge energy bill. That's where the corporation goes street by street from the gas, sets up a heat grid, isolates the houses and ensures that people get an induction hob instead of a gas stove. Those people are very happy. They say: I don't have a drafty home anymore, the central heating boiler is gone, so I have an extra closet left in which I can get rid of stuff and my water boils faster. Those people are very pleased with the approach the corporation is taking there for neighborhood. That's not necessary, that's helping people at home to get a warm and comfortable home against a lower energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u51	It depends entirely on where that energy comes from. If you shut down the coal plants, do not want to develop nuclear power and plant windmills everywhere, that is about priceless. That's gonna be awfully expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u52	But the question is whether you are prepared to go to work with Mr Jetten in Breda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u53	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u54	That's nice. That sounds like fun. Then we'll go to work and see how you can get off the gas in an affordable way. Then we continue that same day to Schiedam, where the largest wind farm is now being prepared for the North Sea. A wind farm that is built without subsidies. So free energy, as a government, we don't have to pay for that at all. We can also go to a heat source in Brabant, where they use geothermal heat. Because sometimes it doesn't blow, Mr Baudet is absolutely right, but then we can still make energy in other sustainable ways. Mr Baudet, thanks to such innovations, thanks to these examples, the PBL concludes: the national costs are EUR 2 billion per year. If you arrive at 1,000 billion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u55	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u56	... you'll be talking in 500 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u57	No, that's not true. The total cost of this cabinet's entire climate policy is 5.2 billion a year. A lot of costs are not included, for example the costs of building all those heat pumps, isolating houses, buying more expensive electric cars. If you then take this report, which I think is actually the name "report not worthy"; but well, this thesis is the starting point, then you also have to stick to what is in it. It says 5.2 billion a year. It doesn't have a lot of costs. Plus this is about the 2030 targets, while the climate law is about the targets for 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u58	It would be a good thing for Mr Baudet to be able to talk with a little more respect about all those experts who have passed on the plans. Nor are we talking about Mr Baudet's written work. I think it would be a good idea to challenge the Minister to do whatever he did in the previous climate debate, namely to explain to Mr Baudet the difference between burdens, investments and the proceeds you collect from them. Because, yes, a number of measures have not been passed on. Why is that? Because it's investments that ultimately lead to lower burdens. It would be very nice if Mr Baudet could see that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u59	In theory, that's true, of course. Only, you have to test that against the practice. Not everything you put money into is an investment. You can only test that if it has a higher yield. Something is an investment if it yields more than it costs. That is only the case. If you include legislation that is all about to ban things, then you can call everything cosmetically an investment. When you ban coal and gas plants, everything you put in other sources is by definition an investment, but that is obviously not a fair way of measuring. In an honest way, you'd do it like this. What if we didn't do all this climate policy? If we took a more rational approach to all these theories about climate and so on and if we just said that the Netherlands could not have any meaningful effect, then variant A would be that we would do nothing, that we would just continue with the Netherlands, that we would simply use gas and coal and that we might add a nuclear power plant. That is variant A, and against that you can deduce what the cost would be of all of this. And if it would still be investments, I doubt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u60	It is, of course, a right point that Mr Baudet makes here: you always have to weigh things against each other. The good thing is that we can do that with this concept of climate change agreement and with the passing on of accounts. 'Cause what turns out to be? The climate agreement can be implemented more cheaply than we thought a year ago. It's about the $2 billion I just talked about. If we do nothing, we will have to spend billions in the coming years on fossil fuels, on oil, gas and coal, on raw materials coming from countries with bad regimes, such as Saudi Arabia with a prince who has journalists killed, or Russia, who has the guts to invade European countries. We, the Netherlands, are spending billions a year to buy these fossil fuels in future. D66 says: we're not going to do that anymore; we're going to invest in Dutch companies and in Dutch innovations for green jobs and savings in the Netherlands. So Mr Baudet obviously prefers to transfer that money to wrong regimes and oil sheiks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u61	This is a really bad representation of things. It's like you're saying, okay, we have $5, and we're either going to spend it on some kind of investment, or we're going to continue using coal, which we're apparently going to have to get from Saudi Arabia. That's not the discussion here. It's a lot more money that people say it's being invested, but it's actually just being thrown away by technology that's already out of date when you install it. Those windmills are obsolete the moment you build them. And it also costs a lot of CO emissions to make solar panels, because you have to win all those precious metals that are in there. This is all happening in China with a lot of CO emissions. So if you look at the whole cycle, it's not that clean at all. But that's where all that money goes, and you can't weigh two totally different forces against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u62	Good. Please continue. Oh, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mr Baudet is always so keen on it, and I think that he has studied all these different reports so well. Now I found a very nice state in the PBL account, on page 37. It concerns the national costs involved in implementing the climate agreement. I am waiting, because I see that Mr Baudet is browsing there. If you look at it, Mr Baudet, you will actually see that the capital costs are the investments we have to make, or as you say: the money we have to spend, but that the money we have to spend on energy, that those costs go down and that it keeps each other in balance. So, Mr. Baudet, what makes you think we'd only lose more money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u64	One of the things that is interesting in this report is that it has absolutely to do with this state of affairs. That's not gonna get involved. All the PBL says is, yes, we still need that. Where is that to be found in this state?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr. Baudet, this is what's above it. It's taking all the costs for climate policy. I'm actually looking for the constructive tone with you, because you're right that it's going to cost a lot of money. But this state shows that we have lost less money on the cost of energy, by saving energy. Those two things keep each other pretty much in balance. That shows the PBL. All costs were included. Could you go into that again? I think it shows you wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u66	No, no, no. If that's what you mean... I thought you asked why energy costs of houses would go down, which has to do with subsidies for insulation. The PBL is based on 14 billion, which is nowhere to be found in the CPB transfer. But if you are talking about the cost of energy that you can then get rid of, there is, of course, the same error of calculation as I indicated to Mr Jetten, which is that you then rely on the legislation that is now in place on the extortion of coal, gas and that kind of thing. If you take that as a starting point, it seems efficient because you then assume a scenario in which you already make it impossible to gain energy in a traditional way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u67	It will probably be up to me, but I do not think I can fully follow this reasoning. I think there is also a reason for this: I do not think that the reasoning stands. It's precisely because we're gonna isolate................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u68	Yeah, but somebody's got to pay those subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u69	Yeah, sure. You can see that it also reduces the costs, what people have to pay for the energy bill. We will not agree on this, but the only thing I am asking you to do is stick to the facts because this makes a debate a lot easier. Then I can agree with you if you say that the costs, so the money we have to spend, are very high. But it would be so nice if we could come together and you could also acknowledge that through all the costs we are going to make, we are spending less money on energy. I think it is very important that we can have a debate with each other and that we agree on the facts. Whether you like it or not, those facts are right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u70	Well, I certainly don't agree with that one-on-one. I don't think you can say this is what's written here, so it's definitely the case. You can always argue with things. The question is how to get certain figures and certain statistics. The whole point here was that I believe your question is that if you solve things with subsidies, that somewhere else will be compensated by taxes. In my view, that is basic macro-economics. So you cannot say: we simply set up a fund and give subsidies and then the cost of the people will be reduced. No, no, no, no. Somewhere, the bill is paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr. Baudet, I'm just trying to approach you. If you say that, and that is a problem, all of which is to be disputed, I say: sure, everything is to be disputed. There's a lot to deal with, but it's the numbers from the planning agencies. Those numbers weren't invented by anyone here. No, the planning agencies have calculated this based on the best scientific insights of the moment. It is important, however, that we agree that the investments we are making are savings on energy expenditure. The exact size of these savings is questionable. But I would be so pleased if you would at least acknowledge that because the task we have in the years to come is enormous. I would be so pleased if we could have the debate together and at least agree on those facts, so that I can say 'Mr Baudet, you actually have a good point' or that you can say 'Mr Klaver, that's true'. Because then we just get a lot further together in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u72	Well, it all depends on how you calculate these cases. What you save from isolation is marginal. It'll be less as you isolate more. For example, double glazing is a quick win in the first instance. If you want to get to actually 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% less draft and that kind of thing, you see that what you save is very quickly decreasing and that the net profit is very limited. So again here: very much is not explained in those reports; how exactly they have calculated or quantified this case. We know that completely isolating houses, in such a way that a heat pump that can heat houses costs extremely much money; hundreds of billions. We know that and how they will then come here to perhaps cosmetically an objective for 2030, which is open. One thing is certain: it costs us a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u73	Finally, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u74	Finally. I hope only one thing: that the Forum for Democracy will make a video of Mr Baudet's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u75	You can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u76	When I hear Mr Baudet, it sounds as if he has read reports on isolation more often than isolated something. I have that impression; that is an assumption. I'm not gonna ask him, 'cause I'm gonna lose another interruption. It's not such a crazy calculation to make, that you're isolating and saving? You say that double glazing saves you just a little bit of money, but that will save you every year from now on. That glass doesn't wear, so that's not just glass after two years. LED lamps are an even faster profit packer, if you do not have LED lights now; I would like to give you that tip. It's not such a crazy argument to say that people could do that, is it? Actually, you just leave money there every day. The problem is that you don't have the cash in your pocket to make that one-time investment that you've been out of after a few years. Then it is quite logical, sympathetic and even better for CO emissions to create a fund that actually costs money. That's the way the government works, so people can isolate and save. Some of that savings we use to re-fill that fund, some is immediately net in your pocket and after a few years you only have a saving left. When I hear you tell me about that, it sounds like it's some kind of pyramid game, when it's actually a pretty smart way to invest; that you're making costs that you're counting on after a few years of money. We're not just leaving that to people who happen to have that money in the bank, but we're making it available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u77	So there are two things. One is the point I tried to make earlier: the decreasing increase in yield of complete isolation. What I meant to say is that at those double windows, you can release the first 10%-15% of the insulation of your house. That might make sense. Then you save more heating costs than it costs to double those windows. The moment you want to completely isolate your home, up to the point that a heat pump is needed to heat your home effectively, it gradually becomes more and more very expensive. At the beginning, it's good for you, and then it's not good for you anymore. That curve is flattening very quickly. That's the point I wanted to make. As for the cost of heating a house, when you can no longer use gas to heat your home, you are dependent on electricity and it needs to be generated. Then the costs will rise very much again, because generating renewable energy, as it is called, costs a lot of money. So there are two points on which it is very expensive. One: to isolate it in such a way that a heat pump can work at all. Two: letting a heat pump work on sustainably generated electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u78	I just count it as a profit that Mr Baudet also explains here, albeit a little complicated, that isolate saves money and is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u79	A little isolation can save a little money, but the total isolation of your home, so that you can heat your home effectively at 45 degrees Celsius, which is again very inefficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u80	A little isolation is very difficult, because if you have one leak, the rest of your insulation is also worth less, so you have to do your whole roof and your entire floor right away. But it goes by measure. Mr Baudet immediately makes it absolutely, very binary. It is all or nothing and all the houses are the same with Mr Baudet. There are houses where you can only take it off with a heat pump. Those are often newer houses. There's also houses. I live there myself in such a..............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u81	Then how do you plan on getting that house warm when you're not allowed to use gas to heat your house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u82	I know that question, because that's what my wife asks me when I talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u83	Then what's your answer? You don't know that yet, and yet you voted in favour of that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u84	No, I know. So what you're doing is as much as it makes sense to isolate. So you're talking about floors, roofs and windows, as much as you need. Then you'll see if you can do it in the next few years with a hybrid solution and possibly with infrared panels in the places where you sit a lot. Not everyone has to do it that way, but you can do it if you want to do it quickly. That's the discussion at home. And otherwise you take it later and wait until 2021, until your congregation tells you what they're going to do in your neighborhood. Maybe there will be a heat grid that is suitable. And then you're gonna see when there's an innovation for you to do with your house. That's why you have to do it step by step. First you do the houses that are easy to do. First you do the houses that are not necessarily private property, so you can also see what does and does not work well. And those hardest houses, of course, are kept for the last time, when the innovations are there. So Mr. Baudet is now calling up an image... And I can understand why he says that we have a 2030 target. But he's also projecting it on the one in 31 years, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u85	But you can't make legislation based on entirely speculative theories about future innovations, can you? That's like saying: I'm jumping off an apartment building now, expecting me to find out how to fly somewhere in the course of that fall. That is what you did by adopting that climate law. It's just a leap in the deep. It is currently, with the current state of technology, an economic noose for the Netherlands. I agree with everyone who says that we do not know what may or may not be invented in the future. Yeah, maybe it is and maybe it isn't. I don't think so, but maybe I do. Who knows? But you're not gonna make a law that obliges us to comply with it by 2050, are you? That's totally irresponsible, isn't it? Then invest in education. Invest in innovation. Invest in new technologies, start-ups and that sort of thing. I can understand all that. But don't say, "We must have made this and that and that by 2050. What about the technology? I'm sure there will be innovations." What kind of policy is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u86	Look, there's a difference in trust in innovations. You can also project on what has already been developed. It is not the case that people still have to do things and do them all out of a vacuum. It is a development of what already exists and a projection of the expectation that is feasible. So as loose as Mr Baudet presents it, it is not. But perhaps the people who drafted the law, by talking about "targets" and "targets," have also taken some account of the fact that you cannot predict everything. So you're turning it into something that's not in that law at all. And that is not what I think is contributing to an open discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u87	It's in that law, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u88	This includes the objectives and targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u90	Yeah, strife targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u91	Yes, targets and targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u92	You also have targets. For example, your target is ten seats in the Senate next week...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u93	Twelve!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u94	Exactly. And when you get nine, you're gonna do that little dance again with the microphone and everything. You're gonna love that, too. Then you have not achieved your target, but you have achieved the maximum achievable. So then you are not going to say to yourself: I resign, because the goal was twelve and I didn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u95	Ah, wait! So you're saying that those targets in the climate law aren't hard at all? And that it's just a plan? And if we don't make it, it's okay? Is that how you're putting this absurd climate law into perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr Dijkhoff, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u97	No, that's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u98	Is it hard or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u99	They are targets. You're gonna focus on getting them. I'm motivated for that, too, and I'm confident it'll work. And I'm also confident that in ten years' time we'll be able to have technology that's farther than we are now. So you cannot say, as Mr Baudet does, that I freeze the state of the art and I count on everything having to be done in this way. Even if you do, the costs are far from the 1,000 billion that Mr Baudet keeps picking off his own website.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u100	Well, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u101	Well, I think it's... You know what? Never mind. It's gonna end sometime. It's just nice that when a lot of people with a lot of knowledge write a report and calculate things, Mr Baudet says: "You can question that. Isn't that something I can argue with?" But every number he's made himself is pretty hard. That is a complicated reality. There's a value judgment in there, so you can't argue with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u102	No, you have to look very carefully at what exactly examined which report. What the CPB has examined is not the cost until 2050, nor is it the total social cost of all the measures contained in the climate agreement. Well, that looks like something else. This is due to public costs up to 2030 and therefore to a limited number of measures. As you will recall from yesterday's reading, on page 39, there is an overview of measures not taken. There are things in it like increasing the CO2 price, flight tax, sustainable own fleet, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u103	Everyone's got the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u104	That has a huge impact on the overall economy, on the costs we make as a society. We must therefore consider these costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u105	I'll leave the maths for what they are. I'm sure we'll talk about that again. I would like to return to the considerations put forward by Mr Jetten to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u106	I would like to comment on that, but I was actually still working on a brief point to answer Dijkhoff's question. I have just added the text of the Climate Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u107	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u108	It simply states that emissions are at least 95% lower by 31 December 2050. So it doesn't say: our goal is, maybe we can do it, maybe we can't, we can see, we'll do our best. No, Mr Nijpels has always said that this is binding on future governments. It's very hard to say. And you voted for it. Maybe you're scratching behind the ears right now, I can imagine that very well, but then say that and don't pretend that the legal text is different from what he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u109	At 2030, which is the package we are discussing today, it is a target.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u110	You keep talking about 2030, but that law is about 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u111	Also. That law is about a lot of things and there are also those targets, but well, you know...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u112	That law was also dealt with extensively in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u113	Well, there are people who can't get enough of it, but I've had enough of this interrupting affair by now, so forget it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u114	I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u115	It's really there. I'm very sorry, you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u116	I'm going to see Mr Segers, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u117	I think Mr Baudet had to be somewhere on time; at least he wanted to speak early. But these are really long answers. I hope we can get to the point a little faster, also because of his own agenda. I would like to return to the geopolitical considerations put forward by Mr Jetten. Apart from all the figures, the question remains: do you want to give money to your own clean energy or to fossil energy that you have to get from countries like Russia and Saudi Arabia? Mr Baudet is already beginning to talk, but may I just ask my question for a moment? We know that the proceeds from the sale of oil in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait partly flow to, for example, the export of salafism, the financing of madrassas. So that brings about something that is at odds with the values of Western democracy. Is it not also a recommendation to invest in our own clean energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u118	Well, no. You better have a Secretary of State for Education who just closes schools when things happen there that you shouldn't have. You don't have to compensate for one bad policy with another bad one. We want to buy certain quantities of gas or oil on the world market. Of course, there are a lot of places and countries, such as Norway and America, where you can buy all kinds of raw materials and there is also, of course, a trade in all kinds, with Gulf states, with Russia, with all kinds of countries that you may have a great fear of. But if you want to tackle a specific problem, for example export of salafism, I think it would be much better to talk to the Forum for Democracy about reforming our immigration policy, which your party has never really been very warm for, but that is what you should do. You need to stop funding mosques and Islamic schools abroad. That policy, that's what we're all for. I think you're a lot less than that, but that's what you have to do. You don't have to confuse one problem with another, because then you never solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u119	If there's a thousand billion going anywhere, it's in Saudi Arabia. That's where the money went. Wahabism, say Salafism, was a stream of some sort of obscure sect somewhere in Islam, but it's gotten really big because of those oil dollars. That has been our sponsoring of that current within Islam. That's a very dark version of Islam. That doesn't do anything in Saudi Arabia. It doesn't do anything in Kuwait. It doesn't work in Qatar. That's where the money is made. If the money doesn't go to our country, it will go to other countries. That's where they sponsor that dark version of Islam. Then the question is: do we want to continue with this, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u120	Yeah, but at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u121	Mr Segers has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u122	Maybe I can finish. You can't stop that by setting up a border guard around here or closing a school somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u123	If you have to legitimize your climate policy on the basis of a geopolitical conflict that you may or may not have with a particular country, where you may or may not import a particular product, you admit that it is not sustainable at all on the basis of independent arguments. It is a very interesting discussion whether or not we should continue to import a certain amount of oil from a particular country. We can have a debate on that sometime. We can discuss that interestingly with each other. You can't hang a climate transition all over the Netherlands full of windmills on one specific issue? Isn't that a completely crooked way of looking at the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u124	I'm not just hanging this on this one nail. It is an additional consideration, but an important consideration, certainly. I'm looking at what the vast majority of climate specialists and climate scientists tell us. I try to pursue the policy that is sensible, just and good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u125	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u126	But one important consideration is that I do not want us to continue to sponsor Salafism or Wahabism. I note that Mr Baudet does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u127	There are all kinds of other places where you can get oil and gas, that's not the whole point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u128	I think that this point has been exchanged enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u129	Our oil is 8% from Saudi Arabia, otherwise we get it from Norway and other places. You can keep yelling that all the time, but it's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u130	Mr Jetten, one last comment, because I actually want to move on. We're with the fourth speaker now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr. Chairman. I think I'll be pretty ready after this. I would like to read out a passage and then hear from Mr Baudet whether he agrees. Economy and sustainability are directly interwoven. We are aiming for an economy that is in balance, and that cannot be different from when the economy is committed to sustainability. Technology has taken us a long way and has been able to help us with the right innovations to support the earth and promote sustainability, as in the case of alternative methods of energy production. As a knowledge-based economy, we have a chance to take the lead in the energy transition and even achieve a return on it. We support the energy transition, among other things, to become more independent from the Middle East, to have cleaner air and to preserve the brilliant carbon polymers that are now being ignited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u132	Beautiful, isn't it? "Cool polymers" comes from a book by Leon de Winter that I read when I wrote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u133	I will help Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u134	No, I know. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u135	Do you agree with the passage I just read?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u136	Yes, but that has to do with how you define the term "sustainable." We have a difference of opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u137	The spoiler alert - I am sorry to speak through Mr Baudet - is that the complete passage I have just read is the chapter'sustainability and innovation' from the Forum for Democracy election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u138	I know, I know. The rhythm of the sentences is unmistakable, right? It all depends on how you define the term "sustainable." I have nothing against innovation and taking good care of the environment, even more so, that is very important and so on. It is only a rather specific discussion that has recently emerged about the relationship between human CO emissions on the one hand and climate change on the other. We have a fundamental difference of opinion on this. Even if you endorse the scientific hypothesis you believe in, it is irrational to do what the Netherlands is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u139	I shall now turn to Mr Jetten, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u140	Yes, Chairman, finally. I just read out the election programme of the Forum for Democracy. I can only draw a conclusion from that. For this debate, people asked whether the GroenLinks or Forum for Democracy will be the most important option for this coalition. We have heard Mr Klaver and I have just read out the election programme of the Forum for Democracy. I can only draw one conclusion: both GroenLinks and Forum for Democracy support the climate policy of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u141	Actually, I'd like to suggest that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u142	It's remarkable that he's just getting support from his own group, that they're ruffling on the benches!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u143	That's always nice. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u144	As I have indicated and maintained, also in the wake of interruptions, I believe that the costs are enormous, and far greater, wider and more comprehensive than what is sometimes mentioned in one or two reports. We have also discussed the cost of isolation, the cost of a heat pump, in the interrupting debates, but we have not yet discussed the cost of purchasing expensive electric cars. Whatever is mandatory, whatever has to be done, because once again, in 2050 the whole of the Netherlands has to get rid of fossil. That is the harsh demand set out in the Climate Law. So cars need to be replaced. All cars must be replaced. Trucks, tractors, ships, you name it all! Everything's gonna be more expensive, across the board. Food, food, the cost of electricity, driving, flying, renting or buying a house, renting or buying a business property, concrete, steel, medicine, a beer, because that too is brewed with gas. Everything really gets a lot more expensive. We believe that these costs amount to a total of 1,000 billion. The afteraccount can be found on our website. So people's purchasing power will collapse. Purchasing power will collapse. We have no option of investing in education, in care, in infrastructure, in security, in housing. And what's in it for us? If all doomsday scenarios come true, even if you believe what Jetten and Klaver believe, then the Dutch efforts might possibly heat up the earth by 0.00007 ̊C less. So this huge operation is also completely pointless once again. Wherever you put these costs, it is a question of whether we do it to the citizen or to companies that are going to pass it on to the citizen. So the people in the Netherlands pay, via taxes, through more expensive products, through a higher energy bill. Those costs will end up with us. My appeal today is addressed to the coalition, but also to the voters in the Netherlands. Choose the Netherlands. Let the mind speak. Drop the climate bill. Invest the money that is now being thrown away, spent on completely pointless measures, in building a thorium reactor, in research into real innovation, in reducing charges to stimulate activity...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u146	... in immediate reinforcement of purchasing power, in support for the elderly and pensioners, for policemen, nurses, military, bus drivers, teachers, social workers. In short, invest in the Netherlands and stop this economic suicide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u147	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. There is an interruption by Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u148	It is an important debate today. I note this in Mr Baudet's extensive contribution. His group also supported the fact that the debate had yet to take place today. It's a debate with the cabinet. Actually, I only have one question. Surely I can assume that Mr Baudet is going to listen to the Government's reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u149	My group supported the debate. We haven't spoken out about when. I'm sorry it's like this now, but we'll always... That's what I've always said. Mr. Hiddema even has a "Bumabel." As soon as you speak, we will be alarmed and we will come straight to the Chamber. We'll always make sure we can see what happens. That is not always physical in the room, but we will always pay great attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u150	This answer to a simple question is incredibly long. I keep asking that question. This is a debate where, at least this afternoon, Mr Hiddema said that it should take place today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u151	No, no, he said he supported the debate. He supported the request for debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u152	Yeah, today. But that's not the point. At least, to the extent that it was a question of whether the debate should take place today. He could have said, "You don't have to." You're here now. We are all here because we represent democracy. We are having a debate with the cabinet. First we talk, then the cabinet responds and then we may be able to respond in second term. The question is: are you part of a debate or pure "Send Time for Political Parties"? If you want to be part of a debate, my question is: are you going to listen to the answer of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u153	It depends on how fast the other speakers are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u154	I think that's a shocking answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u155	What an outrage!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u157	Mr. Chairman. It will not have escaped anyone's notice that I gave Mr Baudet priority. There he was yesterday: the long-awaited pass-through of the draft climate agreement. The results were even too gritty for these coalition parties, as it turned out an hour after presentation. They came up with a whole package of measures, which are partly attenuating to the citizens and which are partly motivated by the elections, of course. That's obvious: it's the election, stupid! The pass-through confirmed once again the fear of 50PLUS that the little man is screwed. When the cabinet says that the cost per family is not so bad, it evokes something that is not understood by people who have to live off a low or normal income. The lower the income, the more climate policy costs. Levelling at the top. Of course, that is not possible: that is antisocial. Much wider compensation must be provided. Fortunately, there's just money available for that. As it stands, the lowest incomes, pensioners and beneficiaries are hit hardest. Of course, that has to be different, as the coalition knows. That is why, firstly, the energy tax for companies is increased: a shift of one third to two thirds instead of half-half. Citizens would care 75 euros, I hear here and there. €75, would that support be generated? Is that what you think, Mr. Chairman? 50PLUS doesn't think so. That's a shell. Is it still possible, as we ask, to reduce the energy bill for this year? This is not a package that will be said yes or no to. The most important measures are the measures we need to take in the international context. Well, then, model calculations aren't gonna do you any good. This requires political and diplomatic efforts. But these analyses give a broader and deeper insight into the advantages and disadvantages of a large number of CO-reducing measures, and that is profit. A large number of measures have not been discussed at all in the accounts, and the most important measure, a CO tax for large consumers, can be passed on in a variety of variants. The variant that the Prime Minister calls sensible is another gift to industry. And yet again, I would say, because they are allowed to use it again for their own greening, no matter how important in themselves: think about innovation. If you really want to share the burden more fairly, why didn't you choose to give it back to the citizen in part? The CPB points out that an 80% CO levy is passed on to citizens. What do you mean "the polluter pays"? Moreover, the government agreement talks about climate action in the European context or with a leading group of countries. "By working together with our neighbouring countries, we avoid major competitive disadvantages for the Dutch economy." The new proposal for a CO levy is national. Are you going to change the government agreement to this, I ask the Prime Minister, or will it not continue if other countries do not follow? How do you weigh the competitive disadvantages? I understand that the budgetary frameworks for the cabinet are leading but, fortunately, with public finances, it is not so good that these frameworks can be defined a little more broadly, I ask the Prime Minister. The DNB report The macroeconomic effects of a carbon tax in the Netherlands of autumn last year speaks of three scenarios. This represents a revenue from the CO levy of around 8 billion a year. There are 8 million households, so you can count on it: that is €1,000 per household. Prime Minister, this is your chance, I'm telling you, to still get that $1,000, do you remember back then? (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Promise makes you guilty. In the table on page 14 of the transfer account, the highest and lowest 5% are cut off. Why was that choice made? We would like to see a point cloud, so that all the values are visible. Averages are made up of extremes. I'd like a response. Overall, this is not a bad starting point for a broad public debate on climate policy, but it is certainly not an agreement yet. The citizen must be at the heart of the matter. We now have the first building blocks to start with the heavy work, drawing up a progressive and balanced policy package with maximum CO2 reduction at the lowest possible cost. For 50PLUS, the only thing that matters is public support and affordability for all. This requires dialogue and expertise, not drammers and doom prophets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u159	Madam President. It was a special day yesterday because of the passing on of the draft climate agreement that became available from the planning agencies, but it was also a special day because yesterday in the Protestant churches was the day of prayer for crop and labor. Now such a thank-you day service and such a billing presentation are very different things, but yet there was one important common notion. I heard a warning both in the church and in Nieuwspoort against overstretched creativity thinking and was given to us: realize that if you make plans and have views for over ten, twenty, thirty, forty years, it is surrounded with a lot of uncertainty. Precisely this uncertainty and the necessary modesty in what we can do exactly, the SGP always makes us a little hesitant for endless percentage discussions behind the comma in 20, 30 years. But it does make us excited about concrete measures to get started, to use energy more efficiently and to do so in a cleaner way. I see a lot of good points for this in the draft climate agreement. A tender for large-scale insulation of existing homes. I'd say get on with it as soon as possible. Why, cabinet, should that wait until 2020 and can we not start taking steps in 2019? Start looking for cleaner energy forms, not only sun and wind, but also invest in geothermal energy. Good point from the draft climate agreement. But today we were given a nice plan by the SGP Youngsters to also work on research into new forms such as thorium. Let us work on this ambitiously. Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group has said before: it must be feasible, affordable and reliable, as far as we are concerned, and these are, of course, also broadly shared principles. When we look at the plans and the billing, we see that affordability raises questions. For example, for the middle middle income they mean quite a pinch in the finances. But those figures were only valid for a short time. The cabinet soon announced a reduction in the energy bill. That is a good thing, but I assume that we will also see the final purchasing power figures in the final plans, because it does listen closely in that respect. The question is also where the bill will go later. Taxing large consumers sounds reasonable, but that big consumer can also be the baker around the corner, who also needs a lot of energy for his ovens. And is it gonna be affordable for that baker around the corner? That is why we would like to ask the Cabinet to give us an insight into the practice of the climate agreement measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. I also ask for a commitment from the cabinet on this point. Mr. Chairman. A CO levy will still be introduced, but in a sensible way. We are always in favour of sensible measures. It is true, and that is also a bit of the limitation of this debate, that it is sometimes easy to agree on the main points. But I have also heard in debates in Parliament say: spare us the main lines, because the evil is precisely in the details. How exactly does this work out in the end? We look forward to that with great interest. I started with the vicar and the scientist. I want to end up with the garage guy I was in the other day. He said: I still have to see that it all works out, that we're all going to drive electric, that we're going to go home, the cars at the loading pole, and then we're all going to cook on our electric cooker. I think he's got a good point in sobriety. That is what we mean by ultimately also a stress test that needs to be carried out. If all these measures are implemented, will it work in this way? My final question is: where is a place for this stress test planned? I'm rounding up. Know that it is surrounded by uncertainty, but let us do what our hand finds to do, in hope of blessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u160	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u161	Madam President. We want to continue to enjoy the nature, the water and the beautiful planet we share in this country. We want to be sure that our children have a bright future. That is what climate policy must be about. The good news is, that's possible. There is cause for optimism. You can see that it is already more profitable to invest in renewable energy in dozens of countries worldwide than in fossil energy. You can see that Bloomberg expects that to apply to all countries as of next year. Canada is as sunny as the Netherlands, but it builds a solar plant that provides more profitable power than our coal plants. Then there is cause for optimism. And if you know that almost 100 GW of solar energy has already been installed in 2017, more than all coal, gas and nuclear energy, Mr. Dijkhoff! All in all, that is even more reason for optimism. The Netherlands has everything it needs to take advantage of this and use the innovative power to create new jobs and new jobs, so that it is something positive that we are much more sparing with each other on our planet. But such a revolution can only succeed if it is from and for everyone. That's what it was missing. It can only succeed if people feel that they are being treated fairly, if the polluter pays and if we ensure that middle-class and low-income groups do not get the big bill. There too, there is reason for optimism. There is a new consensus, from the left to the right, that we must tax the polluter, that the CO tax goes out of the taboo and that it is therefore time to help households. I would like to point out that this increase in the energy bill was not in the climate agreement but in the cabinet. They're gonna fix it now. That's good. That's good. I am certainly not as cynical as Mrs Marijnissen seemed, but there are indeed voters who are suspicious of this Prime Minister's promises just before election time. So I think it is very good to record now that the energy bill is going down, as promised. I have a second question. It is good to redirect the CO tax back to innovation, but also to citizens, to households, to families. All kinds of proposals have been made for this. But we lack the word "jobs" in the cabinet letter. Employment, labour, jobs. Wouldn't it be a good idea to lock back some of those profits to keep jobs? I didn't think it was so fancy to stand next to Hemwegcentrale, where just people who need our support work. Climate policy is not meant for a triumphant competition. I just saw the outings planned between Jetten and Baudet. There's gonna be a vacation next. I do not think it should be about this, but it should be about people who are concerned, who are afraid of climate policy by members of this coalition, when there is an opportunity to do it with each other. I'd like to close with that. I found yesterday a positive day for climate policy, but also a positive day for politics. Making proposals and proposing alternatives is one thing, but it doesn't happen every day when a center-right cabinet says: yes, we're going to do it differently, it has to be fairer and it has to be greener. We will read all the fine prints and be very keen on the execution, but I very much welcome that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u162	At the risk of saying something unkind: this A4 from the cabinet with some purchasing power restoration measures comes out just before the elections. Does Mr Asscher really think that this is a positive day for politics? Or rather, it makes people think at home: "You see, The Hague is only doing it for the stage and trying to spawn us just before there are elections. They think we're crazy!"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u163	You know, it can go either way. It may be that it is a false promise, or it may be that the cabinet and the coalition say that they think it has to be different. I'm very optimistic. I think people will eventually vote because they want to see things improved, to see things changed. I think it is a golden opportunity for the cabinet to lose the majority, because then the policy can become more left-wing, more cheerful and more social-democratic. If it turns out to be a false promise, we can force purchasing power to improve after 20 March. If it turns out to be a false promise, we can force more money to the teachers and to the care. We will then be able to demand that the reduction in the tax rate of the companies will not continue. In other words, let us now be pleased that the taboo of the CO tax, which is a major industry lobby, has ended and that we saw the Prime Minister use the word 'fair'. It is getting used to for everyone, but let us make sure that we record and enforce this after 20 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u164	If the coalition agreement talks about measures far after this cabinet period, if the cabinet is going to sit on its hands for 550 days, because the cabinet leaves it to the polls, if the climate agreement shows that nothing is actually going to happen, that the cabinet now seems to be taking the lead, but that it does not want to be concrete and that it knew much earlier that the climate agreement was not actually going to propose anything and that it simply didn't do anything all that time, then how can we expect the voters to say on 20 March: you know what, we are going to give these people that space again? I think it's bad for confidence in politics when the cabinet comes up with action and vision a few days before the elections. That's unbelievable. I think we underestimate the voter, because the voter cannot be fooled every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u165	At this point, we are in complete agreement. The cabinet met for a very long time. There were tables, then there was a cockpit, with 17 men in the cockpit, I would withdraw the landing rights of such an aircraft, then there was an agreement that Mr Dijkhoff said he didn't know where it came from either, and then we had to wait for the figures. And now the cabinet's gonna do something. Of course, the cabinet doesn't deserve the trust either. People have to vote for other parties. But the good news is that even after 20 March VVDs were elected, that is inevitable in a democracy, and they have now heard from their leader that they are in favour of CO taxation and that they are in favour of a fair purchasing power policy. That's good news. No, the cabinet certainly does not deserve the confidence; it has wasted a year and a half. Nothing has happened in the areas of pensions, labour market and climate. There has been a lot of meetings and the cabinet has given a lot of compliments to itself. That should not be rewarded, but we should be a little cheerful, because in the end, Mrs Thieme's party has made a big contribution to this, and thinking about climate policy is changing. The polluter is going to pay and purchasing power is getting fairer. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u166	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give it to Mr Wilders, who speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u167	Mr President, thank you very much. There they were next to each other yesterday at the press conference on the climate agreement. I think it was at the Ministry of General Affairs Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Wiebes. Representatives of the cabinet and both members of the biggest lie party the Netherlands has ever known, the VVD. Two politicians with sweat on their foreheads. Afraid they're gonna get their ass kicked next Wednesday by the voter because of their hysterical climate policy and all that money knocking. Afraid of losing their job. And then they thought, "Let's come up with a trick." Let us try to fool Dutch citizens again; perhaps they will fall for it again. The Prime Minister is also very experienced in this, because he has been fooling the electorate for years. "Everyone will benefit greatly from economic growth." "No more money to the Greeks." "€1,000 in your wallet." We all remember his lies. Anything to stay in power, even if that means that Jesse Klaver of GroenLinks now dictates the course of the VVD and the cabinet. Congratulations, Mr. Clover. My condolences, the Netherlands. Rutte is now the political slave of GroenLinks. This is not only bad for the idiotic climate policy, but also bad for other things, such as immigration policy. Because with Jesse on his lap, the boundaries are only going to open further and we're about to get into it, because he has a lot of influence now, and only more immigrants, more Islam. The VVD finally put the Netherlands in the bulky litter yesterday. Prime Minister Rutte is now trying to wear out the climate agreement as a kind of usury policy to the people. For example, it was said earlier today that out of the 600 measures in the agreement, only 128 were finally passed on. This means that in reality it is only going to be much and much more expensive and that yesterday's bills can actually go into the trash. Moreover, as has already been said, the enormous costs that citizens themselves will have to pay, such as the isolation of their homes or the purchase of a heat pump, have not been taken into account at all. Also, the purchasing power effects 400,000 Dutch people have been muffled away in that usury policy. Mr. Chairman. The reality remains that this year people at home will pay almost €350 more for their energy bill. And one week, one week before the elections, the Prime Minister suddenly promises that this high energy bill will be compensated, that there will be a CO levy for companies. But what exactly this is going to look like is not told before next Wednesday, but only after the elections, somewhere in April. How crazy do you think the people are, Mr. Rutte? Who's gonna believe your election talk anymore? This announced CO levy for companies is actually pure folly, because that too will simply be passed on to that citizen. I say to the Dutch electorate: don't believe Rutte and his friends, don't fall for it! It is going to cost billions below the line, billions that we are not going to spend on care, which we are not going to spend on pensions and which we are not going to spend on the lower burden on ordinary people and women. And that while the Netherlands is only responsible for 0.35% of the global CO emissions. And that while if we all meet these strange climate targets, the temperature will rise less by only 0.00007 C. And that's insane, so don't fall for it! The truth is, they're only making some promises now because there's going to be elections next Wednesday because they're afraid of their own asses. But they're unreliable. Don't believe them! Don't fall for it! There is only one way to ensure that the energy bill is really reduced, that there are no billions going to that climate hysteria, and that is to send Prime Minister Rutte and his coalition home next Wednesday. Vote them away! Vote Rutte away and send them home, all of you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr. Chairman. D66 is in this cabinet for the climate. We're in this cabinet to get Paris. That is why we have agreed with the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union the greenest government agreement ever. We agreed that we will halve CO and other greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands by 2030, that we will share the burden of that climate transition fairly between households and companies and that we will ensure that industry also contributes to reducing the emissions of their activities. And that is not something only the four coalition groups consider important. We have seen over the last few weeks that most of the Netherlands actually support us, with strikes by students who organized an impressive march here in The Hague or last Sunday in Amsterdam during the climate march, where despite pouring rain tens of thousands of Dutch, families and companies protested for climate policy. And last week, we got the credit for the concept climate agreement. They actually had good news for us, because Paris is in sight and it can be cheaper than we thought a year ago. But there is also work to be done; it needs to be sharper and more concrete on a number of points. That is why I am pleased that the coalition groups with the cabinet also went through this week by announcing a CO levy for industry and announcing a shift in the energy tax from households to companies, so that people will see on their energy bill next year that the energy tax is going down. And we've also agreed more ambitions. I refer to the agricultural sector, which has offered to do more. I call limiting the CO storage, because we really want to make that transition, and not continue to invest in old techniques. Mr. Chairman. It's important that we move forward now. I call on the Cabinet to work out these additional agreements, such as the CO levy for industry, together with companies, but also with green NGOs such as Greenpeace and Nature and Environment, which have also made constructive proposals in recent weeks on how to create such a CO levy. The final climate agreement is important, but there are also a lot of measures that we can start with and for which preparations can already be started. I'd like to ask the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr Jetten says that the agricultural sector has offered to do more. Yeah, for money! We have to pay a lot of subsidies to the agricultural sector. How can Mr Jetten explain that to his constituents? There are also more and more protests against all these agricultural subsidies from Europe. And after, for example, over the last ten years, we have already paid EUR 2.5 billion in subsidies to those manure plants, we will soon have to increase the amount of subsidies from the CDA and LTO's lobbying activities to manure plants and pot-tight stables in which animal welfare is not guaranteed. Does D66 say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u171	I was not really surprised by that offer from the agricultural sector, because I said at the start of the climate agreement: those ambitions, which are huge for agriculture, can be raised very well, because we are choosing to make a switch to that circular agriculture. I have spoken with Mr Tjeerd de Groot, our spokesman for agriculture, to many people in this sector over the last year and a half. What strikes me then is that a lot of farmers, often young farmers too, want to make that change too. They understand that this is no longer possible with the bio-industry, with the limited animal welfare and with the excessive emissions of that agricultural sector. Those farmers are actually asking us to help us make that change to circular agriculture. They say: put European agricultural subsidies no longer into flat support for farmers' wallets, but into the greening of that sector. That's exactly what we're going to do in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u172	No, these subsidies are mainly for the bio-industry. Because organic farming does not require manure factories, it does not demand dense stables, because that is where the animals are kept out. This is the support of the bio-industry, on which Mr Jetten says that it is slowly becoming out of date. So I ask again: how is it that this cabinet agrees to subsidise an agricultural sector, a livestock farm that is already in the infusion of subsidies, which is polluting, and which we are in fact only further rewarding by simply allowing them to continue with unsustainable solutions such as manure factories and pot-tight stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u173	I think Mrs Thieme is well aware that D66 too has long wanted to get rid of the current European agricultural subsidies, and that we want to use that money to help green the agricultural sector and make it more sustainable. And I think that we are choosing a sensible route, where we are focusing on good and responsible food, but also ensuring that farmers can earn a decent living, and that we are therefore helping farmers to experience that transition in the years to come. And let us take advantage of this climate agreement, and the Minister's vision of circular agriculture, to ensure that we accelerate that transition. And then I would like to find Mrs Thieme on my side to constantly question the cabinet critically. Is what you are doing now from the climate agreement, aimed at that transition to circular agriculture, or are we still stuck in that bio-industry? You really think I'm on your side not to let that last one happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u174	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u175	The Planning Office for the Environment, as well as the Environment Council, the government's official advisory body, have said that it is better to reduce livestock. Then let us ensure a warm clean-up. Let us ensure that farmers can switch to other forms, such as arable farming or other forms of sustainable enterprise. Surely it would be much better and more effective to put our energy and our money into that? That is also what the Planning Office for the Environment recommends. I don't see anything of that on the A4's of this cabinet. Do I think that Mr Jetten is on my side when I say that we really need to focus on reducing livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u176	In fact, I fully agree with almost everything Mrs Thieme says. We are also committed to a warm clean-up of the livestock. There are also a lot of pig farmers who like to cooperate in this, because they also see that it is no longer possible to do so. The A4 of the cabinet, the letter from this week's cabinet, indeed contained only a very limited number of rules on agriculture. But it was very clear: we are going to increase those ambitions. I think that the circular agricultural vision of the cabinet should be the starting point. Let us fight together to ensure that these additional ambitions go to circular agriculture and not to sustain the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u177	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u178	So I understand that Mr Jetten is open to the possibility of reducing livestock? Now a very small particle is intended for a select group of pig farmers, in Brabant in particular. This has to be looked at for the whole of the Netherlands, including the other livestock sectors. Is it true that Mr Jetten is open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u179	Yes. In the philosophy of warm clean-up, in which we do this together with the sector, I am absolutely open to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr. Chairman. I was just saying to the cabinet that it is time to move forward to ensure that we reach a final climate agreement quickly and that some of the things that are in it are being worked out as quickly as possible. Otherwise, Madam President, allow Mrs Marijnissen to speak first. Then I'll come to my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u182	Mr Jetten began his speech by saying that "D66 is in this climate cabinet." That is good, but the climate and the measures that need to be taken cost a lot of money. We have just seen a whole debate about exactly how much that would be and who would have to pay for it. But one thing is certain: households pay much more. The energy bill goes up by over €330. Now you say and the cabinet said yesterday that the energy bill is going down. Are you prepared to clarify exactly how much tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u183	To be honest, I cannot do that, and neither can Mrs Marijnissen, because that will vary from one household to another. The lowest income groups and the low middle income groups have also seen that in the passing-through payments are now hit hardest, not so much by the climate agreement but by the total climate policy. Let us call on the cabinet to ensure, in the coming weeks, that they shift the energy tax in such a way that, in particular, the low income groups and middle income groups benefit most from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u184	Yeah, but of course that still leaves the question of how much. I am also asking because yesterday we heard from Mr Segers on television that the coalition has been talking for a month about the changes that were presented yesterday. I can imagine that if you've been meeting for a month, there are two such important things coming out. The big companies are going to pay a fairer share and the energy bill is going to go down and you're going to come up with that six days before the elections, it might be nice to give the voter a little more clarity than just a vague promise for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u185	First of all, thanks to Mrs Marijnissen for naming herself that, as coalition groups, we have, of course, been thinking together for a long time over the last few weeks about what we should do with this concept of climate change agreement. It was just suggested by others that in 24 hours we had put that together as quickly as possible. Why are we bringing that up six days before the election? Because there are now the credit transfers of the draft climate agreement. That is not a date we have chosen as coalition groups. That's a date chosen by the planning agencies. But I come to Mrs Marijnissen's point. Once again, I can mention concrete amounts here, but it will be different for each family. So I don't want to make those promises here because I'm not sure how much I can keep them. I note, however, that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet has caused a huge increase in the energy tax, that we have done a bit more with the government agreement of this cabinet and that we all had to see at the beginning of this year that that was really too gratuitous. This huge increase in the energy bill of €300............................................................................................................................................................................................ The cabinet can't do anything about market developments. We can do something about the increase caused by policy and energy taxation. I think that's the size we need to think about, but I can't promise an exact amount here. Other politicians have done that in the past, but that always turned out wrong. But the call is clear: shift the energy tax from households to companies, so that from next year onwards, those households will see that it really goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u186	I think this is too easy, six days before the election. Mr Jetten also seems to me to contradict himself a little. First he says: we couldn't come up with it sooner, because we had to wait for the cash-outs. He was right to point out that, of course, it had been known for a long time that the increase in the energy bill was far more severe than had always been argued by this cabinet. So you've known that for a long time. We have known since yesterday that the cabinet has been conclaved for a month that the energy bill is going down. Chapeau! That's good news. But then it is not too much to ask for clarification six days before the elections, rather than simply sending the voter into the forest with an empty promise, such as "yes, that bill goes down, but how and what exactly, we don't know yet."?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u187	I would find it cheap electoral rhetoric to mention a concrete amount now. We have indicated the direction: the energy tax shifts from households to companies and there will be a CO levy for industry. With these two measures, we will ensure that people at home can experience it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u188	You're going to a rounding, at least... Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u189	Do I hear correctly that Mr Jetten is saying that this energy regime will not come until next year? I don't think that's going to happen at all, but you're saying that it's your intention not to do that this year, but not until next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u190	If the cabinet can come up with a way of getting that done this year, I wholeheartedly support it. But it seems difficult to me, because we are setting the energy tax rates and they will then start on 1 January of the new calendar year. If we can do it sooner, please, but then I'll hear from the cabinet how that could be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u191	Well, if we can do it sooner. You know, of course, that for you sacred planning agency has made a mistake with the calculations. It would've been what was it? It increased by €103, but it was almost €340 on average. And now, indeed a week before the elections, you say: yes, we should do that differently. If you want to do something for those people at home that you, and not just you, but also Prime Minister Rutte and your entire coalition, are suspicious, because they are still waiting for them to get that huge relief and benefit from the economic growth that is there, then you will have to do so now. Then you'll have to do it now. If, for technical reasons, it can only be done later, you must say: it must be done retroactively from 1 January this year. Then at least your promise is worth something. Whether it comes technically in a month or two months' time, can I ask you whether you think that this increase in energy should be reversed retroactively from 1 January this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u192	Everyone is very fixated on next week's election date, but we are working with the coalition to make sure that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u193	Answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u194	...we cut CO emissions by half by 2030. We have now agreed that we are going to share these burdens more fairly between companies and households. This therefore means a shift of charges from households to companies. The sooner we can do it, the better, but I can't promise here that we can do it next month or in a few months. I know we can start next year. If the cabinet can arrange it sooner, please. But that's gonna be hard. We just have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u195	I can't get an answer. I won't make the joke I made earlier, but I'm not that journalist. The question wasn't, would you? The question was: is your intention to do so, because once again, do you offer people something to do so retroactively from 1 January this year? Whether you can technically do that from next month or from July 1st, is that what you're saying? Because it's not for nothing a week before the election. You can't blame people for not believing you. It has happened many times that people were told something before the elections, which did not happen after the elections. The energy bill of people at home is now increased by €103 by €300 instead of €103. You say it should be less. If you want to prove that that is not an election talk, are you prepared to say: am I going to do so retroactively from 1 January? That is my specific question. When you do that, it is verse two, but you say: with retroactive effect from 1 January this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u196	Again, I can't make that promise here, because if I did, that would be cheap electoral rhetoric. As a cabinet, as a coalition, we have set out to reduce income tax, so that people at home in their pockets will notice: the economy is improving and I am also improving. The energy bill has been disappointing, but the cabinet has said that it has no effect on the purchasing power plates. And yet, as coalition groups, we believe that people need to make more progress. That is why we want a reduction in the energy tax on the energy bill. If I now promised to compensate for this year's increase, that is a promise that I do not know if I can deliver, and I think that is cheap electoral rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u197	Then I conclude that it's just hollow phrases. You don't even know if your coalition will still exist in 30 days' time. You can say "well, we'll do that sometime next year," but that's pure hollow electoral rhetoric. You will probably lose the majority of the coalition in the First Chamber and you will now make a promise in a year's time. Then you shouldn't say that, then you shouldn't say that. You promised two things to the voter yesterday. One is, we're going to compensate for the energy bill. Two is: we're gonna come up with that horrible Jetten tax, that CO tax. This, too, will eventually be passed on to the citizen for 80%, 90%, perhaps 100%. If you don't admit it, you'll be doing pure election rhetoric. Then the people at home now know that if they don't want to, they just have to vote you out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u198	I have just called on the cabinet to get to work quickly on drawing up the proposals. Then I would say: give priority to the CO tax, to the shift of the energy tax. Then hopefully within a few months we will know when it can enter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mr Jetten made it quite clear that Mr Segers did so yesterday, and that he had already thought about the other distribution of the energy bill and the CO levy in the last month. Do you also have any idea if it is not a question of precise figures or, if so, to what extent part of that revenue from the CO levy goes to the citizen? Or, in accordance with yesterday's cabinet's letter, is it fully used for greening? You've thought about that, haven't you? As Mr Wilders just said, 80% of the CO levy is passed on to the citizen. Have you at least thought about this and do you think it is reasonable that the citizen should get back some of the extra revenue from that CO levy in his own wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u200	The letter is very clear about that. We are going to introduce a CO levy so that the polluting industry pays for its emissions. We invest the proceeds back in the greening of the industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u201	So you say, with the cabinet, that there will be no possibility of getting back some of the burden added by the CO levy, which is ultimately 80% paid by the citizen by way of a reduction in the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u202	So we do that by also working on the energy tax, so that the tax on the energy bill goes down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u203	Those are two separate things. When you talk about a CO levy, you don't talk about a few dozen euros. It will raise €50 8 billion! The question is whether citizens will also get a share of the 8 billion, which ultimately pays the citizens 80%, i.e. 6.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u204	It is not yet a question of amounts of that levy. A sensible CO levy is being developed. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that companies will pass on part of that CO levy in consumer prices. I think it was Mr Van der Staaij who was right to say: I can assume that once the final climate package is in place, the cabinet will look again at the purchasing power figures. Then we know what the effect of the CO levy is, including on the purchasing power of the people at home. If it is necessary to compensate, there is a debate that we can then have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u205	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u206	I also said we're not gonna talk about numbers right now. It'll come later. But do you want to embrace the principle that a part, a percentage of that additional revenue from the CO-tax is going to return to the citizen in any case in the billions of dollars? We'll see how much that has to be later. So far you have said: no, it is used entirely for greening and therefore not for the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u207	I think that every time we look at the impact of global climate policy on household purchasing power. If we then have to compensate for all households or for specific groups, then we have to do so, but I do not link that to one specific climate measure. The climate action CO levy industry is intended to force companies to meet their CO reduction targets and accelerate the greening of industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u208	I actually thought it was quite a good question from Mrs Marijnissen about what amounts we are talking about. That prompted me to ask the following question. You've been negotiating this with each other for four weeks. These are the cockpit types: the directors and the group chairmen. Hasn't there been an amount or a figure mentioned once in those four weeks? That conversation only took place orally, as in "what do you think?" And "what do you think?', or were there any pieces delivered, have there been scenarios discussed and memos written? I'd find that interesting just before the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u209	I find it really fascinating that everyone is so bewildered that we, as four group chairmen of the coalition since the presentation of the draft climate agreement itself, have remained in conversation, and have looked at how this concept climate agreement falls into society. Are there any concerns, any criticisms? We could all draw that. There were concerns as to whether the industry will do enough. There were concerns about an increase in the energy bill. There were concerns about oversubsidisation of the electric car. Then, as coalition group chairmen, you talk to each other, and you say, if this is the hot issue that this climate agreement might get stuck with, are we prepared to do business with each other to resolve these dilemmas? We have found each other in that and that has led to the directional choices that we have now given to the cabinet. It is now really up to the cabinet itself to work this out with these climate tables and to present a final climate agreement at the end of April.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u210	That was an answer, but not to the question I asked. The question I asked was: isn't there any talk of numbers, amounts, numbers in those four weeks and was that based on pieces, memos, scenarios? That was the question I asked. I have just heard the rest of the answer in reply to Mr Wilders' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u211	Yeah, but it's not much more exciting than the way I just explained it. Of course, we have philosophized about how much euro you would like to reduce that energy tax on the energy bill, but I would like to say again: I cannot promise the exact amount here, because it will be different per household. You'll understand that too, because you've been sitting on the buttons of those purchasing power cards for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u212	Mr President, it is difficult, because then you will get a repeat of moves, because there will be no answer to my question. I wasn't talking about "exciting," I wasn't talking about "bewildered." I asked a factual question. You negotiated for four weeks and we were surprised yesterday with the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u213	Yeah, but negotiated... We've just been talking to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u214	I wasn't finished with my question. So that question is legitimate, since you say to Mrs Marijnissen that you cannot name any amounts at all. You almost make it suspicious that she asks how much people will get back from their energy bill. That's a normal question, if you put it triumphantly on your website. My question was: has money or numbers been negotiated and was it based on pieces and memos? If that's the case, you'd better tell me now. It's one thing to organize a surprise, but if you actually know what it's about and you negotiated it for four weeks, you should also tell us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u215	Mr Asscher is trying to make it more exciting than it is. I have explained to him what we, as group chairmen, have done to each other in recent weeks. It's just that. We have given a clear direction to the cabinet on how to deal with the passing on of the draft climate agreement. I am pleased that you have given us an enthusiastic response to this. I would also like to invite you to look with us over the next few weeks to see if the cabinet is going to work out these directional choices in a good way. Or should we put an extra tooth on it when that final package arrives at the end of April? I believe that we all want to achieve this half-life of CO emissions, in a way that is also affordable for people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u216	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u217	Finally, this is a repeat of Jetten. We don't know if there are memos, we don't know if there are numbers, we always get a different answer to the question. I'm not talking about "exciting." You negotiate in secret. You don't want to tell me if that's based on pieces or memos. You're sending Mrs. Marijnissen with a little rug in the reed. That means people don't know what they can rely on. You scared them first with a higher energy bill. You said first with the help of Dijkhoff that everything is going wrong. Now there's good news. Then tell me what it is. I'm going to ask your colleagues, too, but this is really not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u218	Mr President, I will conclude my speech. As I said at the beginning, D66 joined the cabinet to achieve ambitious climate policy. Together with VVD, CDA and ChristenUnion, we have concluded the greenest government agreement ever. That was critical. There were scaremakers who told all kinds of hysterical images about the costs and obligations of the climate agreement. There were boo-callers standing on the sidelines and telling each time that it's not good enough. And there are parties that are doing business with each other in order to actually achieve this ambitious climate policy. The climate chooser therefore has a clear choice on 20 March. Do you choose the scaremakers, do you choose the boo-callers, or do you choose parties that actually live up to those green ambitions? Then the voter has one clear choice and that is to vote for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u219	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday was an important day in a lengthy process. It was a next step. We're a long way from here. So when people say it's not clear what's going to happen, that's true. What is clear is that the cabinet and coalition have dealt with the passing on of the plans of the climate tables as promised. The goal is to reduce CO. The goal is to pass the Netherlands on cleanly to our children. But we don't do it every way we can. We do it in a way that takes account of affordability for households and takes into account the ways in which we help people do business. It's a way that takes time and also builds peace. It also goes in a way that ensures that business pays its fair share, and that we also look at the burden-sharing between households and businesses. We have also looked at the following. As I pointed out in January, the plans of the climate tables raised a number of concerns regarding affordability and burden-sharing, as well as how to stimulate people and how to deal with certain issues. I told you at that time that we were not going to take over: you have to think for yourself and adjust where necessary. I think it is a good sign that the cabinet and coalition have been able to show that they can do so immediately. Changes have been proposed and announced in a number of respects in relation to the plans of the climate tables. We're not there yet. All these other matters will also need to be examined in detail. They must also be discussed in the Chamber, and then decisions must be taken. But I think it is right to point out that we are applying a reduction in the household energy bill compared to those plans. And at the car domain, we're gonna take advantage of the moment when people make a choice. You're not gonna tell people who have a car right now, and they just drive it and don't do anything wrong with it, and they're gonna say, "Your month's expenses are gonna go up." No, you're gonna bet more when someone buys a car. Most Dutch buy their car second hand. You want to tell the people who are going to buy a new car in the showroom, and the moment there are just electric alternatives, you want to buy that electric. If you're gonna renew your lease fleet and you're gonna buy hundreds of cars, pack those electric cars. And if you intervene on that, you're not gonna burden anyone. Then you don't have to pay anymore. But if you, while there is an electric and better alternative, make the choice to buy a petrol car in ten years' time, then you will have to pay more for it, because there is a good or actually much better alternative if you look at the effects on our society. That's how we look at it as a VVD. I'm glad we got a first strike yesterday. And it gives me confidence. I think it will also help to bring people into these developments over the next 31 years. We should not give them the feeling that we are going to tell them how to live here in The Hague and that they have to do all kinds of things from us. But if we offer a lot of questions from society, but also a lot, then it will end up in Dutch, in Dutch. Then people sit at home and count, "I have to change my car. Gee, it's even better for my wallet too, so I'm making the choice that's more pleasant for society when it comes to the climate, but that's also normal for my own wallet."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u221	Mr Dijkhoff has already mentioned the energy tax for people. It went up last year. The promise is now that it will fall by 2020, but we really need to ensure that it goes down this year. People are having trouble paying the energy bill right now. Is Mr Dijkhoff prepared to look with us at how we are going to lower that bill in 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u222	I'm gonna be very careful with this, because I know that if a coalition party says they're gonna look at it, that might give us impressions. So literally "watch it" and find it fantastic if we could and if we manage to find something on it? Yes. But I'm gonna be extra reluctant about it. I know that when you say that as a coalition, that can create expectations. And I don't know if I can make it happen. I know that I can make it happen from 2020 with that announced slide. Hopefully there will be more, but I can't guarantee that either. I'd like to look at this too, but I don't have all the information that I know I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u223	But then I have an informative question. Has it not been discussed in the coalition over the past month whether you could settle this before 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u224	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u225	That's a very honest answer, but at least that's striking. That account has already been increased for 2019, not by the climate agreement, but by the policy of the cabinet. We should take that step now. We have already made proposals for this in the autumn and we have now looked again to see if it could be done before 2019. In terms of implementation, it can be done by the energy suppliers, if we decide quickly. Will Mr Dijkhoff at least say that we are going to do everything in our power to get it done on the government's side to give people a discount on their energy bill as early as 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u226	I'll start with the first one. I understand you're thinking, "Why didn't they?" Sometimes we are reminded that that was just before next week's election, but then it would have been smarter not to look at the agreement so much and now just say: you know what, that bill is so high, we'll do something nice on it. But yesterday's package has nothing to do with that. This has to do with the passing on of the measures that we have yet to take and the effects of the things that we still have to do. Honestly, I think it's pretty pure that we didn't involve that. Apart from that, I think it's a legitimate wish and I'm going to take a serious look at it. But I'm very careful with that kind of promise when I don't know what the further effects are. So you won't hear me say we're gonna do everything we can. We've looked at it before; you're right to point that out. Then we did come to a... What you want to give, we figured it out, but how to cover it was more complicated. I don't know if that would be any less complicated right now. I use many words because I am reluctant and hesitant with the expectation I want to awaken, but of course I share the motive. If it were possible, that would be nice. I also believe that there is no blockade for the cabinet to look seriously at this and let it know what can and cannot be done and what the consequences are. Just focusing on the fun side isn't enough. You also need to see what responsibility you have to take on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u227	I'm rounding up. I really taste space in the coalition, no matter how carefully formulated. I am pleased that the cabinet will have the opportunity to take a serious look at the proposals to reduce the citizens' energy bill as early as 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u228	As group chairmen, I think we have all been in provinces to campaign in recent weeks. I have also been to the countryside and have spoken with the citizens there. They complain, particularly about livestock farming, about the manure plants: there is a great deal of smell and nuisance and there is a fear that such a thing could explode. Those are all concerns. They asked me, "Why are there these manure factories?" Yes, the cabinet believes that this will allow us to develop a kind of green energy and reduce CO emissions. However, the Planning Office for the Environment shows that, if you put money into the manure fermentation, you have hardly any revenue. So you do cause a lot of nuisance in the environment, but it doesn't do anything in terms of CO gain. Yesterday we heard from the Prime Minister that more subsidies are going to agriculture. That means more manure factories and more pot-tight stables. What does Mr Dijkhoff say to all those people who are already suffering from all those subsidies and who cannot understand that the VVD is for such a subsidy, a left-wing hobby because, for example, Mr Dijkhoff, who is probably also known as "boot"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u229	I'm just thinking if I've ever called it a left-wing hobby. Actually, I don't think so, but maybe Google knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u230	Your party leader did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u231	Look, subsidies are an instrument that's also in our arsenal. As a VVD, we are also sometimes in favour of subsidies. It depends on what you use them for and whether you encourage something that has a positive social effect and can stand on your own feet, or whether it is the permanent maintenance of something that in society actually lacks sufficient support to exist on its own. I think that in agriculture you have to deal with the transition carefully, because you have to deal with families who have their business in it and who have been in it with their family business for generations. I think there is room for CO reduction, but you have to do it carefully and see if there are any disadvantages that you have to compensate and if there are things that Mrs Thieme might think are suboptimal, but which are better than doing nothing, which you thereby subsidise. You're gonna have to take that transition slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u232	At the moment it doesn't matter what Mrs Thieme thinks about it, it's mainly about what the Plan Bureau for the Environment has passed on about those manure plants. It says that EUR 2.5 billion has already gone in the last 10 years. They're fund-raisers, and it's not gonna do anything for the climate. If I listen carefully to Mr Dijkhoff's reasoning, he says: given the fact that there are many problems in rural areas, that many citizens have problems with the fact that the manure plants are there, and that it is actually only a subsidy and not a very good result according to the Planning Office for the Environment, are you not going to grant more subsidies for those types of manure plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u233	What I'm not going to do is look at it in isolation by instrument. What we are going to do is to look on the agricultural table at what is being offered, what is wise to do, how much more you could achieve there compared to the task that was there first, what it costs, and whether that is wise in the broad package. Fortunately, this is a general debate, so I can refer a great deal to the debates with the specialist in the specific area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u234	Finalizing, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u235	The Prime Minister brought out with much tamsam the message that the agricultural sector has offered to do more against climate change. It was clearly a headline of his good news show. I also expect Mr Dijkhoff to know that the Planning Office for the Environment has already said that the manure plants, which receive the subsidy, are not going to produce anything and that the subsidy should at least not go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u236	I have seen that the Planning Office for the Environment has said that the supply of the agricultural table to do more than it has been asked to do is viable and can be done. So you can make choices there to do more. This is cost-effective because you need to be more careful with the whole sector, the interests and the farms in it. You have to make the choice if you want to bet it. At first glance, other elements of the table are planning to cost more euros per megaton. We'll look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u237	Is it possible for Mr Dijkhoff to discuss that part of the proceeds of a CO levy can also be used for households, for a fund to maintain employment and for other important social purposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u238	Then I'm really gonna speculate, because then you need to know all the effects. Nothing's unspeakable. I just don't want to give the impression again that I have the idea, looking through my eye hairs, that there would be a lot of room for that. The goal is greening. The aim is not necessarily additional taxation. The aim is that you have a levy to stimulate less emissions, so that there will eventually be less revenue from that levy. Well, I've been told so far that you'd have to reserve the bulk of it. I believe that's also in the plans of the PvdA itself to provide resources to help with that greening. Actually, you say to a company: you spend it on us or on greening. I don't know how much space that leaves. I think we should pay attention to it anyway. I would prefer a system that makes it possible for certain companies for which it is very difficult to remain active and not to fire people, rather than to take that loss and set up a fund to compensate for it. I prefer to avoid it and involve it in the design.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u239	I broadly agree with that. You need to do it in a smart way, so that companies green faster and thereby strengthen their competitiveness. In fact, our proposal contained a three-parter. Give a part back to companies to innovate, a part of a fund that you will still need for good guidance from employees, for example from Hemwegcentrale, and a part to households. I think that third part is important, too, if you want to do it in an honest way. I think I heard you say well that you do not rule that out and find it negotiable. In the letter from the cabinet, it is excluded. That makes it politically relevant that you are a little more open in that. That's good, because then we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u240	I would point out, however, that, in order to do justice to the Cabinet letter, no mention has been made of using part of the revenue for the energy bill. Earlier in the letter there is already a burden increase for business. We are doing this anyway, regardless of what the CO levy does, in order to reduce this energy tax for households.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u241	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u242	I saw that. Only, the cabinet sends a letter. In formal terms, we are then discussed as the Second Chamber. I have heard you say that you think it is negotiable that part of the income also goes to households. You rightly say: you need a large part to ensure that you retain employment. You need a big part to stimulate innovation. I agree. But you think it's negotiable. That means we can talk about that by the time the cabinet moves forward. I think it's important to do it in an honest way. So it was a positive comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u243	I just wanted to let you know there was something in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u244	I would like to know from Mr Dijkhoff why he is actually letting the fate of the VVD and the cabinet be determined from now on by GroenLinks, by Mr Klaver. There he is: Jesse Klaver with his CO tax; his Jesse tax. Because that's what you did. That's what you did. You have implemented a GroenLinks policy, hoping that Mr Klaver and his party will support you in future, as soon as you lose your majority in the Upper House. I think that's the reality, too. So the VVD has put the fate of her party but also of our country in the hands of that man. And it's up to you. It's good for the voter to hear that. Mr Klaver has run away from the negotiations. He didn't want to be involved in immigration, and now he's in charge. He's the head of the cabinet. Why did you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u245	Mr Wilders has a rich tradition when it comes to naming cabinet bosses who are not in it. But he is right about one thing: that the options for support are small. On the other hand, however, you must be honest with the cabinet, and you must say that the votes you want to gather do not want to change the policy, take responsibility or do something about it. That's what you want to be able to criticize with more people. This is also a way of doing things, but with that you will close another option for the cabinet to gain support. That is what you must say to the electorate: that if they vote for you, the policy will not become less GroenLinks. What I am not doing is that it will be a disappointment for Mr Klaver to say: say how you want it. We're thinking ourselves. When Mr. Klaver was yelling, "It has to be sister, it has to be like this," I said, "I want to see what the best way is. Mr Klaver's charges are still being charged. So I don't know if he's come up with the plan we're coming up with. I can only say that the plan that the tables came up with is not working. That's a conclusion, and then you have to do other business. As I said earlier in that discussion, I will wait for the facts and figures and then make a choice of wise policies. Not because another party wants it or not, but because I want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u246	At the PVV you had your chance, and you let it go yourself. We have become the second party of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u247	We had our chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u248	Yeah, you missed your chance. I will also explain to you why, as far as your memory is concerned. We became the second party of the Netherlands at the last Dutch Parliament election. We have received almost one and a half million votes and you have not even had the courtesy to sit down with us, let alone negotiate. So don't talk about the PVV not wanting the voter... No, you put us in the cold. That may, I think, be scandalous, undemocratic, but now you are going to Mr Klaver. Not to the PVV in the beginning, two years ago, with which you could have pursued a normal policy, with which you could have closed the borders, with which you could have restricted immigration. No, you put your policy in the hands of GroenLinks. Do you hear what I'm saying? The VVD puts the policy in the hands of GroenLinks. And now it's climate policy. But what if he's the one who's gonna help your cabinet get a majority? Then come his next demands. Then he's gonna say: stricter immigration, none of it; fewer asylum seekers, none of it. And then that policy will slowly shift. As I said in my own term, you put the Netherlands in the dirt. The VVD is now a slave of GroenLinks. Now it's the climate, soon it's immigration. You put the Netherlands in the dirt. That's what people have to think about on Wednesday!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u249	People don't have to do anything. They can be free, choose and think what they want. The Netherlands does not stand by the dirt. Mr Wilders knows that himself. And what he says about two years ago: he called the whole campaign that he didn't want to be seen anywhere near the VVD and Rutte. The only chance that PVV rules and would like to participate is as the party leader of our party... It is right that you are proud that you are the second party of the Netherlands, but I am also proud that we have just gotten some more votes from the Dutch electorate, from the Dutch who see that we are far from the dirt, that we will never put the Netherlands there. And you said, "You don't even have to talk to me." Then you are going to act very brave with retroactive effect, as if you were willing to do so and as if you have found the courage to rule and do all those things that we agree on at once after a few years. That's the fiction department. The reality is that, as a cabinet, we have already decided to pursue climate policy and that I am also in favour of it in substance. It has not been pushed down my throat to make sure the Netherlands is cleaner and that I will be able to make it cleaner for my daughter. No one has to force me to do that. I looked into it. I do have a few demands. I also see a lot of things that Mr Klaver called for yesterday as additional wishes from him, which I say I do not agree with. After the election, we'll just make laws. That is what we are going to vote on. If they have a majority here, they can go to the Senate. That includes all of our colleagues and yours. Then we'll see how many of them are in there. Then any party can vote for it. If we have a proposal from which Mr Klaver becomes Mr Rosenmöller: Other Times. Back to ours says 'I didn't think so', while Mr Wilders says 'well, that seems nice to me', then you can just vote for it. The key lies no longer with Mr Klaver and his party than with you and your party, because that is how the Senate works happily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u250	No, it's the other way around. You're not making any demands, he's making demands from today on. As a VVD, you introduced a CO levy for companies. The Prime Minister said on the radio a few weeks ago "we're not going to do that, a CO levy for companies, that's not the VVD's." We're not gonna do that. He wanted to look at some bonus-malus system that was in it, and he might have wanted to improve it. But no carbon tax for companies. Now you're gonna do it: introduce the Jesse tax. You're just gonna do that. So he's making demands. With this you have incorporated him not his person, but his party GroenLinks in the majority that is immediately needed in the Upper Chamber. That's how he's gonna decide the policy. He thus determines what happens to climate and his party immediately what happens to immigration or what happens to taxes. You do not work with the PVV or any other party, but with GroenLinks. The VVD and GroenLinks! Do you realize what you've done? What's the voter gonna think about that, Wednesday? A vote on the VVD is a vote on GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u251	No, that's when you vote for the PVV, because then you think you can get something on the right, but they never do anything, so then the only option for a cabinet is to talk to parties that do want to do something, and unfortunately they are often on the left. This answer may not be my strongest ever, but it is certainly not weaker than the Jesse tax, because that term is not going to stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u252	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u253	What I've said before, here too, Mr. Chairman... After a long question there may be a somewhat longer answer, but I still had speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u254	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u255	What I have said before is that I am not concerned with instrument A or instrument B. That is the difference with other parties, who say right from the start: it must be through a levy. The VVD says that the companies must start to emit less. That's gonna cost them money. We can help them with that. We need to be able to enforce that. Eventually, you have to do so in a way that does not lead to job losses, because then you have even more CO emissions abroad and the Dutch jobs are gone. I have always said: I am not fixed on a levy. The tables have come up with something. I said, let's see how it's calculated. I also said that if a CO levy works better and is better for the Netherlands, we will do so. The VVD is not there to do the best in the short term for a handful of companies. The VVD is there to do the best for the whole of the Netherlands. If there's something that doesn't work, we're not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u256	You said in the De Telegraaf of 12 January that the citizen was not very involved in the climate tables. Through politics, so for the first time tonight, citizens would be better involved. You also said at the time: if I have to choose, I will, after all, choose the citizen. In view of what is in the letter and what has been decided, what is now showing that the citizen, more than you thought or feared in January, is coming out reasonably well? I don't have a signal yet that this is happening. Mr Jetten just said that nothing of the carbon tax, which will soon be paid by the citizen for 80%, will be returned, at least not directly. My question to you is also: are you prepared to do so? But above all: are you now able to prove that the citizen, who you thought was on the sidelines at the time, can now get through politics what also increases support for the citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u257	Sure. If you look at the calculated plans of the tables and the correction made immediately yesterday by the cabinet and coalition, you already have two significant points. One is the energy bill. In any case, we will reduce it for citizens by 1 January 2020. As a result, it is also limited in the following years, a rise that was still in it from the previous cabinet. So that's already a point of profit when it comes to affordability. We also have a measure on cars that came from the tables and was proposed. They said, "You know what, let's pay that grant by collecting money from the monthly expenses that everyone who owns a car with an internal combustion engine pays." Let's just raise it. That goes for anyone who owns a car now. Whether you use it once a week to shop and go to church, or you drive it around for a very long time every day, doesn't really matter. Whether you emit much or little, we were already going to increase the burden on the property. That's what we've gotten out of it now. These are two major concerns which I also mentioned in January and which were immediately corrected. Furthermore, as regards Mr Van Rooijen's reasoning on the CO levy, I was just listening when he asked a colleague. Then I'm thinking purely technical. You have a levy and it's being rerouted for the greening. Then, on balance, it is not necessarily a burden increase and then you do not have to pass on anything. If you pull something out of it, it leads to a burden increase and you come up with that passing effect. So it seems that what Mr Van Rooijen is saying is that it is a compensation for something created by what that compensation is meant for. I'm just thinking technically. If, on balance, there is no burden increase, you cannot say that the entire tax revenue goes back to industry and that so much will be passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u258	We'll come back to that later. The Dutch Bank said in the autumn that with a CO levy of €50, the proceeds are 8 billion. It is largely passed on to the citizen. They have said: if you give back income tax, that 8 billion, to the citizen, it is best for consumption and growth, compared to, for example, a reduction in corporation tax. We are going to talk about this later, but I think you should point out that if such a heavy burden comes to the citizen through this CO-tax, then business will be spared by this greening that the citizen will get a piece of it back. That's what De Nederlandsche Bank said, that a CO tax can do well, and the best scenario is that you give it back to the citizen, at least to some extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u259	You then assume that the revenue from this levy will be withdrawn from those companies. Then it is indeed a heavy burden increase, which will be taxed. Another option is that it is a levy, but that it is also a means of greening, so that it is not, on balance, a burden increase for the whole amount. That's just an account we need to get out of. Furthermore, De Nederlandsche Bank has also pointed out with a little less attention and a little less attention that it would actually be the neck blow for certain sectors in the Netherlands. So I think that we need to be more intelligent in shaping that levy than was calculated then, because otherwise you would have to say goodbye to whole branches of sport, to whole sectors and to a lot of jobs of people that you won't be compensated for by a reduction in charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u260	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u261	Well, let me put it another way. I started with the citizen, and that's what I'm gonna end with. The passing on of the climate measures already in place, including the proposals, shows that for the lower and middle incomes and, above all, for old pensioners, the decline in purchasing power is almost 2%. Are you prepared to say here that there must be a significant improvement in this? These are, of course, dramatic figures, which do not increase the level of support. Almost minus 2%, page 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u262	Yes, but that minus 2% is an addition to the measures contained in the government agreement and the climate agreement. I believe that three quarters of this is about the effects isolated from the measures in the coalition agreement, but the measures in the coalition agreement are of course not isolated. There are other measures to this. So if you want to include the purchasing power effects, then you just have to look at last March 5th, at the total purchasing power image that is present, also as a result of the government agreement. Things that have already been compensated shouldn't be double counting now as what's coming up now, because we already know them. They're in the numbers now. On top of that, there is a negative purchasing power effect, limited, between 0.3 and 0.5, I say by heart, without the correction we have already announced on the energy bill and the car charges, assuming that people do nothing. 'Cause if you do what you do, you know, a couple of people are gonna drive electric, and that's gonna have a positive purchasing power effect. That's not in there either. And so we are already taking measures to compensate for the new effects that are now emerging, which are not in the figures for last 5 March, which were positive. So let's not count things that people have already felt and that have already been implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u263	Thank you. I think you'd finished your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u264	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u265	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u266	Madam President. At the beginning of February, twelve CDA provincial list leaders made the call for more realism in the polarized climate debate in a submitted article in De Telegraaf. They argued, among other things, for a more feasible pace of implementation and for a fairer distribution of the account. Realism is needed to meet the goals of the climate agreement with all Dutch people. Tonight we are talking about the passing on of the draft climate agreement and the first reaction of the cabinet to it. In this I see this realism: feasible and affordable. I see that in reducing the citizens' energy bill. I see this in the choice of a fairer burden-sharing between citizens and businesses. And I see it in stopping the oversubsidisation of electric cars and preventing the driver from being rushed unnecessarily at cost. The system of a CO fine developed by the industrial table during the climate table negotiations proved insufficient. It is therefore a good thing that an alternative should be provided for this by means of a sensible CO levy. For the CDA, I say to the cabinet, it is a prerequisite that, fortunately, it is also stated in the letter "Jobs do not disappear from the Netherlands and that CO emissions that are reduced here do not return equally quickly abroad. This applies to industry, but also to emissions reduction in the agricultural sector. Madam President. With the transfer of the planning offices, the cabinet can work with the further development of the climate agreement. With the principles set out by the cabinet itself for this purpose, we can build on a better climate policy that everyone can participate in. Thank you very much. I think that was well within four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u267	Yes, you did announce that in the scheme. Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u268	Compliments for what!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you. Then that was Mr Klaver's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u270	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Clover! No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u271	Yesterday I heard Mr Buma say in a radio programme that he does not want a flat CO levy. Could he possibly explain what he means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u272	I have to tell you, I don't know exactly what I said. No flat charge? I must say I prefer to say it in the words... I don't know exactly how I said it, so my memory leaves me so far behind. But I am talking about a tax that is effective, unlike the one that has been passed on, and which above all means that companies continue to invest here, that the jobs remain here and that we do something that is sensible. I think I've said it in that sense before. Whether that's a flat charge or not... For me, it doesn't have to be a flat charge. It could be another one. Whatever it becomes, that's the perimeter condition for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u273	That is why this is a relevant question. I was shocked, because the cabinet has finally announced that there will be a real CO levy. That means we're getting off the penalty system. But I hope that the door is not now open to some kind of penalty system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u274	I hope that for you the door is not open to a system that keeps jobs here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u275	My door is very open to a system that keeps jobs here, but we have now seen that such a penalty system does not work and that we therefore need to move towards a CO levy that is simple in its implementation. Companies are simply subject to a CO tax for the emissions of all the CO they have. That's a simple CO tax. That's what was announced yesterday. Then the question is, how do you send that back smartly? Then the customization comes by the company. That's how I understood the cabinet's plans. I just wanted to check with Mr Buma whether we are looking at this in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u276	You ask that question to someone who does not see this CO levy as the sacred grail of climate policy in itself. For me, it's just that we're doing it in a sensible way. The aim is not a CO2 tax. The aim is to reduce emissions from farms. I belong to you too much, again here, the desire of a certain type of CO2 tax. I'm okay with it; the cabinet's going to work. That's what the letter says. Whether that charge is flat, oblique, round or square, I don't care if it's just a levy that does what it has to do on the one hand, and doesn't have any negative effects on the other that we all suffer from. My appeal to you is to look at it that way, so at the purpose and not at the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u277	I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. It is our job, especially as political leaders in the Chamber, not only to say: we want a CO tax, we want success with it. I'm also looking for what the CDA wants. What's a tax like this supposed to look like? Again, it is not important how we collect the money from the companies. The harmful thing is how we give it back to these companies. I really hope that Mr Buma says that we are not going to work with a complicated system of fines, but that we are simply going to have a generic tax on all CO emissions from companies. The smart thing isn't in getting the money, the smart thing is in giving it back. Then we can keep jobs here. In fact, Mr. Buma, we're going to create jobs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u278	This is the way in which negotiating with Mr Klaver should be so difficult, which I do not see much at all. He'll start with a system that it has to be. Mr. Klaver says to Mr. Buma: if you say the system should be like this, we can start talking. But that's not how it works. The only thing that works for me is that we have a goal that we want to achieve and that industry has to contribute to it. I want the industry to do that. The system that has now been developed is not working properly. This may mean that there will be a flat levy. Once again, this levy can be oblique or have a different form, I am not saying no to anything, but I think it is very unwise to say yes now to a system without knowing its consequences. I would advise Mr Klaver to step away from that holy grail and sit more on the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Buma. I see that Mr Asscher has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u280	Mr Buma says that we must concentrate on the objective. Since yesterday, we also have a different goal: green and fair. The PvdA has made proposals to ensure that there is more disposable income for lower incomes and middle incomes. Can we agree on that objective? Then we'll leave the system discussion there for a while. This means that we are bringing money from large companies to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u281	I have to look very carefully at what answer I am giving, so that you do not say again: so, we have that inside, now we are going one step further. I do not know what Mr Asscher's second question will be. But I do know one thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u282	What have I done to deserve this distrust? I put a polite question to Mr Buma. I don't understand any of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u283	I say this because the last part of your question contains exactly something I would like to warn you about. Yes, we have, for example, also dropped in a letter around the ODE and the energy bill a different distribution. This means that companies will pay more and citizens will pay less. That's real, because companies get out of that pot too, so they pay for that pot. There's a relationship in there. For me there is a limit and I am careful to raise more for the big companies and therefore less for the citizens. We now know more clearly than ever that what we impose on businesses is paid by citizens. So it's not one-on-one. If that were the case, and then when those companies say that they are going to invest extra, make even more profits and pay even more taxes, then I say: just as good friends. But it's not that easy. We do a slide, but I'm careful to say: and a CO tax, and a slide, and more tax here, and more tax there. Because 75% of Dutch people work at companies. We have to think about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u284	Careful is good, but the 75% of the Dutch who work at the companies have a higher energy bill. Those Dutch people see that VAT has increased. They have costs for the care. We can help those people now. The PvdA's plea is to give back some of it to companies that are wise, because they can then green up a part of it to help people find work and give a share to the citizen. The difference with the cabinet is that we have already made that proposal. That it should be careful, and also wise and smart, everyone agrees on that. Even Mr Wilders is in favour of sensible and smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u285	I think we should get him back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u286	I shouldn't have said that. But it's a matter of principle. It is necessary, apart from the system, if we are to succeed in the energy revolution and if we want to support it, that is not to say that some of the money ends up with the households that are struggling, the low incomes and the middle groups. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u287	Here too, I am actually saying that we should talk about everything, including the proposals which I appreciate come only from the Labour Party. That's no problem at all. The only warning I give is that as a Chamber, not just Mr Asscher, we should be careful with the ease with which we say 'we charge companies and we give them to citizens', because that is the reality that what we levy at companies often falls down on citizens and that the people who actually pay that high energy bill now have to have jobs. It also makes no sense to reduce the energy bill by a tenner if people have then lost their jobs. That's the choice we have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u288	Thank you, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u289	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u290	I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u291	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday was a good day for the future of our country, for the future of our children. The Christian Union takes the concern for creation seriously and therefore it is very important that we achieve the Paris climate goals. This is a major challenge for society as a whole. The Christian Union is committed to fair climate policies in which the polluter pays and therefore the business community participates. Everyone really needs to be able to experience it. It should also be for people with a small scholarship to pay. Yesterday, the billing of the independent Planning Agency for the Environment and the Central Planning Bureau provided a valuable reality check on the climate plans that were there. The bills showed that Paris can be made and paid, but that additional steps are needed to achieve the goals of Paris. The plans must therefore be sharper and more concrete. For example, the credit transfers showed that national costs are not so bad, but that the distribution of those costs should be more equitable. In the first reaction, the cabinet has shown that it is serious. The cabinet wants to make the sharing of costs between citizens and businesses fairer. It reduces taxes on household energy bills and increases them for businesses. So it becomes fairer and policy becomes more effective. There will also be a CO levy, as advocated by the Christian Union in the electoral programme, and that is good news. The cabinet also embraces the ambition to reduce CO emissions in the agricultural sector. Money will be made available to help farmers set up their businesses in a forward-looking, sustainable and cost-effective way, thus continuing to develop circular agriculture. This package of measures offers the opportunity to reach a climate agreement with broad social and political support. My question to the Prime Minister is how he will work on that basis. Think also of our young people, because it is their future. My group assumes that the cabinet will proceed with the further work. There are still further choices, but with this package of measures we are taking a big step forward to pass the earth on to the next generations and now to take care of creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u292	I have already expressed my appreciation for yesterday's step. But something else happened yesterday, in the European Parliament. That is where the Christian Union Group voted against a European target of 55% CO reduction, and that is the ambition that we, as the Netherlands, have and which this cabinet has. I would like to ask Mr Segers how I should interpret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u293	That is news that I must hear through Mr Klaver. We have signed 49%, but we have said that we also want a look at that 55%. Turns out that's pretty far away. The top of the bandwidth is 51%, so that 55% is really far away. I simply do not know what was going on in the European Parliament, and I simply do not know what the considerations were, but let it be clear that that view and ambition still stand as far as I am concerned. But yesterday it made it clear that this will be quite a task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u294	Thank you, Mr Segers. Yes, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u295	Mr President, I find your body language inviting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u296	Yeah, I can't hide anything. That's a problem. Go ahead, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u297	I've just come to the opposite conclusion, because I'm here now. My question to Mr Segers is whether he agrees with me that it is wise to involve the trade union movement and the environmental movement in the elaboration of the cabinet's new plans, because they have been abandoned earlier on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u298	Yes, I found that extremely disappointing. I've had them all around. At that time I also said in the personal conversation: before I could have said a word and made a judgment on what the tables had produced, the green coalition and the trade union movement had run away. I found that incredibly disappointing. It was a concept, an intermediate position in a very long journey towards a slow change in the direction of the mammoth tanker, our society, which must move towards clean, sustainable energy. I found it extremely disappointing that they had run away. Their reaction yesterday was hopeful, as far as I am concerned. So yes, I hope they come alongside, I hope they talk along and keep thinking along, because we need that broad social support. And the green coalition and the trade union movement are an important part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u299	You could have said a little more equestrian: they were right, but the cabinet needed a little longer to come to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u300	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u301	But I hear the positive end of your answer: yes, they must be involved in the elaboration, because that is better for the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u302	Yeah, but still. I don't want to spoil the atmosphere, but still: they weren't right. It was about the moment that those plans were delivered. You can then place all kinds of asterisks, question all kinds of questions and even have all kinds of reservations, but it all had to be passed on. And as Mr Dijkhoff said, for example, this bonus-malus scheme was worth a try in some form of CO-taxation. We said, "Let's see if that works." When yesterday it became clear that this would not work properly, the alternative was put next to it by the cabinet. So we're gonna do something else. We had that freedom yesterday, we had that freedom a month ago and we also had that freedom in December. If you still have that freedom, you shouldn't run away, you should keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u303	Thank you. Mr. Asscher, finally, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u304	It's okay, but this is a bit of a rewrite of history at its own discretion. In September, the planning agency warned about the feasibility of such a bonus-malus scheme. That is also why the environmental movement and the trade union movement did not want to participate and did not want to sign up for it. And even then it was suggested from the Chamber that at least at the same time a CO levy should be charged as an alternative. The cabinet wasn't prepared to do that at the time. So it would adorn Mr Segers if he said now: yes, we should have done that then, now we have lost a little time, so let's get to work. I welcome that step of the cabinet, but my appeal is to involve the trade union movement and the green movement in the work, rather than give them another kick, because that is so bad for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u305	And yet, yet it stabbed me, because I don't like people walking away where there's still a chance to talk. That CO levy was in our election program, so I was in favour of it. It's never been off the table and it's always been an option. But let me finish by being friendly and happy: I am glad that they have responded as they have responded, and I hope that we will continue to talk until the signature is signed under a broad-based climate agreement which is good for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u306	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u307	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it was finally time. At 1 p.m. we were allowed to get acquainted with the transit of the draft climate agreement. A number of things became painfully clear at the time. According to the planning agencies, the cabinet does not meet its own 2030 target. The 49% reduction in CO emissions by 2030 is not achieved. The towering costs end up with the ordinary, hardworking people. The middle incomes and lower incomes are the loser compared to higher incomes. This is de-levelling, this is a party of Rutte: the rich are getting richer and the poor are poorer. The social costs are high, i.e. around EUR 2 billion per year. In addition, there is 0.5% less economic growth, which also means EUR 4 billion a year. And then there are still a lot of costs not included, such as the costs for individuals, the expensive heat pumps, the priceless electric cars. And what about the 71 billion euros that Netbeheer has charged the Netherlands for increasing electricity grids? And I am not even talking about the €334 increase in the energy bill presented to us by the Rutte cabinet this year. Rutte's bills keep coming in and Rutte's vase has become a poison cup for many people. People can't and won't drink out of here anymore. Mr. Chairman. Rutte has suddenly promised to reduce the energy tax. But is this true? Because when Rutte held his press conference here in Nieuwspoort on Tuesday at 3.30 p.m., a few minutes later, a number of motions were voted on in plenary, for example to reduce the energy tax by €226. And guess who voted against this motion? The VVD, the CDA, D66, ChristianUnion but also GroenLinks. They voted against reducing the energy tax. The coalition parties speak with a double tongue. In one Chamber of Parliament they do exactly the opposite of what they do in the other Chamber of Parliament. A good Dutch word for this is "hyprocrisy." Those coalition parties, together with GroenLinks, the SP and the PvdA, also voted in favour of the massive increase in the Storage of Renewable Energy in November, with €162, which, among other things, contributed to the towering additional bill of €334. So now they promise to give the voter back what they took first. A cigar from your own box. I say it in my own words: don't fall for it. Mr. Chairman. At DENK, the voter's voice is safe. DENK will always oppose the absurd climate costs of this cabinet. We discussed this during the general consultation on 13 February, among other things. We, my group, have advocated that the agricultural and industrial sectors should do much more. That's what's gonna happen now. The DENK Group has advocated that homes and households be spared. Interventions in buildings yield the least, but lead to the highest costs. Think of the expensive heat pumps of €20,000, insulation, solar boilers and solar panels that cost many thousands of euros. The Economic Institute for Construction has calculated that the buildings in particular lead to a huge cost of EUR 435 billion. I would like a response from the cabinet on this point. What else is coming out of the wire transfer? The table buildings led by Samsom do not yield anything, not even the 3.4 megaton that the cabinet intended but only a poor 0.8 megaton and less than 2% of the goals of the climate agreement. So the best thing to do is to delete this part. Climate policy through buildings is insufficient. Mr. Chairman. In the climate debate on 5 February, the DENK Group set out three criteria on which we are going to assess the climate agreement. One. The objectives must be realistic. Two. Climate costs must be distributed fairly. Three. There should also be attention to climate adaptation. On all these points, unfortunately, the cabinet scores an inadequate one. Mr. Chairman. We have to wait for the final plans now, but it doesn't look good. The voter's up now. Through the First Chamber, the voter can throw Rutte's poison cup to a thousand pieces. Give Rutte a red card on March 20th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u308	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u309	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u310	Mr. Chairman. I think it will be rather short on our part, at least what we will be actively putting forward, because few questions have been asked. I am not going to repeat yesterday's press conference here. Let me say this very briefly. The cabinet, of course, was wondering how to deal with yesterday's payments, given that, of course, we should take sufficient time to do so. That's gonna take a couple of weeks. It's due in late April. But it is also a time when the electoral campaigns are going on and the risk is there. I am not saying that reproaching opposition parties; that might as well apply to coalition parties of selective shopping in figures. A few may also not suppress the tendency to scare. Because I, the coalition and the cabinet have in mind that by 20 March, by the end of April, this process should eventually lead to a plan that can last 10, 30 years with broad support, we have chosen to share a number of insights that have been gained within us in recent weeks of discussions, also anticipating what could come out of these accounts, on five points already. In this way, we want to try to further develop that broad consensus, and that is paradoxical, so it is precisely at a time when elections are coming to see if it will be possible to create that broader support even in such a week. I am glad that tonight, too, it appears that this is not possible in advance. That's good news. By doing so, we will avoid having torn down accounts and broken ambitions on 21 March and it will be almost impossible to create that support. That is why we said yesterday: at least these five elements will soon return to the final plans for a climate agreement on the part of the coalition. That's the background to what we did yesterday. A few questions have been asked about the five concrete elements that will return to the final climate agreement. Eric Wiebes, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, will go into this in more detail. There have also been a few questions that have to do with this, about public finances and their acceptance. I'll say something about that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u311	I wanted to ask the Prime Minister how he sees the trial in front of him after or actually on 21 March. So how are we going to get this off the ground as soon as possible and have broad political and social support?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u312	I think that right now all focus, at least in my work, is focused on two elements. These are, firstly, the Brexit report on trying to save what is to be saved, and secondly, of course, my activities in the campaign and in the run-up to the European Council next Thursday and Friday. That is the priority for me now. The coalition will, of course, consider the transfers. You know the five elements that will at least return to the final climate agreement. This means that we will use the period from the end of March and also a large part of April to come up with definitive plans. We will understand this with everyone who seems relevant to do so, both socially and politically, in order to achieve that broad consensus. But I would add that it is, of course, in the first place a piece from the cabinet, from the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u313	I understand that, but the Prime Minister is talking about 'wide support' and 'provoking the hand', so I was just looking forward to that. Let me just ask you a very specific question. I believe that on 21 March we should sit down with all the parties here in the Chamber who say: we are going to work towards that 49%, and we are going to do so with such a CO levy and with lowering the citizens' energy bill. Can we make that appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u314	But that should have happened a year and a half ago, in the formation of the cabinet, I say quite honestly to Mr Klaver. I like what he's saying, but some kind of new formation... [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat had dan echt vorig jaar, of wat was het, in 2017, gemoeten.]] I accept the outcome of that formation. We work well with the Christian Union, but at first we had other plans. That happened then, but giving that answer does not prevent us all, of course, including Eric Wiebes and myself, from looking at what lives in the circle of GroenLinks, but also at the Labour Party, for example when it comes to the CO-ideas. Your plans will also be passed on. That's what we're all gonna get involved in. We will seek a process in which the coalition is determined and in which the government rules, but in a way that we will not do so in isolation and will therefore also seek dialogue, including with Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u315	That was a detour. For a moment, I thought the Prime Minister was freaking out. The cabinet reaches out and the opposition says: that is very good; we need to talk about that. For a moment, I thought he didn't want to, but at the end of his speech he comes back to the fact that it's important that we have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u316	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u317	I'm happy about that. I understand very well that the Prime Minister does not need to make further commitments on this matter by 20 March. We'll talk on the 21st.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u318	Agreed. And before that, we will also meet in the necessary debates, which I look forward to. On three points, then, a short response from my side. It's not about the five elements, it's about what's around them. Firstly, the question of what to do if other countries do not comply with the agreements has been asked. I've answered that many times here. It's also in the coalition agreement. For the sake of clarity and in view of the time, I would like to refer to that for the answer why we are planning 49% and why we are also considering what should happen if we have to move to a higher level, despite the statements of the European Group of the Christian Union. Moreover, I expect Mr Segers in the Netherlands to still think that if we succeed, we should go to 55%. I also refer to this for what you do if the average would eventually be below 49%. We've talked about that a lot. Maybe I can refer to that. The second question was about public finances. Of course, the budgetary frameworks, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, are leading the cabinet. This means that we will show how the climate agreement will fit into the budgetary framework. We do not want to shift these problems to future generations. The way we do not shift public debt to future generations, we also do not want to shift climate debt to future generations. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mr Segers' question about how we are going to shape the basis of support and whether we are also thinking about young people. Maybe I can say that support is needed in order to eventually achieve a climate plan and approach until 2030, but also with a view to 2050. To this end, I have just said it, also in response to the interruption of Mr Klaver's talks with civil society organisations and political parties. We will, of course, continue to do so after 21 March. I think that answers the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u319	The Prime Minister responded to two questions I asked. He refers to the coalition agreement. First of all, he said that we should do that with other countries. My question was what happens if we have a national tax which is not followed by other countries. He refers to the coalition agreement, but my question about this tax is what you will do if other countries do not follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u320	We have now agreed on a CO levy, and Mr Wiebes will go into this in more detail, so that you can get the barrels and companies do not leave. That also has to do with how you in the design ensure that there will be no leakage and all the other things. We're all gonna work that out. Then we'll also look at what's in the proposals that are now being calculated from the Labour Party and GroenLinks and see what thoughts live on there. The goal is to get the 14.3 megatons in a way that the jobs do not disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u321	Finally. On page 10 of the PBL's report, climate investment accounts for between 50 and 75 billion with a social discount rate of 3%. For pension funds with more freer investment opportunities, we can only count on a discount rate of 1.5%. We don't understand that. Can the Prime Minister explain what the logic is for climate investment, which is more compelling, to count 3%, but only 1.5% for pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u322	I know that, of course, and I could explain it in detail here. You'd be amazed at the knowledge I have about discount rate differences between pension funds and the climate approach...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u323	... but given the time and the fact that Mr Asscher is waiting, I am not doing so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u324	Mr. Van Rooijen, you yourself said "last remark."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u325	Will you promise me that we will share a lecture on this together in the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u326	Yes, outside this room!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u327	Coming months; that should work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u328	Is it true that the Prime Minister has promised industry that the full proceeds of the CO levy will be returned to industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u329	Nothing has been promised to anyone; no, at least not by me or anyone else, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u330	Is the Prime Minister prepared to say that variants will also be examined, examined, developed, and not the entire yield returned to industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u331	I think it is right that I should leave that question with Mr Wiebes, otherwise we will both answer the same type of question. If he doesn't like what he says, you can come back to me. Is this how we're gonna do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u332	Why don't we make a deal like this? This is really a headline. It was the Prime Minister who so far has been reluctant to talk about the CO levy and has been talking about the jobs that have been at stake. In another file, very big words were used for that. I think it is very important, as Mr Dijkhoff has just offered that space that we also take into account, when designing variants, opportunities where some go to households or to funds to maintain employment. If you have not promised it to the industry, then there can be no reason to lie down in front of this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u333	Yeah, but let's talk about the past. It's all good, you know, to pin this on me. We had a debate here on the basis of the climate agreement. Again, this is not a cabinet position but the outcome of the tables, with a cabinet letter, in which we ask a number of supplementary questions for the transfers, so that we can also decide as a political cabinet in April. In addition, I said that you can also consider the levy as it was, the bonus-malus scheme, on which the agencies are critical, as a CO levy. In the debate we had then, I listened to Mr Asscher, but also to Mr Klaver and others in the Chamber. I also said at the time: if you have a country that has ambitious climate objectives and where, in the end, if you dry out the whole discussion, it is about the design of the CO levy, then you will come out. That's what I thought back then, and I've become much more optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u334	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u335	That's true, that's how the debate went. In this spirit, it is also appropriate not to rule out the possibility that some of these returns will be paid to families, to middle and low incomes, because that is where the fear has come, where the high energy bill and the high VAT have arrived. This is the only question I'm asking. You have not promised it to industry, that is quite clear. There has been no contact, no agreements and no commitments made by this cabinet to industry. This news has not been discussed with industry in the last four weeks either. Then you can also...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u336	These are some of those dangerous subtleties again. The letter we sent yesterday is clear. It says: there will be a CO levy with two objectives: 14.3 megatons and the jobs will not go away. We're all gonna shape that. This is important, isn't it? Any further clarification that we are going to make here whether it means sister, or can do so, has a great risk in itself, namely that it is not going to succeed in getting out; social, political, but also in maintaining those jobs. I'd think that was really unwise. I would really like to agree that the targets of a sensible CO levy are those two objectives: not to remove jobs and to achieve 14.3 megatons. We're gonna study how we're gonna do it. We're gonna be in touch about it in any way we can. We're looking for broad support. We're looking at your proposals. We're gonna get the credit for that in a minute. Everything I'm going to say now, about me not ruling this out or considering it possible, and then again the opposite, because that also gives signals, isn't going to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u337	That is not going to help, but your letter does specify it. It's not just about those goals and a sensible way. That letter says that the entire yield is being redirected back to industry. That is an unnecessary clarification, which you yourself made in that letter. I agree with you that we can't use that. Makes it harder to get out. If you reason consistently, from the answer you just gave, then you also say that this is not excluded and that it is negotiable. That's what I'm asking for. Finally, for inspection, because the body language became just as remarkable, but let me not dwell on that. Is it true that no contacts, no promises, no commitments, no agreements have been made with industry on yesterday's communication? Isn't it true that there were no pieces and memos on it, as Mr Jetten just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u338	We are not going to say anything about the latter, because then we will have the discussion about the formation again. Whatever is exchanged in a cabinet or between coalition parties, or not, that is none of the business of the Chamber, unless you cancel the confidence in the cabinet, or whatever. So that's one. Then there's the question of whether there are pieces going around. That is the mistake I made at the time of the discussion on the formation. I am not going to make it again, so we are not saying anything about internal decision-making. In this coalition, as with the previous one, there is consultation in all possible ways. It's all known. All the media also know where we always sit together. And there are or aren't any pieces on the table. Which pieces they are, is completely confidential, internally. If you start talking about that in public, you can never make a decision again. That is really the lesson I learned from last year's dividend memos debates. So we're not gonna say anything about that. So that's just the first thing: whether there are, what there are and what it says is confidential, otherwise you can never make decisions. In addition, we do not say anything about who we have contacts with, social or anywhere else. 'Cause if you're gonna tell me all that, you're not gonna be able to do anything. Ultimately, here is the relevant question what we want, and that is a CO levy that achieves those two objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u339	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u340	Yeah, really last time, because you said "finally" twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u341	Well, for starters then, Chairman! In response to Mrs Marijnissen's legitimate question, namely the question that people should take into account in the energy bill, Mr Jetten just said that there are no amounts and no numbers. Then I asked him, "Is that right? In those four weeks of negotiation, have there been no numbers, no scenarios, no memos and no pieces gone over the table? Now the Prime Minister pretends that I am asking him a lewd question, but that question is prompted by this debate. You promise people a low energy bill. You're making it look like it just fell out of the sky, and there wasn't any talk of numbers. I can ask you: what is the situation, and what scenarios have been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u342	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u343	That has nothing to do with the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u344	No, you're absolutely allowed to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u345	That has nothing to do with mistakes made by the Prime Minister before. It has to do with mistakes he's threatening to make right now. And then finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u346	Last time, "Finally."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u347	And that clarification, in order to rule out the possibility of something being returned, may I now consider it 'off the table', because you yourself have just said that you should not have done so. That was a new mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u348	No, we're not gonna add anything to the letter and not take anything off the letter. But we're going to shape. We take this debate seriously, of course. We'll listen to it. We'll get the feedback you gave here. But here's what I'm gonna do. So that we never get the misunderstanding again whether or not there are any pieces of decision-making and discussions in the coalition and in the cabinet, we say nothing at all. That is the confidentiality of decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u349	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u350	Yes, but still very precise. So we are not saying anything about the question of whether or not amounts have been mentioned. What's relevant is what was brought out. That is the letter from Wiebes yesterday on behalf of the cabinet and the coalition, which says: 'We are going to encrypt that storage of renewable energy, so that the companies will pay more and so that we can reduce the energy bill, at least for the part that the government causes to burdens'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u351	Does the Prime Minister exclude certain sectors when it comes to the CO levy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u352	As far as the CO levy is concerned, we are going to study it now. It has to meet three requirements. It has to be sensible, it has to get the tonnages, and it has to not drive jobs away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u353	Does the Prime Minister exclude sectors from a CO levy? Or are all sectors part of the CO-taxation study?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u354	I'm not going to say anything about that at all. We're going to study on that now, and we'll get back to that. Because everything that I am saying now is less likely that we will ever be able to get out of such a precarious process economically, socially and politically. And I do not want that, because I want us to be able to reach a final decision by the end of April with a very broad consensus that can last for 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u355	Do you think that the de-polluter-pays principle should also apply to the agricultural and aviation sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u356	That question was asked in the context of the previous question, so I refer to the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u357	How can we give voters who are about to vote the confidence that this cabinet is actually going to look at all the polluters? How can the electorate trust that the big polluters will also pay if we do not get answers to the questions I have just asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u358	Quite precisely, I say this to the voters. Firstly, the 49% CO reduction target is fully in line with 1990 in order to focus on limiting global warming by 2oC, but preferably increasing to 1.5oC. That's one. Two. It has to be in such a way that people in the country can experience it financially. It has to be manageable and affordable. Companies make a fair share. That's one. Two. The voters know that yesterday the documents that came out of the climate tables were passed on, together with the cabinet letter with a number of additional variants. That is the concept of a climate agreement, which still has to be decided politically. Three. What the voters know is that the coalition said ahead of the decision-making in April, also in the interest of maintaining acceptance: part of the decision-making process will be at least the five elements in yesterday's letter, including the comment on the energy bill, the CO levy, but also the elements such as car, agriculture and CCS. That's what's known now. So the rest is unknown. So we are very precise in what is and what is not known. So everything else comes at the end of April.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u359	Is it weird to think that agriculture is probably not going to be covered by the CO levy, as agriculture is mainly being given money by this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u360	I refer once again to the fact that Mrs Thieme is asking this question in the context of previous questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u361	I had another question about the energy tax for people here in the Netherlands for next year, for this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u362	Yes, that's what Mr Wiebes is about. He's gonna answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u363	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u364	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u365	Again, if you think "he left things lying around": I'm just gonna sit here, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u366	You're still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u367	But knowing Mr Wiebes, he will answer completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u368	I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a limited number of questions. First, I should like to comment on the questions concerning the energy bill. A few questions have been asked about the CO levy. I will then pass by the various spokesmen for the rest. I think that the most important and most frequent question of this debate is whether there is a reduction in the energy bill already this year. That is a sympathetic idea, which also resonates within the cabinet and which has even been discussed earlier by me and the Secretary of State for Finance. Since this wish sounded so loud in the Chamber, I have, once again, personally spoken with the top of the Tax Administration about the feasibility. I would be hypocritical if I were not very clear about that: there is no possibility of that. Nor do I think it is fair to create hope or expectations at a time before elections by blurring about it and examining it again. This is not a commitment I can keep. That depends on different things. The return of the energy tax is only possible at the earliest 01-01-2020, but the adjustment of the ODE rates and the energy tax rates is also problematic. And you're gonna need both. In the lower disks you have to give it back to the households; in the upper disks you have to pick it up from the companies. For none of these things the execution is safe to say. That means we can do this by 01-01-2020. But again, the request is sympathetic and also explicitly resonates in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u370	We have just heard a little too often over the last few months that something couldn't be done, but then we got right that it could, so I'm going to keep going on at this point. We didn't go ice cream in one night. We also looked at how you could do this. The interesting thing about the energy tax is that it goes through the energy suppliers. So we also looked to see if they could do this. That is the big question: can they actually carry it out? We have looked at a variant that energy suppliers also say can. My question to the Minister would be: would you look at our variant, to see if it is actually feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u371	If there's any doubt about the statement that it's not possible, I'd like to do so. I'll admit it. I have also been in contact with the Secretary of State for Finance. I am always willing to look at things that we may not have thought about, but I would point out that not only the energy companies, but also the Tax Administration itself should apply them. Then I would ask Mr Klaver to look at two sides of the matter, if there is any doubt. No tricks, because it's a time when everything is sensitive. It is a sympathetic proposal, which in principle is also explicitly supported by the cabinet, so I will take note of Mr Klaver's proposal and ask the Secretary of State for Finance to respond. But I can't predict how much time that takes for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u372	Monday would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u373	I don't know if I can promise. I'll let you know what a reasonable time limit is. Mr Klaver's proposal will have to come in soon. I will tell him that the bottlenecks are not with the energy suppliers as far as I can see, but with the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u374	I can imagine that, and I don't want to ignore it easily. The big difference is that you don't suddenly have to pay this out to 7 million households as a tax authority. It goes through the energy companies, so the task is less complex. I would like to make it clear that this is not about the ODE, but really about the energy discount that we discussed with the Chamber earlier. We will make sure that the proposal is still there tonight. I would ask the Minister to respond to this at the shortest possible time, because that is the only way that it is important to decide on this very quickly. As far as I'm concerned, we'll decide on that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u375	I agree to investigate that, but I dare not guarantee that this will be possible in that period. I don't want to be silly, and I'm trying to speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u376	Mr Dijkhoff. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u377	More questions have been asked about the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u378	Yes, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u379	At this point. I'm not against this at all, but I'm just thinking about probability. Suppose someone's still watching and thinks, "That's good." He might get hope. We have heard many times that elections are coming. I don't want to spoil the party right away. I think it's very good to look at it and we all want it to be possible, but I do want to radiate it to the people at home who might get hope, that they should assume they can't. They just have to assume in the next week that it doesn't work. If it turns out to be successful after that, it's not so bad. Someone should not think that politics here is promising that it will succeed, that it will succeed and that it will improve this year. It can only be easy and we don't make a promise that we can't deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u380	I really want to fully endorse that. The only thing we have to say to each other here is that we're doing everything we can to get it done, but nothing's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u381	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u382	Then this dual attitude. I, too, do not want to raise expectations in anyone's home. In the direction of Mr Klaver, I would like to say that it is simply being looked at openly and seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u383	I am going to ask the question a little more precisely how the Minister responds. Does he say "come up with a proposal, I'll look into it" or does he say "I have the information that it can't be done and I'm willing to put that information back in writing"? In the first case it may still be possible and in the second case it is clear that the Minister states that the Tax Administration is unable to handle it and that he will put it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u384	I suppose my information is that it can't be done on the side of the IRS. Mr Klaver says he approached it from the other side. I will therefore have a look at whether the information provided by Mr Klaver means that it is therefore possible for the Tax Administration to do so. I will see if Mr Klaver's proposals shed another light on the Tax Administration's analysis. Then I assume that if the Tax Administration motivates how it looks at it, this is satisfactory information for Mr Klaver in the opposite direction at some point. That's how I think we've always worked with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u385	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u386	Mrs Marijnissen has asked very explicitly what this shift means. How much are these companies gonna pay extra? I'm gonna have to work that out. Roughly, it goes from fiftyfifty to a third/two third in the ODE. Again, I cannot give very precise amounts now. I'll let it work out. It also means that I cannot be very specific about the energy bill. That is something problematic anyway, because that depends on the year, on the type of household and also on the design. In the design there are still choices to make in which way you make it easier for households. Of course, you don't just want the energy bill to go down, you ideally want to create a certain sustainability incentive. Since we cannot yet be precise about this design, I cannot comment on what kind of households it means either. Let's work that out quietly. The aim here is to reduce the energy bill, the tax component caused by the government, while at the same time creating an incentive for further sustainability. As soon as I get out of there, all the information comes about, and also split up into different types of households, so we can all see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u387	Did you answer all of Mrs Marijnissen's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u388	No, with this, I've answered all the questions about the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u389	Maybe it's good to answer that question, too. Then Mrs Marijnissen will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u390	There are other questions. I've just been asking questions about the energy bill. Questions have also been asked about the CO levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u391	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen. I thought you had another question from her. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u392	My question is indeed also about the energy bill. I think it's a little problematic. Yesterday was the press conference. The cabinet says the energy bill is going down. I refer to the debate just now, to the coalition parties who seem somewhat terrified, who think: what is happening here, what is being promised here? I don't think it's getting any clearer for the people at home. I also started my contribution with open questions. What an election stunt this yesterday, what a lot of people think? Or is something really happening here? That is why I repeat my question: can Mr Wiebes try to be more specific? If we get this straight, then the next year, when we believe Mr Wiebes's reading, there will probably be nothing. The year after that, you want to move something into the ODE. But that leads to a couple of tens. This means that the energy bill is now on average going up by over €330, that nothing will change next year and that a few tens might go off next year. Is that really what the voter should be doing now? I think it's important to have that sharp at least tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u393	Those are two different questions. The increase in the energy bill as a result of higher delivery rates does not affect the government. The cabinet does have an influence on the ODE and the energy tax. There's a runaway in there. The shift in the ODE will not only affect the short-term emergence, i.e. from 2020. That would mean a reduction in that tax. And in the years after that, because it is an affair, it would also mean a slower rise. Can I be more specific about that? I cannot be more precise about the amounts for one or the other. I just explained that. But in order not to make a non-binding statement, I included in that letter that it is a third/two thirds. That is a very important and much discussed relationship in this Chamber. That is therefore an essential point of reference. So the commitment of the cabinet is that ratio of a third/two thirds. That is indeed a real step. Only the translation into the exact amounts requires clarity about the design. We need to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u394	It was, of course, the Prime Minister himself who said yesterday 'in election time the volume button will open further' or something like that. I think a lot of people at home are right to think so now. That energy bill is so greatly increased, again by over €330. Not only does that mean that a lot of people are in trouble, one in ten people can already pay that bill badly, but I am also saying this with a view to the future, to all the measures that are still coming around the climate, which everyone says should be supported. Then it's not a good start if you start with one thing that is clear: that people have to do a lot more. And when it comes to what the big companies are going to contribute, when it comes to the question of whether this CO levy is going to happen and in what form we have talked about it again this evening, it is still unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u395	The increase in the energy bill as a result of delivery rates, I cannot do much about that. What we can influence is the taxes, in this case the Storage Renewable Energy. I'm saying there's gonna be another relationship there. That is indeed a concrete benchmark. Mrs Marijnissen can hold me to it at the end of April if that relationship has changed. So that is not a non-binding or purely qualitative statement, which is a quantified objective. Just the translation into what that means; I'm a little afraid that I'm going to call all kinds of amounts out of the loose wrist and then we'll have to find out later that that was very different for some households or that was different because of a different design. I don't have to do that right now. We are working it out in such a way that it is a substantial reduction in the load and at the same time it leads to sustainability. As soon as I have clarity, I will report it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u396	I find it really sad that the voter should do so now. My point was that the increase in the energy bill went through the roof. Denied and trivialized by this cabinet in the first instance, but eventually recognized. Those people weren't wrong. This increase is huge: just €330. I think it is quite right that something should happen about that. I note tonight that at least the cabinet does not want to do anything about it, that it is a vague promise for the future and that things are going to be sorted out. In the end, we were told yesterday at the press conference, when we have asked many times for this: no, we are going to bring down the energy bill. Then it is not too much to ask that people ask a little more clarity about this six days before the elections. You've been meeting about it for a month. Didn't that work out at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u397	It is clear that I cannot now say exactly how much euro it is for average households or specific households, but it is not without obligation. A third/two third is a firm step. It's a wish that's been living in this Chamber for a year. We've been looking at them seriously in the coalition. That a third/two-thirds is really a benchmark that the Chamber can hold me to. It's verifiable. At the end of April, Mrs Marijnissen will be able to say exactly whether it has succeeded or not, and she will be able to address me if it has not succeeded. Then there is the CO levy. The targets are clear. A sensible CO levy takes the barrels and does not scare the industry away. Mrs Thieme asked: can I get some clarification on this? I think it would be wise not to do that too much. If you really want to take a fresh look at it, I don't think you should afford to formulate all sorts of ideas about it right away in the first debate. Let's take a fresh look and see how you put together a sensible CO-tax. Don't pin it on thistem or thattem right away. There are, of course, a few things in it that we can just read from the PBL assessment. It states that the amount is not yet high enough. There is talk of legal doubts, but also of a certain degree of non-committalism and inciting strategic behavior. These are all things that should not be included in that proposal. But as far as the further design is concerned, I would like to give the team a fresh look at that. We should not be focusing on all sorts of things now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u398	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u399	I'd like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer some questions, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u400	Mr Van Rooijen asked: does competition no longer count? At first, we didn't want companies to run away. Well, I say to Mr Van Rooijen, we still do not want companies to run away. That's one of the basic conditions. It is true that the Netherlands is a small country. We have to make sure the jobs don't run away. That is still the demand; it has not changed. The government's commitment to this issue has not changed. The effects may change. I see Mr Asscher looking very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u401	I also see Mr Asscher, but I was curious to see how far you have come to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u402	Then I'm done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u403	Good. I shall now give the floor to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u404	I understand very well that the exact design is a matter of looking at the effects. I think that's a good idea, too. We want it to be green and fair. And we want to keep work. Now American economists are also in favour of returning part of the carbon dividend or the CO tax to households. Is the Minister prepared to work out these variants so that we can judge them later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u405	An abstraction level higher is, of course, the answer that there is indeed a burden shift being prepared from households to companies. That's the ODE. Another ODE ratio increases the burden on industry and reduces the burden on households. Or you call that a backlock to households... At least it's a lock to households. That is exactly the proposal. It is the cabinet's commitment to basically starting from backlocking to industry when considering the CO2 tax, because we think and see that this backlock is precisely what is causing this greening. So that's the stake, but there's no dogmatic in that, in the sense that the ODE shift materially amounts to what Mr Asscher is just proposing. So no, there are no fully concrete or watertight bulkheads. We're gonna murmur at those bulkheads. After some 50/50 years, it will be a different relationship, but I want to be clear that the cabinet's commitment is as stated in the letter, and that is a backlock from the CO2 tax section to the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u406	I read that, that's the government's commitment. We are conducting this debate precisely to see whether or not it is concrete. I hear the Minister say: 'That is not the case, there is no choice of principle. The cabinet only thinks that this is wise at this time." Hence my request to take the other variant, which is not the cabinet move, as I understand, because otherwise we may be losing time again. We've argued for this variant before. They've been looking at it since yesterday. The request is, precisely because it is not a matter of principle, also to look at the variant where part of the income goes to households and families.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u407	I would like to say that, in a material sense, that letter was initiated by that other relationship, but that in principle the commitment... If you do not know exactly how the system is going to be, you can be very dogmatic about it, but the commitment of the cabinet is clear, namely to organise the backlock at that point. If Mr Asscher finds that anyone who does not know the end product can never be very dogmatic, then that is of course true. In principle, however, the burden-slide he proposes is already proposed in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u408	The Minister would like to... He said to me: have a little faith; let us take a good look at the CO levy. But trust must be earned, and if you've been on your hands for 505 days, then trust is already very minimal. Especially when you hear the Prime Minister say that there is a subsidy going to the agricultural sector, which actually means to manure factories and pot-tight stables. If you look at the PBL overdrafts, you will see that the EUR 2.5 billion grant we have given to manure plants over the past ten years does not pay in terms of CO reduction. They say the reduction could produce a maximum of 0.16 megatons. So that means that you give a lot of money to subsidies to manure factories, but that doesn't get us anything from CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u409	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u410	Minister, how can we be more confident that this cabinet is really serious about CO reduction when it is going to grant subsidies to manure plants that are not going to yield anything in terms of CO reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u411	I am not going to discuss specific measures here on behalf of Mr Schouten, but I am going to say this. There has also been an assessment of the measures on the agricultural table. It can be seen that the goal can be achieved, even more, but that there is still a bandwidth in it and that there is also a clear direction given by the Plan Office for the Environment to further refine and concreteise measures. In this respect, my colleague, the Minister of LNV, is working with the sector. It will therefore be clear that a final climate agreement must be more concrete on this and pay attention to the points of the PBL, with the willingness to provide additional tonnes from the table and from the sector itself. But I have now come to answer a question from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u412	With regard to the agricultural table, the PBL said that the plans from the agricultural sector could not be calculated, they were so vague. So there's not much to expect. My question remains: if you intend to grant subsidies for manure plants and low-emission stables, then you must be sure that there will also be a CO reduction. If that is not the case, then you will not have to give those subsidies. My question to Mr Jetten was whether it would not be wiser to adopt the opinion of the PPE-DE by thinking of reducing livestock. Mr Jetten was open to that. I want to know from this cabinet whether it is looking at that, rather than throwing subsidies into a bottomless pit of manure digesters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u413	The PBL checks that the agricultural table achieves its objective with sufficient certainty. I am not going to deal with measures in the area of a colleague. I would like to comment on the fact that Mrs Thieme is also entitled to ask the cabinet to come up with a climate agreement proposal that will also be discussed here in this Chamber, with sufficient certainty. That's the end product. We commit to the barrels. The way in which I am not going to discuss this on behalf of a colleague. The goal is to get the barrels with sufficient certainty. That's the end product.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u414	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u415	The Prime Minister says with great care that the agricultural sector is going to contribute so that the objectives are met. That was one of the prime good news moments of the Prime Minister yesterday. Then I expect this climate minister to be able to tell us whether the measures for the agricultural sector that the government is considering are actually going to produce CO reduction. At the moment, the PBL says that this will not be possible without a reduction in livestock numbers. So I want to know from the Minister of Climate whether this option is just open, because if Mr Jetten of D66 is open to it but the VVD is not, and we know that the CDA is not open to it either, it is simply a promise that the cabinet makes just before the elections, but that it cannot deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u416	No, there won't be a climate agreement that doesn't reach the barrels. That is the starting point. I'm not gonna stand here and improvise how that happens. It is clear that this must be done. The moment for Mrs Thieme to control the government is when there is a proposal for a final climate agreement. Then she can assess it, see the argument and see if the barrels are reached with it, but this is the moment when a first draft has been passed on. That is what we are all right to say. That's what the Cabinet is doing. But the moment of assessment is when there is a concrete proposal for a climate agreement that will be discussed here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u417	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u418	Mr Klaver asks: what measures does the government intend to take in the agricultural sector? The cabinet does not think about this in the first place; it is the sector that thinks. The sector has offered to look for more CO reduction options. The sector is prepared to do so. The sector is ready to develop measures. That includes resources. Towards the end of April we can see what comes out of it. Then it is also possible for Mr Klaver to debate this. He also asked whether there could also be talk of paying for use in mobility, charging. I would add, obviously but faintly, that I must refer to the coalition agreement. There is very clear language in that. It is not very obvious to see that as one of the solution directions towards the end of April. I have largely answered Mr Van Rooijen's questions. He asked why the highest and lowest 5% were cut off in the table. That's how the CPB does it. The CPB has many good reasons for this, namely not to weigh the extremes because they are not representative. That'll be their reason. But this is how the CPB does it. I stick to the way this independent organisation expresses itself. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether, when reviewing the ODE ratio as it ultimately turns out, we would also like to make it clear how it works for SMEs. I'd like that. Now SMEs are not one block of melted cheese. There are different species in that. I would like to promise him that we will make it clear to typical types of SMEs what this means for the energy bill. Then we can all assess how this works for the different companies, from the bakery to the medium-sized industrial company, and of course for the households.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u419	Thank you for this commitment. Is the Minister prepared to take a broader view of what this means for a number of types of companies in the final definition of the plans, so that we can also gain more sense and insight into what the accumulation of measures at the level of a company produces?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u420	Oh, yeah. That's important. If I didn't think it was important to do what wasn't the case, then my neighbor, the Secretary of State for EZK, who is working on SMEs all day, is definitely interested in that. From my department will therefore be watched closely. But we will come up with concrete examples so that Mr van der Staaij can also give an opinion. Mr Van der Staaij also asked about the stress test. I'm gonna tell him my entire wallet is one big stress test. The stress test, the almighty stress test, does not exist. We need to say that more precisely. As far as the grid capacity is concerned, TenneT does. When it comes to the feasibility of measures, the Planning Office for the Environment does so. As far as affordability is concerned, we have the CPB. When it comes to geothermal energy and the seismic effects, SodM does. The large, all-powerful stress testing institute does not exist, but the Dutch institutions have so many safeguards and checks-and-balances, that on average we have experts looking at complex effects on all aspects of this transition. If that is not the case, then we will find solutions again. But I don't want to put the institutions all under one roof right now and talk about one major stress test. Because that would cause real stress. Mr Asscher has one more point I would like to mention. It's about jobs. I was actually very pleased with his remark, for various reasons. Firstly, our first concern is not to make the jobs disappear. It is very easy to be tough and to announce something big, but we need to look with precision to ensure that the jobs do not actually disappear. Otherwise we will have a very big problem in five industrial regions in the Netherlands. A second point of interest is the transition to the labour market. That's something I have a head-breaking mind about, too. It's not just people who work in a sector where they might not find a job. We must help them to move to other professions. The coal sector is in itself a limited number of people, but comments have been made about it and provisions have been made in the climate agreement. However, it is also a question of the whole training process. I believe that the influx of betas into the MBO is currently below 5%. That's worrying. I visit mbo settings where I watch a heat pump with very enthusiastic students. That's very exciting, but you just want three times as many people there. That is a point of interest which we are confronted with. That deserves all the attention. And that's not so easy. Somehow, administrative professions are sexier. Personally, I can't imagine that much. Give me that heat pump, but we have to warm up a whole generation for that. That's a lot of fun. I'm pretty excited about that myself. If I'm going to be out of place in the labour market as a politician, I'm going to install heat pumps. You can't lose old politicians anywhere. Mr Jetten wondered whether there were any measures that we could take now. I believe that we should not underestimate the underlying actors behind the climate agreement. Work is taking place in a wide range of fields. Unrecoverable measures cannot be taken until there is a legal basis or political decision. But people are busy in all kinds of fields. That is not only a good idea from Mr Jetten. This is what these people have come up with, so we must also give them the credit. Work is under way on the RES, the Regional Energy Strategies and the district-oriented approach. Everywhere, people are busy with some enthusiasm, knowing what's coming, preparing this. We should only encourage this. Mr President, I think I am through all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u421	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u422	Mr. Chairman. I thank the cabinet for answering the questions asked and I welcome this debate. It shows that the cabinet is prepared to actually move towards a CO tax. How it should take shape remains a little unclear, but it is clearly stated that the system that was devised, actually by the industry itself, is not going to work. I am also pleased that the cabinet has indicated that the energy bill for households should be reduced. And yes, we can't make promises. I think that Mr Dijkhoff made a really important point there. We can't say here that that bill should be lowered by 2019, but we can do everything we can to get it done. That's also what I heard from the cabinet side. I am glad that the cabinet is going to inform the Tax Administration about the feasibility, but I would also like to ask it to contact me there I would like to make a commitment with the energy suppliers to see how we can make this possible. Finally. It's only a week until the election. I wish all my fellow Members every success, but it is clear that this cabinet will no longer have a majority after next week and that it must therefore seek broad support. We'll talk on the 21st.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u423	The voter has yet to speak. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u424	Mr. Chairman. I would like to table a motion to reverse the unjust increase in the energy bill. One. Because a lot of people can't afford it and it costs a lot of money. Two. Because it is detrimental to the support for the climate measures we are looking for. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed reduction in the energy account does not appear to be sufficient to compensate for the recent significant increase in the energy account;]] [[noting that people still have to pay a high energy bill;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate for the increase in the energy bill as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Thieme, Mr Klaver and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-309]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u425	They're really teasing me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u426	Yeah, I saw that. You can't do that. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u427	I've got three motions to deal with, if it's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u428	The two naughty men in trade-K. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u429	Yes, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to extend the announced CO levy to the agricultural sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government will significantly reduce taxation of energy for households, as the burden is too high for households;]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of climate and health to consume more fruit and vegetables and less animal products;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the tax on fruit and vegetables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-310]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-311]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u430	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I have discussed the agricultural sector, which, if it were up to this cabinet, would once again be heavily subsidised rather than applying the 'polluter pays' principle. The PBL has made it clear that, if we want to have a healthy agriculture with more farmers and fewer animals, we really need to go to a reduction in livestock, in order to keep the earth habitable and to save the Netherlands from manure surpluses. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to reduce livestock numbers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u431	Finally, Mr President. I am pleased that this debate has given more insight into the intentions of the cabinet. The conclusion is only a little less happy, namely that it all remains very vague and that we have to wait and see what happens. That is why I think it is extremely important that people go to the ballot box on 20 March to let them know what they think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u432	Thank you. Mr Baudet has signed out. Mr Van Rooijen is not here. Mr Van der Staaij does not need a second-term contribution. I call Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u433	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the absence of a CO levy and employment plans justified the trade unions and environmental organisations not to support the climate agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to involve trade unions and environmental organisations in the further development of the measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u434	The background to this motion is that I think it is important that the cabinet not only talks to industry, not only to employers, but also to the trade unions and the environmental movement in a fair manner for that broad consensus. Mr President, my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is saying that it wants to introduce a sensible CO levy;]] [[Whereas the maintenance of jobs and fair distribution of the account are essential in this respect;]] [[calls on the government to develop variants in the development of this CO-taxation using part of the proceeds to ensure a fair distribution of the account and maintenance of jobs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-314]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u435	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u436	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u437	Mr. Chairman. The VVD and this Prime Minister have actually been held hostage by GroenLinks from today or yesterday; I said that in an interruption. I was once this Prime Minister's mentor. I sincerely wonder: when did it ever go wrong with that man? He was someone Wilder's mentor, and now he's in bed with GroenLinks. That can't be good, Mr. Chairman. All madness on a stick, of course, it has to be quite different. We must stop lying and cheating and promising things to the voters just before the elections, when it is completely unclear whether, when and how it is being observed. We must not let these climate plans, which cost a lot and cost a lot of energy, continue. And all those billions that cost those plans, we have to spend on other things, such as care and tax cuts. And we need to get rid of this cabinet. Let me summarize my second term. I put all that in motion, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to stop lying and cheating;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to pass the climate plans and draft climate agreement through the shredder;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to show a little more respect for the opinion of his old mentor and to resign immediately, but at least to issue new elections if his coalition loses the majority in the Senate next week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u438	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u439	Mr. Chairman. I have seven motions and one question. I'll start with the question. That was a question from Mr Klaver. He wants me to give him the promise that the Tax Administration will contact the energy companies. I think I'm gonna have to change it a little bit. I think it is not functional if Mr Klaver and I are now trying to prescribe to the Tax Administration how to do their job. We ask that the Tax Administration seriously look into Mr Klaver's thinking, consider the integral feasibility and, if necessary, contact the energy companies, they will of course do so. But it's their job, and we're gonna respectfully distance ourselves from it. We're judging the end result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u440	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u441	That seems perfectly clear to me; very good. I'd appreciate it if the Chamber would be informed of that as soon as it became known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u442	Sure, sure, sure. That commitment was implicit. In the motion for a resolution, Mrs Marijnissen asks for item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). A large part of the energy bill can't affect the government at all. The quantification is in a third/two-thirds, but with that I must discourage this motion. Mrs Thieme, too, does not fully affect the commitment of the cabinet when she asks for the announced CO levy to apply to the agricultural sector as well. We are concerned with achieving the goals and not with setting the instruments in advance. The goals must be met, that is to reassure. The motion in part No. 311 I've seen before. Reducing the tax on fruit and vegetables is not feasible in isolation. This motion I must advise against. I am referring to the motion for a resolution on the reduction of livestock numbers. 312 It is a question of achieving the objective and not of making specific use of a particular instrument. The offer of the sector to the Minister of LNV to supply more tonnes should be sought more in line with, for example, circular agriculture. I should therefore like to refer to the motion for a resolution, which is part of the motion for a resolution. 312 dissuade. I'll come to the motion in part No. 313. Of course, if the trade union movement and the environmental organizations want to hold this consultation, it is also very welcome on the part of the cabinet. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment. Then the motion to part No. 314. I have made it clear that the cabinet intends to move towards Mr Asscher in order to introduce a certain burden shift. In the letter I also gave an impetus to this. But this isn't necessarily the bet. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 315...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u443	It's addressed to the Prime Minister, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u444	Well, yeah. "Requests the Prime Minister," that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u445	I am happy to give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u446	Mr. Chairman. The form that Mr Wilders has found for this motion upsets me, because it takes advantage of our cooperation at the time when we were both part of the Group of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, and I thought it would be a part of the group for a while at the beginning of 2003 and he taught me how to table motions and request debates. Actually, you didn't have to write "the Chamber, heard the debate" and "get to the order of the day." You could've left all that out. It would also be paper- and therefore energy-saving. The sadness of the evening is that Mr Wilders does not follow those opinions by putting 'the Chamber, heard the debate' and 'the order of the day' on the motion. I regret that and therefore I have to say that otherwise I would be able to take over the motion. Because in a debate on climate, of course, this is an affront.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u447	Mr President, I would like to amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u448	'Hear the debate' and 'turns to order of the day' I remove. I expect the motion to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u449	Yes, Chairman, that's a pit. He would have explained to me that such an answer was unwise on my part. Unfortunately, I have to keep my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u450	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-10.u451	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, the MPs, the staff and the people who have followed this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
