ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	We shall continue with this morning's debate. We then had the first term of office, and that is why we are now going to listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Society is changing and changing, as it sometimes seems, faster and faster. Technology offers new opportunities to gather information about others and to spread rapidly and frequently exponentially. Citizens are getting more powerful. There's less respect for aid workers. Crime changes. In criminal groups, it hardens violence. In the public domain, liquidations are taking place and automatic firearms are being used. It is all developments that require a better response to the social disapproval and unrest associated with certain behaviours, including, perhaps, in today's digital society. It also provides the justification for bringing these issues together. I understand the question put by a number of Members of Parliament. It is a question of adapting to new social developments, changing insights into the seriousness of criminal offences that really require topical intervention. Hence the title current forms of crime. The legislative proposal we are discussing today reflects the need for the legislator to identify shifts in social attitudes about the seriousness of the crimes under discussion. This will then be followed up by proposed tightening-up. Then, with this bill, you do justice to the changed social developments and the ongoing societal views on the severity of some common crimes. Since a single Member raised the question of whether this would be in line with practice, even suggesting that this would not be the case, I would like to stress once again that this legislative proposal has been submitted extensively for advice in all areas to courts of law and the Council of State. These reactions were positive, with natural comments and comments, but still. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal is understandable and balanced, as the Council says before the Court of Justice. The Council for Justice, as the administrative authority of the Dutch judiciary, also says that it sees the importance of this legislative proposal, its social importance, but also its importance for legal practice. The Court of Justice welcomes the fact that it is not enough simply to increase penalties and introduce new criminal offences, but also to opt for accompanying policies. A fair remark, because these proposals are also part of broader plans to put an end to certain current forms of crime. I shall come back to this later, also in relation to the questions raised by a number of Members on the question of the chance of taking action. Let's talk about safety first. To the question of a number of Members whether this proposal really increases security, I can answer that the proposal increases security. On the one hand, it sends out a clear signal to society as to what behaviour we do not accept as a society and what behaviours are prohibited. Clear standards of criminal law can help to raise awareness about social practices within society and the limits to be respected. On the other hand, it also enhances security by providing specifically tailored criminal offences with better opportunities for the detection, prosecution and evidence of such conduct. Think, for example, of the subject of revenge porn. I would now like to call it revenge porn, but I have taken good note of what Mrs Kuik said, namely that we should see if there is any other term for that. I'll come back to that later. Finally, the punitive effect must not be forgotten. Of course, the increase in the penalty ceilings will also make it possible to remove the perpetrators from society for a longer period of time, which will also make the country safer. The increase in the level of punishment also indicates that the judge can take into account the signal that social disapproval has increased. Several members of your Chamber, including Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Hiddema and Mr Markuszower, asked about the connection with the current penalties imposed by the judge and to what extent that proposal will lead to higher penalties. Of course, raising criminal ceilings in practice will not be an automatism for higher penalties. However, an increase in the penalty ceiling requires a new weighting, also by the magistrate, in the assessment of the policy for criminal claims. The expectation is also justified that judges will take into account the level of penalties and penalties adapted within the framework of the increase in the maximum penalty rate, because that is how the system works. In the light of the change in the social standard, the judge is also concerned at any point in time to criminalise certain cases or to impose higher penalties on certain cases. Then there's the chance of getting caught. A number of members asked about the importance of an increased chance. That is an important point, and you can quite rightly refer to it, because it is one of my core tasks: justice and security. But what we need to talk about is increasing police strength. It is well known and I am not going to repeat it long enough here, because I am often debating it with the Members of Parliament present here, but this cabinet is investing in the police structuralally. Last year, this cabinet approved an additional ECU 91 million in exceptional cases in order to be able to cope with the good flow and flow in the police force for the coming years as well. For example, this cabinet also invests in the digitisation and handling of cybercrime. Then it's also about an investment in the police. Finally, at the VAO in this Chamber, I also made a commitment on the matter by the Public Prosecutor's Office that I will look into further possibilities. "Go see" is, I think, a little too weak. I've said it stronger. I have indicated that in the discussion surrounding the Spring Paper I am going to make a strong commitment to a possible reinforcement of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to say straight away to those Members of Parliament who have asked questions about this and are looking forward to it: with the announcement of the Spring paper, we will also know how the hares run. Of course, I am not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	There is a question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	I understand that the Minister is saying this, but we are again dependent on the media. I find it striking that it seems that good news from the Spring note has already been leaked in advance. That good news is that a lot of money, millions of euros, would be made available to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary; I read that message in the Mayreces. And as it happens, just the last day before the Mayreces, there's suddenly, like a devil out of a box, an uncovered motion from the coalition to invest extra in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Let's not fool each other around here. How did this go? Can I therefore get specific answers from the Minister today to the questions: how much money is involved and where does this money come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Van Nispen asks a question based on facts. That doesn't make any sense until the spring note is here. Let's start by establishing that. I do not think you should go on the media. When certain things play, I will give you information about them, a letter or otherwise. I'll give it to you. Last year, for example, when information appeared to have gone to the Chamber, I immediately intervened. I'll be in touch when and as soon as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	If the RTL News report that it would be worth EUR 360 million for the coming years is not correct, then I can follow the Minister. But if the message is true, then the Minister is fooling us here. If the message is correct, then I want the exact figures on how much investment will go to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary in the coming years. If there's been a leak to the media and the Chamber doesn't get that information, then this minister has a problem. He understands, I think, himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	I do not know exactly how to respond to any reports in the media that appear to have appeared last week, which I do not know myself whether they are based on actual information or not. That's really hard for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	It's not that hard. If the information is not correct, we will have to believe it from the Minister, then we will indeed have to wait for the Spring note. Still, things have gone weird with suddenly an uncovered motion that then gets judgment Chamber. Anyway, those are the games; we know them by now. But if the message is correct, then the spring note has been leaked. Then we have the right to get that information to the Chamber immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	I don't know what should have leaked. Once again, it is only when the Spring Note has been adopted in the Cabinet and given information about it that we know exactly what it looks like and what it says. I would nevertheless like to contradict the idea or suggestion that there has been a set-up for uncovered cheques. Once again, in the context of that well-known VAO OM statement, which I believe is true, but now I am talking out of my mind, some 23, 24, 25 April or so, following a rather spicy debate that we had on certain aspects of the financing of the criminal justice chain, it has been stated in a motion that I should make a strong commitment to the position of the Public Prosecutor. I've left that motion to judge Chamber. That is not an uncovered cheque, but that is a minister who says: I understand that the Chamber says that I should go for one of my own services.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	I understand Mr Van Nispen's unbelief, because it was, of course, an uncovered cheque. There's a verdict Chamber for a motion to invest more in the Public Prosecutor's Office. We have all said: very good, because we have already been asked for it. But of course that was an exciting moment. Because at the moment when we as an opposition are asking for something without money, well, then that will be cut off. So that was definitely a bizarre moment. I don't know what the spring note says. We'll wait and see. The minister was just talking about increasing the chance of getting caught. Of course, that doesn't just require the D.A.'s office. It's also about the police delivering the files properly to the D.A.'s office. Now you should occasionally say birds to say: yes, maybe the promised investment will be cut, just to invest in the quality and support of the police in order to ensure that the files are better delivered to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Can the Minister at least promise that this extra investment, which was taken out of a high hat, will not be at the expense of the promised investments, in any area, of the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	We should get the text of the motion. That motion asked me to make me strong with the Minister of Finance, whether or not with the hat in hand, however you want to see it, for additional resources for the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's what the motion says. Anything else that Mrs Buitenweg now puts in the text goes beyond the scope of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	Then I'd like to step outside the scope of the motion. Then I ask the Minister whether he promises that there will be no investment in the Spring Paper in the Public Prosecutor's Office at the expense of promised investments in the police, including to ensure that better files are delivered to the Public Prosecutor, thus increasing the chances of getting caught?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	I will come back to the point I made at the time: I am not going to anticipate what the cabinet decides in the Spring paper. This is highly unusual, and I would be very disappointed not only by Mr Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, but also by all the other rulers. So I'm not going to anticipate that in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	I note that the Minister would like to anticipate the Spring note when it comes to an uncovered cheque from the coalition, because it promises something that will soon have to be covered by the Spring note........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	Once again, this kind of qualifications goes beyond what was in the motion and what I left to the Chamber of Justice, namely that I would stand up for the Public Prosecutor's Office. Well, I'd like to say here that I'm actually doing that. Mr. Chairman. I was working on the chance of getting caught: you've got bad guys, but you want to make sure that the chance of us taking them all in their necks for the crime they commit is serious. I would like to sum up, within the framework of all the motions and all the things that have ever been adopted: as a cabinet, we are working structuralally on a substantial increase in police strength and structuralally on additional money for cases such as new forms of crime, such as cybercrime. A lot of other things are being worked on by the Cabinet. We have plenty of debates on this in the coming period. Today, as Mrs Buitenweg pointed out, I really want to take that back. But it's also just about how it works: people are out of society for a long time and under lock and key. But that's just one of the cases. All these other things, such as a good prevention policy, are well steered to increase the chances of getting caught and ensure a solid detection are all part of it. Today we are talking about updating legislation in such a way that we are criminalising a number of cases that have not been or have not been criminalised so far and increasing the penalty rate of a number of cases that seem to be paying more and more in society. Mr. Chairman. Also for the sake of your time and that of all those present, I will proceed immediately to the subjects of the bill. I deal with the questions on a subject-by-issue basis, starting with the first important point, the new criminalisation of the obstruction of aid workers. I found in the letter of 8 June last year that during the turn of the year, police and aid workers were 100% committed to helping people in need and saving lives, but beyond that, too, it is those people who are taking a step forward and who, in difficult situations, are helping our society, groups in society or individuals. It's unheard of when they're being obstructed. As far as I am concerned, it is really socially unacceptable that aid workers are increasingly being hampered by the important work they are doing. And I'm not even talking about the fact that it's ungrateful. A wide range of criminalisation and an appropriate maximum penalty, as currently stated in the legislative proposal, should contribute to countering this extremely reprehensible behaviour. In the prosecution's criminal law policy, aggression or violence against workers with a public service mission already acts as a major penalty, but, as announced in last year's letter, a separate criminalisation is proposed in addition to this for obstructing aid workers. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions were asked about this. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked whether police officers who are victims of violence are reluctant to report them themselves, to be informed again, and whether this can be made known to all current agents, newly employed agents and boas. Case managers have been appointed to the police for cases of aggression and violence against police officers. Every police officer facing aggression or violence is assigned such a case manager, who assists in the entire handling of that experience and who supervises the whole process. One of the possibilities is that the employer makes a declaration on behalf of the person concerned. The VPT programme has provided various supporting materials for this purpose. This also applies mutatis mutandis to boas. This is regularly brought to the attention of police officers on a regular basis. I agree with Mr Van Wijngaarden that we should really take people with us, because certainly the police, but also other aid workers, sometimes tend not to take those experiences as hard as we would like, perhaps for the sake of strength. But that's what they're helped with. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked whether there was a regulation for people who help and assist workers so that they could be recognised and appreciated. Let me say first of all that it is right that we should give appreciation and recognition to those bystanders who make good contributions in emergency situations. That's what's actually happening. I don't think it's necessary to put any extra effort on that from the government, but of course we could always look nationally at the overview of that image. Perhaps we can discuss this in the second term. Mr Van der Staaij drew attention to the unpaid workers. This amendment is specifically aimed at hindering aid workers during the performance of an aiding task, but this does not mean that all those who work for society and provide assistance deserve recognition and appreciation. In criminal law, we have, also in order to be very clear, the protection aimed at aid workers who are hindered during their work. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the public service ban on obstructing aid workers. The criminal offence is a member of the criminal offence in Article 426a of the Criminal Code, in which obstruction on the public road is punishable as an offence. A higher maximum sentence for detention of up to three months or a fine of the third category shall apply in relation to the ordinary obstacle. That is on the basis of the opinions we have received from an expert point of view and as it has been reviewed by the Council of State and other bodies. This is in line with the nature and seriousness of the crime within the system. The public service ban currently applies to serious violent and sexual crimes. There is a legislative proposal currently under preparation which extends the public service ban to abuse and qualified forms of abuse against officials with a public service remit, but that is a separate legislative proposal, which is still coming. Mr Markuszower asked if I am prepared to ask aid workers what they themselves think is appropriate punishment. This bill has been consulted via an internet consultation. On that occasion, many aid workers expressed a positive opinion on the new criminality of obstruction. The police also responded positively to this change in the opinion on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr Markuszower, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	It is good to hear that a survey has been carried out, but it asked: do you want a sentence? Or was asked: what do you think is a suitable punishment? That was the question. What does the Minister himself think is a suitable punishment for a person who, for example, interferes with an aid worker during old and new times, putting other people at risk, or who might be harmed by that aid worker himself in his well-being and should defend his body and well? What does the Minister think is a suitable punishment? Is that really three months? And what do those paramedics think of themselves as a suitable punishment? So it's not just a question of whether they're okay with a criminal act. Yeah, me too. You agree with me, and we all agree with you, but what do you think is a suitable level of punishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	Let me explain what an internet consultation means. If there is a new legislative proposal, certainly a legislative proposal with such a certain social impact and also with a renewal of this bill, we are now also having an internet consultation, in which all interested individuals or organisations, sometimes with pre-selection but often without pre-selection, have the opportunity to let their light shine on it. This means that they can indicate how they view this in all respects. Once again, I have given you a summary of these reactions, also for the sake of time, but of course the Chambers have already said something else about this. However, it is very clear that both individual aid workers and aid organisations are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	At the risk of missing it, although I do not think so, I ask the Minister if he can send me the conclusions of the internet consultation on the level of punishment once again. I've seen people agree that there should be a punishment, but not the level of punishment. Perhaps the Minister himself can shed his light on that, just with an example. He could say: "On December 31, 2018, this and this happened. I think there should have been a punishment for this and this." By "I," I mean the Minister. I would also like to have the judgment of the aid workers themselves. I cannot imagine that the aid workers themselves are happy with only three months at the most. In the Netherlands that amounts to net one or two days in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	I must leave that last observation by Mr Markuszower on his behalf. As far as the other is concerned, I have already indicated in my introduction that this bill has passed through all the expert advisors and through all the practitioners such as the judiciary and the Council of State. From that comes a certain outcome. The internet consultation is also included in this. It also takes into account the extent to which a particular penalty imposed on a crime, in this case on the obstruction or harassment of aid workers who perform their work, fits within our overall system. What is stated in this bill is the result. Then the subject of child abuse. The extension of criminal liability for child abuse is part of the programme Violence belongs nowhere. That programme aims at reducing and reducing the damage caused by domestic violence and child abuse. A lot of people don't have a safe environment at home. Many children have no safe environment at home. The damage that that causes is great. Domestic violence and child abuse are the most common cases of violence in the Netherlands. I find it incredibly sad to have to say that. The odds of dealing with domestic violence or child abuse are greater than the chances of any other form of violence. With the programme Violence belongs nowhere the cabinet wants to try to stop domestic violence and child abuse and at least to reduce it very far. In addition, it wants to limit its damage. The circle of violence and its transfer from generation to generation must be broken. I would like to stress that, of course, these kinds of programmes are not just a part of criminal law, but we are talking about this today. The proposal contains several elements for the criminal part. Firstly, an extension of the limitation period so that victims can also report later, for example after they have reached the age of majority. Secondly, the systematic nature of the abuse becomes a separate ground for increasing penalties. Finally, abuse of a minor entrusted to a person's care is also grounds for increasing his sentence. It's very terrible when a minor entrusted to you is being abused by you or you allow this to happen in that situation. There were a number of questions about that. Mr Van Wijngaarden wondered why there was a limitation period for child abuse at all. It's a disgusting crime, so why don't we do it without a statute of limitations? The limitation period in the general system of our Criminal Code depends on the level of the legal penalty threat. The higher the threat of punishment, the more serious the fact and the need for punishment and the longer the limitation period. In the case of simple abuse, there is a limitation period of six to twelve years. It can go up to 20 years with more serious forms. This bill regulates that the limitation period of the crime does not begin until the child becomes 18 years old. So all these deadlines work from that moment on, so there is already an automatic extension in that. I have just explained that we consider that really important. That way, as an adult, if you're out of that unsafe, traumatized situation or whatever, with a statute of limitations only starting to run, you still have the opportunity to report that crime yourself. This is, moreover, a statute of limitations similar to that applicable to sex crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you for the Minister's reply. In the case of someone who took place shortly before the 18th year of life and who was a simple or mild abuse, this would mean that the limitation period on the basis of this bill would expire after six years. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	Wait a minute. Let's look at the statute of limitations of someone who was abused at 14 years of age. If that is a serious abuse, a 20-year limitation period would apply, but it will only run from the age of 18. In essence, he will have a period of limitation of 24 years. Let me explain that to people. That means that person could file a 42nd report without a statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	I understand very well that there is an existing system. The dilemma is a little bit that people can, of course, work like this in a psychological way.I also speak with those types of victims, that that traumatic experience does not come up again until very late in their lives. They will then be faced with a limitation period. Does the Minister share the view that by maintaining a limitation period you are still holding that risk? Is he prepared to take this as a focus for the evaluation of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	You know, you'd have to take all the statute of limitations into the whole system. When I look around here, I think we all agree that child abuse is terrible. We think that's one of the worst things. I've said enough about that. I think we all do. In the legislative proposal we went to see how we could make the limitation period as long as possible, so that someone who is now mature really has as long as possible to get back to what happened to him or her in childhood. We've really extended and stretched that as much as possible. The moment we don't stay in the system, you're gonna take out building blocks and you're gonna have all kinds of other problems. Then someone goes to court to say for another crime: the limitation periods are not right or are not fair. We have to take that into account. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to move on to the subject of "hate sow." I do not need to make it clear that this cabinet likes freedom of expression very much, but it is not a free pass for inciting hatred and/or violence. The cabinet wants to draw a line on statements inciting violence, hatred or discrimination. The right to freedom of expression must be prevented from being abused in order to cause discrimination in society. I think Mrs Buitenweg or Mr Groothuizen or both said that; excuse me if I do one or the other short. This is very important. Why is hate-sowing a criminal offence? Why is discrimination punishable? Why is it also punishable by inciting them to do so? That's because that makes people oppressed, that they can't participate freely in society. So you're actually just celebrating your own hate, your own discrimination at the expense of others. We do not want that in our society, and that is why we are criminalising it. We need to understand that. So this is not just about inciting violence. No, it also refers to inciting hatred against homosexuals, Jews, Catholics or people of certain ethnic origin. If you incite hatred, you make it for someone whether Jewish or gay, very oppressive and anxious to live in society. We do not want that, and that is something that is criminal in our society. It was already, but for the sowing of hatred, we are going to double the punishments, because, as I said in my introduction, we see a development in society that sometimes freedom of speech turns into things like hate sows for people who do not mean it. Mr. Chairman. There were some questions about that. Mr Van Nispen asked about the need for this doubling and whether it would not be wiser to look at an increase in the chances of getting caught. That's what I've been talking about. I therefore believe that this opportunity is one element, but in addition, this doubling is quite clearly an increase which expresses the social standard that we have for this. Mr Van Nispen also asked whether you should also keep an eye on websites, whether that is sufficiently continued to the police and whether there is capacity for them. A lot of efforts are being made on the Internet to remove hateful messages. Last Tuesday, when I answered the oral questions on child pornography in your Chamber, I also referred to tackling terrorist content online, at European level. A code of conduct has been agreed. One of the most important efforts of this Code is the settlement and removal of hate speech after user reports, within 24 hours. There is also a Communication from the European Commission calling on Internet platforms to combat illegal content in compliance with Articles 14 and 15 of the so-called e-commerce Directive. It is good that the Commission says: fine, if you do commerce on the Internet, if that's your shop or business, that's the e-commerce side, but you have a social obligation to remove hate-sorting and that sort of thing. As I said on Tuesday, I discussed it with Commissioner Jourova on Tuesday at the end of the afternoon. I admit that my primary goal at that time was: how are we going to tackle child abuse or child pornography much harder online? However, we have also talked about further strengthening the approach in the next Commission period, so allowing for measures to address hate-sowing online. Mr. Chairman. I'll get on with it. As for the capacity of the police, discrimination is really a subject that can be picked up by any police officer. It is also very clear in the training of the Police College, which I have mentioned before. In addition to notifications on online platforms, there is also the MiND hotline. This is assessed by assessing whether the contested expression can be classified as a criminal offence due to possible aspects of discrimination and the like. If that is the case, a request for removal will follow and notification may also be made to the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	Appreciate the Minister's commitment to Europe. Can he look at the Commission's approach to considering measures towards providers and platforms that are not sufficiently responsible for what has been called for? Are more sanctions included? Is that something that's being considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr President, I am going to say it all very quickly. I would just like to say that before the summer I come to your Chamber with a so-called administrative approach when it comes to child pornography online in the Netherlands. We are going to amend the law so that you can immediately impose a fine on providers who facilitate this, without having to go to court in a criminal trial with three courses. I have pointed out to Commissioner Jourová that we should actually have such a system from Europe in the field of hate-sowing. If someone asks me "why from Europe?', I would say that this is something of course, and it is about Internet providers, which goes beyond borders. A few of you have already noticed. So we really need to work together in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	I couldn't agree more. Thank you very much for this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	The Minister says that in society he sees a tendency to hate sow and that he therefore wants to double the level of punishment. But the number of murders has also increased in recent years. The number of rapes is also increasing, especially with the import of many so-called refugees, immigrants and lucky seekers. The number of aggravated assaults and robbery has also increased in recent years. The odds of getting caught are small, but the number of felonies is increasing. Then why didn't the Minister make a double effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr Markuszower rightly asks me critically whether this is all I do. No, this isn't all I do. I have already stated in your Chamber that I will indeed send a letter to the Chamber before the summer on the tightening up of certain parts of the law on sexual harassment in relation to rape, but I am not going to anticipate that now. Furthermore, we have established that we really need to look at the beginning of my story, that a number of forms of crime, which have not yet been properly regulated in our criminal law, occur as a result of social developments. They are not yet punishable or the penalty is far too low. That's what this bill is really for. That is why some Members of Parliament also have a bit of a critical look, such as "well, there are a lot of different kinds of topics," but that was done on purpose. For a number of other subjects, we already have a very firm measure of punishment, but I will certainly return to your Chamber on the subject of rape, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	I was wondering if the minister had finished the cup of police. He said in a sense that this is taken by the police academy, but I think there's a lot more to do. Because you know there's an incredible amount of discrimination, just because of the sexual orientation or the identity of people. You can see that in the end quite few people report and that they often feel unholy about themselves. More work can be done on Pink in Blue, for example. So I was wondering if we're gonna get a whole page or if this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	Well, no, Mrs Buitenweg is quite right when she says that much more is happening. I must confess, however, that I will have a debate with your Chamber with my colleague from Education in which I will discuss the action plan for Ihbtqi. In that, I will justify the fact that there are a number of great ambitions in that action plan. I really think that discrimination is an evil that must be fought everywhere. I want to remain ambitious in that. I can list that whole list, but then I'm going to anticipate that debate a little bit. But let me make one thing clear: the police are buzzing on a large number of points. The question was, in fact, whether the police have sufficient capacity, which I thought I would answer with Mr Van Nispen's one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	Then I will just send a message to my colleague who will be holding that debate so that she can look forward to the Minister's enormous ambition in a moment. The point, in my view, is that many organisations have said that this action plan is still very moderate on the part of the police. But I will give the Minister a chance to put that picture right in its entirety later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	I am, of course, grateful to your Chamber for that, I say through you, Mr President. Then there was the point made by Mr Hiddema, who asked me if I could explain the terrifying effect of the hate-sowing article, and whether I could also comment on the matter concerning the Member of Parliament, Mr Wilders, and how that article of law is profitable. Well, freedom of expression is a great asset, as I have already said. In addition to the fact that this freedom is enshrined in our Constitution, there is also the prohibition of discrimination as a result of Article 1 of our Constitution. If freedom of expression conflicts with freedom of non-discrimination, it is up to the court to determine the weighting to be used. The cabinet exudes that freedom of expression may go far, but that it is not unlimited. If you cross that line by sowing hatred, the judge can punish it afterwards. We are making that policy very clear. That is a terrifying policy, indeed, because it makes it clear to people that, if they surrender to it, they have the consequences of having to bear it in the form of an imposed punishment. The policy is also terrifying because we are making it very clear. Think of the issue already raised by Mr Van Wijngaarden about the American anti-homo-hate preacher. This has been declared undesirable within the Schengen area, partly on the grounds that the law states that hate is punishable or calls for discrimination. Mr President, Mr Hiddema wants to interrupt, but I will finish some points first. Of course, I am not going to say anything about Mr Wilders' case, because that case is on appeal. Mr Grothuizen has observed that this case has been going on for many years, even before my arrival. At the moment, I am the Minister of Justice and, following the separation of powers, it is not up to me to interfere with what the magistrate of a particular case thinks. As to the costs, I would like to say that the Public Prosecutor does not have a separate budget for this type of business. The Public Prosecutor's Office is here to uphold the rule of law. That's what the state's attorney's office does on its own, without instructions from me. As a minister, I can give a so-called clue, but I'll come to your chamber first. That's the rules of the game. That's enough to show how independent the state's attorney's office is. The judiciary is completely independent. Mr President, then I had another...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	If you want to interrupt, you'll have to get to the interrupting microphone first, Mr. Hiddema. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	The judge and the prosecution operate independently, but the minister conducts policy. It must be able to weigh costs and benefits in order to assess whether policy is still useful in the future. In this context, I have indeed raised the deterrent effect of 137d, but in a very different sense. How much does all this terrifying effect cost? What has the Wilders trial cost so far? This must be reconstructed on the basis of all the magistrates involved in the case, the duration of the hearing, the costs of witnesses and free legal aid to the injured parties. Surely there should be an assessment of what all this costs, if the Minister himself were to become curious about it? There's got to be some way to get what this cost us. My simple question so far is how to turn into a deterrent charge based on Article 147d in financial terms. What has it cost society so far? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u37	I would not have fully understood Mr Hiddema. Apparently, he means a deterrent cost effect. Well, let me make a very brief initial point of departure on this. The rule of law is a great asset in the Netherlands. For years, the Netherlands has been in fifth place worldwide in terms of the functioning of the rule of law. We have a police force that, okay, I admit, top 6, just doesn't top 5, and so on, and so on. I'm not gonna tire you out with all these institutions. As a minister, I have nothing to do with an individual trial, and I am not going to interfere with what an individual trial costs. There is a procedure currently under way or there has been a procedure for a year in which Mr Baudet has filed a criminal complaint against my colleague in the Interior. Surely it would really be up to the wild spiders to find out as a chamber that I had said: well, what should that cost? I have to stay away from that. The case of Mr Wilders is, by the way, from a number of years ago. I'm responsible for it, but I haven't been there personally. A number of complaints were filed on which the Public Prosecutor's Office started a case. I can assure you that this Minister of Justice has nothing to do with what is happening in that case. And I end with the first sentence: the rule of law is a great good thing and a minister like this should not interfere with what it does not cost when a case is brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u38	Salute for the rule of law, which is called the Netherlands, but let us ensure that it remains so and that we can regularly pay tribute to the functioning of the rule of law in the future. As far as the Baudet case is concerned, you should not be wronged, for that would lead you to misconceptions, since that did not cost the State a dime. Mr Baudet will pay for his own costs. I would like to know the benefits and the costs of seeing how much that hate-sowing article costs us financially. Surely that should lead to insight for you, too? We had nine cases in 2007 with a community service for each of us. You will find it worthwhile to harness this article and strengthen it by increasing the penalty limit to two years. All right, pay tribute to the rule of law. That article is now firmly in the scaffolding. It is precisely because it is so acclaimed and we strongly reject discrimination that I ask you whether the existing rules in the Penal Code do not provide a cheaper way, so that we do not need that damned article. Because the costs are getting out of hand. That is what I am trying to make clear to you, in the sense that you come to a business decision or that it may not be useful in the future to avoid these mega-processes on the basis of two words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u39	Good to explain a few things really clearly to Mr Hiddema. Moreover, a criminal complaint brought by Mr Baudet also costs money according to this whole system, as officers and judges are also working on it. So let's not talk too much about that. It all costs money. But let's take a positive look. You also have to look at the benefits. I have been given the benefit of including in the law a criminalisation of hate-sowing, if it sets a standard by which we can make it clear that a hate-preacher who curses gays is not desirable in the Netherlands and throughout the Schengen area. I think that is a great social benefit. Then you, as a Chamber, can certainly call me to account for that, in the sense of what I am actually doing, because I understand that very well. I also think it is a great social benefit if someone who has managed to call hell and damnation on Jews in the Netherlands, to name but a few, is persecuted and punished, and that the entire public, from young to old, is witness to that and sees that and why we do not accept that in this society. That is what I call a social benefit, and I would hope that the Democracy Forum will also go along with me. I really think we should say: we do not want this in our society. Article 1 of our Constitution says that everyone is equal. Then we all have to be able to live equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u40	The Minister is at the right place at the Forum for Democracy. Forum for Democracy has raised two hateful imams to this minister and asked: continue these people. It was this minister who said that this could not be based on 137d. This minister has a minister, may I put it this way, a little less insight into the possibilities offered by the article. The experience so far is that, if applied from a state point of view, it costs a lot of money and can lead to political opportunistic persecutions, let us say. That harms confidence, and that creates schizophrenia. But again my question: is the Minister able to draw up a state of the costs incurred in the Wilders Process to date, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u41	I have already explained that the Minister does not interfere with individual matters. I therefore do not interfere with what an individual case has cost. Can I do it? I'm just gonna stay out of that. I think I'd be repeating myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u42	You're continuing, I suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Van der Staaij had a question on this subject, on the level of punishment. Should we increase it if it wears off again? One of the reasons is that it sends a strong signal. Mr Van der Staaij did not just mention this bill as a collector, he put that strict term between quotes. But this is such a collection of subjects, because we also need to balance things more closely in the code of conduct, in relation to what is happening in society. We see a hardening in society. Digitisation, online forums and social media offer ample opportunities to find a stage, but unfortunately also a stage for discrimination, hatred and violence. We need to do something with that: the cabinet, hopefully together with the Chamber. I am aware that increasing the penalty ceiling does not automatically lead to an increase in the penalty rate, as I said earlier. It does mean that the judge and the Public Prosecutor see in the Code that this is a fact that clearly has a higher degree of criminal qualification. This is an indication of its social importance. Mr Van Wijngaarden has asked a number of questions about how to deal with hate preachers, but I have already answered most of them. I would also like to say that we extremist speakers from visa-free countries can refuse or withdraw the visa. That is what we have seen: look at what has just happened to Mr A. in San F. from the USA. Third-country nationals can be registered in the Schengen Information System, the SIS, if they pose a threat to public order or national security. They can do that if they come from a non-visa country. They are therefore banned from the whole Schengen area. There have been a huge number of bilateral meetings in recent years precisely to exchange information on speakers inciting hostility. As I said, it is a phenomenon that we have just seen that it has become more common, perhaps because the spread through the Internet has become so much easier. I should like to leave it to Mr Van Wijngaarden to answer his questions in the first period. I could tell you a lot more about that. I hope it is clear to him that at least dealing with it is a subject that is very close to my heart. Then there was the question of early action against extremist speakers. I would like, as I would like to do, to control the expectations somewhat in advance, or to manage of expectations. No, I shouldn't go on a goat path to the state's attorney's office. We have just had, in the very interesting discussion I had with one of your fellow Members a few moments ago about why and what that hate-sowing costs now, given that... No sugar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u44	The coke bill's gonna go up a lot, I'm sure, Minister. The first two are free, but it's going to be in the papers now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u45	I don't have any food stamps anymore, Mr President, so I think I'm going to put my own trailer on the Square with a tap from now on. But let me return to Mr Van Wijngaarden, because I think this is an important point. In the discussion, you saw that it is sensible, even in the context of the rule of law, it is good that I do not go on such goat paths. That's one. I must leave the Public Prosecutor's Office in the open on this socially important and sensitive subject, also because there may be some discussion about where hate-sowing begins and where provocate and that sort of thing ends. You should leave that discussion to the experts of the D.A.'s office. A political figure like me, even though I have ever studied law, should not be involved. That goat's path is one thing. I do think I should tell Mr Van Wijngaarden that I am really putting my hand into the fire that the Public Prosecutor is indeed on top of this. Last year, when I wasn't doing that for so long, we talked a few times about this in connection with a hate preacher, Mr Fawaz J. I'll just say. At that time, we saw that sometimes it's difficult matter. But the authorities, the police, the D.A.'s office and all those hotlines I just mentioned are really on top of them at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u46	The Fawaz J. was the problem and today, too, the problem is that the Minister refuses to tackle imams for inciting violence. All that has to be done under that heading of "inciting hatred" and then it's tricky. I see a minister who wants to limit freedom of expression, but does not address the real problems, imams who call for violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u47	Last year, we discussed this thoroughly, with a good contribution from Mr Markuszower. I've indicated that you have people who are just within that limit of what is and isn't legal. I said I'm working on ways to change the law. That's not this bill, but that's a bill to, for example, make "confession" more qualified if it can lead to violence. That could have played there. I hope to discuss this with the Chamber soon. Then there were a few questions from Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Wijngaarden about the penalty for other discrimination provisions. Article 137d in relation to Article 137c, the general article for group termination, can be seen as a next step on the escalation ladder. You can see that 137d doesn't yet express that. We want to do this by increasing the prison sentence for 137d, inciting hatred and discrimination. It is precisely when it comes to discrimination that we must have the starting point that the different forms of discrimination against one another keep pace in terms of punitiveness. If that is felt, we could talk more fundamentally about it in the future. I've said this before. Discrimination against homosexuals must not be allowed to go into criminal matters other than discrimination against, for example, an ethnic group, because then there will be differences between those groups, and that is not good. Then you no longer have Article 1 of the Constitution: each is equal for the Constitution. It may be a different debate, but I think we should consider whether we should pay more attention to it if these discrimination monitors show that certain forms of discrimination seem to have more influx. I think that's the best way to go. Mrs Buitenweg asked about sex protection. She referred to the General Law on Equal Treatment. I have indeed promised to consider whether gender identity and expression should be added to Article 137c. I will do so in consultation with the National Expertise Centre Discrimination of the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the COC and the TNN. With them I will look into the cases in which the current possibilities are inadequate. If I may take Mrs Buitenweg's words in such a way as to ask her to consider whether it should be clarified that the term'sex' in the other non-discrimination provisions includes gender characteristics, gender identity and expression, then I would like to say that I want to do so. I think we really need to work on this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u48	I understand that the Minister says: okay, then I'm also going to see if it needs to be replicated and whether it may not be sufficiently clear in articles other than 137c in any other way, because it says "sex" and should include gender identity and gender expression. But my question was also whether your gender should not also be taken as ground in 137c. The Minister said he would investigate whether gender identity and gender expression should be below 137c. I think that is quite a crazy figure when you include gender expression and gender identity in the other articles under the ground "sex" and choose a different system at 137c, namely to include the words "gender expression" and "gender identity" on its own. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u49	I want to take over that point. I say: we need to see whether it should be clarified that this term "sex" also includes in other non-discrimination provisions, i.e. in the whole field of non-discrimination articles, including gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. So I'm prepared to pick that up and then we're going to look at that in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u50	That's two different things. Apart from 137c, these other articles contain the word "sex," for example: on the grounds of sex, you must not incite hatred and such. I hear the Minister say that we are going to see whether it is clear that this includes gender identity and gender expression. That's really good. I'm really glad they're watching that. The other point is how he wants to deal with 137c, because it does not contain the word "sex." I understand that he is going to look into gender expression and gender identity in his research, but is it true that he is saying that we are going to see if it might be better to include the whole word "sex" and explicitly include "gender identity" and "gender expression"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u51	They are, to put it bluntly, long words: gender identity and gender expression. But I would like to say that we are going to look at what is not in Article 137c in broad terms, so also looking at what is not in Article 137c, to see if you should fill it out differently. But that is an open question and we really need to see how that works out, because there are aspects to that. It will also be possible, for example, that you would make group termination of men punishable. So that's... I'll come back to you there, but I just want to say that it's a little more fundamental than it might be now. But we're going to come back to you about that. It will be an extremely substantive discussion. That's for sure! Mr. Chairman. The next topic is abuse of sexual footage. Mrs. Kuik is not here for a while, but "revenge porn" is actually the term to a large extent. You could also say "abuse porn," but that's another confusing term, because then you think it's just about... Very often but not always it's abuse. As Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly pointed out, it is often people who actually do so in the intimacy of their relationship or in love or simply do so. Then they'll have that made, and that term won't be right. If you approve of this debate, I would like to continue with the term'revenge porn', because at least people's motives for distributing that footage are very inappropriate. It is an independent criminal offence that is punishable. This is a typical example of a crime of which, if you had addressed me ten or fifteen years ago, I had looked a little dazzled and said: 'Isn't there a fact that people are going to spread an intimate picture of someone they loved, an ex or something or not?' Yes, unfortunately that is a very nasty phenomenon that occurs. Then you should immediately pay attention to the role of Internet providers, as Mr Van Nispen rightly points out. Most of the providers adhere to the rules of the notice-and-take-down procedure. Of course, when companies decide to dispose of them themselves, there is no need for an order. By the way, this notice-and-take-down procedure has been shortened to 24 hours in an agreement I concluded in December. Then there is a small group of companies that are of course the real bad guys who often go on the so-called dark web. Just so we're clear, the dark web isn't some kind of dark Internet that's somewhere separate. With the dark web we indicate the collective name of all kinds of highly encrypted channels on or within the internet domain. There's a lot of bad guys on that dark web. They are difficult to combat, but that is what we are focusing on. That is, of course, one of the most important groups that we need to get small. Mr Van Nispen also asked about the inappropriate footage. He asked if there should be more money for the expertise center, the EOKM. He was wondering exactly what that was like. The EOKM has applied for a grant of €335,000 for 2019. He's in treatment right now. I'll keep your Chamber informed. But we need to be aware of this, and I say this immediately, that this is primarily an important task for the police. That is why I made money available to the police last year, by the way, from extra money granted to me by the Ministry of Finance on an occasional basis, to buy a so-called webcrawler. That's a digital device. You shouldn't imagine that very physically that has hundreds of thousands of identities in the form of codes of photos. They can recognize them on the Internet and take them off at the same time with very large amounts. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked about the abuse of sexual footage. He asked if we could go criminal against that Internet fora. Yes, we can, but there's a prosecution exclusion ground if they've kept their end of the bargain under the notice-and-take-down rule. If they do not respond, the Public Prosecutor can indeed, under Article 125p of the Code of Criminal Procedure, order measures to be taken and eventually even, if they are not followed up, to establish that there is a criminal offence. What is an image of a sexual nature, asked Mr Van der Staaij. That is an image that has such an intimate sexual character that it will be considered private by any reasonable thinking person. It can therefore be visual material on which a naked body of a person can be seen or on which a partially exposed body can be seen and body parts such as breasts, buttocks or genitals are prominently depicted. Also footage of someone who, partly or partly exposed, performs sexual acts on or own body or another body, can soon be an image of a sexual nature. If made public images are private but have no or hardly any sexual character, criminal action may be taken depending on the circumstances of the case. Let's get that straight. This concerns other criminal provisions, which we are not talking about today. We are talking about provisions relating to cases where there has been a breach of privacy. Mr Van der Staaij also asked about prevention policy. I can say a lot about that. In particular, I would like to draw attention to my ministry's cooperation with the Ministries of Education, Culture and Science and of Health, Welfare and Sport in a number of programmes to involve young people in particular and to tackle young people's prevention very well. That is what Mrs Van Toorenburg was right to talk about. Very often young people sometimes also know people who are older, but especially young people who do not know at all what they are getting into. About a week and a half ago there was a message that many young boys had been tempted to make intimate images of themselves and those over the Internet, about knowing-what-what, to send to someone else. That turns out to be often a decoy criminal, I'll say, who has pretended to be a nice girl or something. These are real practices where we need to measure not only with criminal law, but also with good preventive policies, with warning young people and children. Because when you're 10 or 12 you don't see what huge consequences can be if you just think you're sending such a picture of yourself. Mr. Chairman. I still have Mrs Van Toorenburg's question as to how the new criminal offence relates to grooming and sextortion. Grooming is approaching a child online with the aim of committing sexual abuse. This is punishable in 248th Criminal Law as a sex crime and certain forms of grooming can also be brought under 248a Criminal Law. I am not going to have a very technical discussion with Mrs Van Toorenburg here, but at least there are a number of things that are already possible in criminal law. The single production or possession of child pornography footage................................................................................................................................................................................................ If children's footage is not made public but is used as a means of blackmail, you will have to prosecute for that alone, but also for even more serious sexual offences. Sextortion, extortion or threat of disclosure of sexual footage can be addressed under Articles 317 and 318 of the current Criminal Code. Fortunately, we already have rules for this in our law, so that people who do that can be dealt with immediately. The secret production, also a question from Mrs Van Toorenburg, of images of a sexual nature as well as their possession and disclosure falls within the scope of the new Article 139h, first paragraph a and b, Criminal law. If secretly made footage is placed on the Internet for the purpose of approaching the image, there may also be a criminal conduct within the meaning of that same article, Article 139h, but under paragraph 2. I will finish the round with Mrs Van Toorenburg, with the groups. With this new criminalisation, it will also be easier for the Public Prosecutor to detect, prosecute and condemn perpetrators of abuse, even if they operate in a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u52	I have a brief question on that. Can the groups that collect these kinds of things and watch each other's images be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u53	We're actually talking about these peeping sites. Yes. The viewers will think: it's a boring gang with all those numbers and numbers. So there are already a lot of legal regulations, and we are adding a few to them. Depending on the circumstances, peeping websites are sometimes covered by one article and sometimes by another. The new Article 139h offers a great deal of opportunity for this. When it comes to minors, Article 240b, the Code of Criminal Law also offers opportunities. Let me repeat it out loud: even the possession of child pornography is punishable! Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u54	So I understand that whoever hosts this is also being addressed in the way the Minister tries to do so, the way he has repeatedly indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u56	But if someone is looking for it, is going to look at it and respond to it, so is actually a consumer of those peeping websites? So what do we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u57	Of course, that's just a criminal offence. I won't mention the name of an English pop star about who's a famous story. He was found that way and said: yes, I was doing a scientific study or something. He was just a criminal. This is already about ten years ago and played in the UK, but this is the same in our regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u58	Did the minister finish this block? I wanted to make one more point, which is all about the previous block. I was late for that earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u59	This cube is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u60	Look. I was just asking my colleague Van Nispen: do I understand? The Minister replied to questions we had asked about the criminalisation and the doubling of the penalty rate of a number of discrimination provisions. At that time, the Minister seemed to suggest in his reply that we had proposed a hierarchy between the grounds for discrimination. We would like to say, for example, that homo-discrimination needs to be tackled harder than other forms of discrimination. I don't think that's something someone's advocated here. The point is that, I believe in Article 137d, a doubling of the penalty rate has been proposed on the basis of a motivation that discrimination is very problematic. The question was: why isn't there a doubling of the penalty rate on any of those anti-discrimination articles?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u61	I think I also answered this question by saying that you were in that escalation model... Maybe I was going a little too fast, but the intention of Article 137d is to separate that and clearly punish separately from, I will say, just discrimination. This is about inciting it. I'm looking for that answer, but I thought I'd discussed it with you before. I can take a look at it in the second term, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u62	I don't think anyone's accusing you of going too fast. In what I just heard, it seemed more like it was going to create a hierarchy in grounds of discrimination. Let me at least say to the Minister that that was certainly not the intention on my part. Here's what's important. The argument is that at 137d we want to double the penalty because it is so damaging to society that people are intimidated, discriminated against and do not feel free in society. My question was: why do we not do the same with the other articles? Maybe that question can be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u63	At the risk that I am indeed doing it too quickly, I say that you should see Article 137d as a next step on the escalation ladder towards hate crime and the use of violence. I've really said this before. Both crimes have now been punished for one year. The increase of 137d reflects the fact that inciting hatred, discrimination or violence is the next step on the discrimination ladder. But I repeat what I said earlier. That's the idea. In addition, I have said that Mrs Buitenweg is right, but there were some letters on this subject, which said that we should not make a distinction between different groups, but that was more of a general observation. Mr. Chairman. I will quickly continue with the issue of participation in criminal organisations. I think it has been clearly understood by most Members of Parliament. It is precisely the people who are in criminal organisations, no matter what they do there. That is to say, not only whether they are merely a bat in that criminal organisation, but also whether they have behaved so cleverly that they do not get a picture of any further criminal offences committed by that criminal organisation. That membership alone has a very large, high penalty. This is in response to Mr Hiddema's question. Because you are saying very clearly: we consider it extremely criminal in our society if you are in such a criminal club, regardless of whether you have been so clever that there is no evidence against concrete crime. Mr. Chairman. Higher penalties will become the norm, I say to Mr Van der Staaij. That is, a higher sentence limit. I'm sure the magistrate's gonna stick to that. Here's what I'm gonna do. Last year there were questions from both Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Hiddema about this, albeit from a slightly different perspective, called csv's, criminal partnerships, rolled up. So the idea that no criminal groups would be rolled up or tackled at all, I fight. That's just factually wrong. I have just answered Mr Hiddema's question about the bats and that sort of thing more. I'm here for the arms trade. The word "razzia" has fallen. There's never been a raid in a neighborhood where the police know there's a lot of guns. I would just like to say in advance that the word 'razzia' does not belong to my vocabulary. That brings to my mind totally wrong associations. I said this in an earlier debate with your Chamber in response to an intervention by Mr Hiddema. I live in Amsterdam, let me make that confession. A city where weapons have indeed been found several times in homes, but it really can't be that justice is working so that there is going from home to home with an arrest or search team that searches houses everywhere. That's not how our legal system works. Since 2015, this is also an answer I gave to Mr Hiddema last year. There is a national firearms officer at the national prosecutor's office and each district parquet has an officer with firearms as a focus area. There is also an improved information position on firearms, including the fight against trafficking on the Internet. So that's what we're betting on. In 2017, there were 60 investigations into organised crime in the field of weapons and explosives. After all, most of you, it has been in the press extensively, and you will remember that in Rotterdam last year there were some rumored arrests in an arms trade that had delivered to terrorists abroad. There we see very clearly that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are working on it with a great deal of effort and expertise. This does not mean that the current results are good and we are so ready. There is currently an exploration of the possibilities for further strengthening the approach to illegal weapons. For I agree with Mr Hiddema that we must continue to make a strong commitment to this. There is an action programme on which I will come into contact with your Chamber. I've answered most of the questions. Mr Hiddema was concerned that the search would fail. My image isn't that the BOLO fails. On the contrary. My view is that organised crime in the Netherlands is fierce and that it is of the utmost importance that we take action against it. Finally, there was the suggestion to have sick or almost cured detectives look at old files. In the context of helping police people with PTSS (post-traumatic stress disorder) there are all kinds of projects where police people with this nasty condition are helped to get back to work with other kinds of police work. That includes working with old files. In reply to Mr Hiddema: yes, I have visited those people. I've talked to people about that, and I've seen what kind of work they do. It's impressive how the project was set up. The same goes for the work these people do. The home invasions are still very fast. There was a question from Mr Grothuizen about that. It is common for a hand grenade to be laid down. Others had questions about that, too. I'm familiar with that, of course. The triangle in Amsterdam has announced that they would like to work in G4 with a task force. In any case, I think it would be wise for local initiatives to be taken in this respect. Closure of catering establishments is now a local competence, but you can also see the initiative that has come from Amsterdam, that we must also see whether we have other roads than the only way to close a catering establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u64	I have a brief question on that. That sounds good, but does that also mean that the Minister wants to put his weight behind that task force and think about how we can do this in a more nuanced way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u65	Yeah, but I'm just trying to lose some weight, so we shouldn't. But I have heard with interest of this initiative. I have not been able to discuss this with the G4 yet, but I think it is very good that we are looking at how we are going to tackle this hand grenade problem ourselves. But that might be more of an AO police thing. In addition, we need to look at more solutions than just the catering establishments or other types of occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u66	That is good news, and for the rest I wish the Minister success in trying to lose some weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mr Markuszower's question about the six-year sentence for someone who was robbed in his own home. These are penalty ceilings as laid down in the legal system. A maximum sentence is always open to discussion. We are talking about an increase in the maximum sentence by half. I think that this is a considerable increase, which also reflects the legislator's view that this is very, very reprehensible behaviour. I have a number of points before I come to a response to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u68	The Minister gave a very general answer to only one part of my question, because I also asked him about those aid workers. We had discussed them before, but I also mentioned the story that was said today in De Telegraaf that a rapist of a little girl is already on the street within one year. The general story that fits into this law, I understand. That is the law proposed by the Minister. All I can see is that the Minister is not introducing significant increases in penalties with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u69	I refer to what I said at first, because otherwise I would repeat myself completely on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of animal extremism. I have already said a few things about this in Question Time, so I am not going to repeat it now, as I say to Mr Van Wijngaarden. It may be quite clear, and I said that in one sentence too: free demonstration, fine, but within the limits of our rule of law, and self-direction, we do not enter into our rule of law; criminal action is being taken against it. In reply to Mr Van Wijngaarden's question, I can say that there is indeed excellent police expertise, including in the field of the detection of animal extremism. This is also addressed in the Threat Picture of Terrorism The Netherlands. I also said in the Chamber on Tuesday that in recent months I myself saw reason to speak to individual farmers and groups of farmers on a few occasions to hear their experiences. This subject certainly has a great deal of attention after Monday. The police therefore have all the necessary knowledge and she can also call on the so-called trainings of the National Training Institute to counter Radicalisation, because when it comes to extremism, you should include this. Mr. Chairman. The vog is not the first step in a possible application; it is an extension or closure to reduce risks. So you can see the screening profiles that indicate exactly that. Each vog request is unique. It is up to the interested party to determine the areas in which the applicant should be screened. The Justis Service will then examine whether functionally relevant offences are registered in the Judicial Documentation System for those specific tasks. The position of the interested party is crucial. That is the employer, because it is best to assess the risk areas in which a future employee should be screened. Anyway, Justis is constantly working to optimize that process. Applications are currently being developed, so that the burden on Vog applicants and interested parties is also reduced. There is also a vog-wijzer, with which vog-wijzers can assess the chance of a vog themselves. Mr Van Wijngaarden also touched on that point. You can find out for yourself. At least you can see that by means of that vog-handler. The pimp ban is involved in the new legislative proposal Regulating prostitution and combating abuses sex industry. Despite the fact that this bill may then be a kind of collectible of subjects, Mr Harbers and I have, because that whole other piece is in his area, found that we should deal with these issues in conjunction with each other. Mrs. Kuik asked about the digital restraining order. The digital world is different from the physical world. A digital restraining order is not feasible and enforceable. You can confiscate someone's computer or smartphone, but they can quickly find other ways to get online. I have explained this to your Chamber before, but it is indeed good to consider it once in a while. Mr. Chairman. I shall now come to my response to the amendments. The amendment in part No. 6, by members Groothuizen and Van Nispen, the aim is to consider the use of scams as a criminal grounds for theft with entry into the home. This means that a contribution will be made to the approach to so-called chatting tricks. I have a positive feeling about that amendment. This is, moreover, Article 311 of the Code of Criminal Law. I would therefore like to leave this amendment by Mr Grootehuizen of D66 and Mr Van Nispen of the SP to your Chamber. The amendment in part No. Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Buitenweg drew 9 to another bill. I appreciate that very much. That is the draft law on marriage imprisonment with which my colleague Dekker will come. The amendment in part No. 11 by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Jasper van Dijk, to replace the term "heterosexual or homosexual orientation" by "sexual orientation" in various acts of expression. I like the idea, I want to put it first and have it clear, but I must not advise the amendment at the moment whether I should ask to keep it. Why? Internal Affairs is implementing the Jasper van Dijk and others motion. an investigation into the desirability of changing the term "heterosexual or homosexual orientation" in the General Law on equal treatment in the term "sexual orientation." One of the reasons for conducting an investigation is that the term "sexual orientation" may be too broad, because it can also include other forms of sexuality, such as pedosexuality. The results of the investigation are also relevant to the question of whether the terminology should be changed in the Code of Criminal Law. I would therefore like to await the results of that investigation. So that amendment is coming too soon. But I've said I'm positive about it. So I would also like to say that if the investigation is there and shows that this term or similar term or wording is feasible, I will cooperate fully to put it on the criminal law agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u70	If I say that I am keeping the amendment, you will explain that this is not possible, Mr President. That's right. On Tuesday we are going to vote on the law, so an amendment cannot be retained. But that's not the point, because I understand what the Minister means. I wonder what might be against it. The Minister mentions one aspect, pedosexuality. In an interrupting debate with Mr Van Wijngaarden, I have already explained that this cannot, of course, be the intention of the protection we are trying to provide by modernising the grounds for discrimination, because that is what it is. It is actually a term that no longer does justice to the present time. It is in line with the international standard laid down in treaties. Of course, criminal offences such as sex with children can never fall under those protections. That is not a problem in other countries either, as I have been told. I therefore ask the Minister what would be against taking this sensible step now to modernise this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u71	I want to say this in a positive way. I've already said this has my sympathy. But we have to do this thoroughly. I would certainly like to prevent us from getting caught up in a problem that we do not want to have by including a term in the law, without making clear the possibility of exceptions to it. As the amendment has now been formulated, I fear these problems. That is why I asked you to keep the amendment. That's not possible; you're right, and I still have to learn that lesson. But I really want to repeat out loud that if and as soon as Mr Ollongren's research is there and shows what the general term might be and how it could be embedded so that your pedosexuality does not suddenly fall under it, I will do everything in my power to get it on the criminal agenda together with your Chamber. But we shouldn't rush it. This also applies to a completely different subject, namely the point raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg. That's nice to me, too, but I'm saying the same thing. Shall I deal with that right away, Mr. Chairman? We'll get on with it. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked us to think together about how to make it criminalized that people distribute footage that they have or have not made themselves of serious accidents, victims and deaths via the Internet or a WhatsApp group. What I want to say is that it is a socially important issue. I really spoke out on that last summer. It's not only disgusting, I think, but it's also frightening for the work of aid workers and a serious violation of privacy to take that kind of photos, so we need to do something with that. I think we should start putting that "in their face" for people. Instead of signs about MONO along the highway, we need a sign with a nice word that indicates: store your device, or something like that. This is a very complicated problem, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, because in some cases the justice department says correctly: if you have camera images, they can help us reconstruct something, just to give you an example. It's very complicated. I have just told meal delivery workers who are given a bodycam that they can use it for two things: if they are in an unsafe situation themselves, they will press the button, or if they see an unsafe situation. They can therefore get footage that they should not abuse, but that can be very useful for the justice system. That's how complicated it is. I think it's a good idea to talk to your room about that separately. As far as I am concerned, we can do that if your Chamber so wishes; as soon as possible, but we really must have thought it through. I would also like to make the appeal to Mr Van Nispen: let us consider that comprehensive term'sexual orientation' or 'orientation', with a certain formula so that pedosexuality does not fall within that category, please think about it. We can do that as soon as we get that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u72	I'm so good at listening to the Minister, I'd almost forget why I was standing here. That was indeed the previous point, about sexual orientation. This is a translation of the English concept of sexual orientation, as it appears in all international documents and as it has been translated into many other countries. I think the Minister is looking for a problem right now. Mrs Van Toorenburg's important point is a bit more complex in legal terms than the proposal I presented in this amendment. I think that's very clear. I would like to ask the Minister when we can expect the results of that investigation on the Home Affairs side. Does the Minister agree, if there are no legal obstacles, that he will then consult a bill on the matter, both as regards the General Law on Equal Treatment, where exactly the same issue arises, and as regards the Code of Criminal Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u73	Now let me put it right, because the General Law on Equal Treatment falls under Mr Dekker's jurisdiction. I have just said that I will put it on the criminal agenda together with your Chamber as soon as possible, provided that the investigation results in such a comprehensive term being properly arranged in this way. I can find out when that investigation is coming. I'd be happy to send a note about that next week if I know more about it. I don't know by heart, because it's in the Home Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr. Chairman. We have presented a proposal, and I do not say on purpose: amendment or initiative law, because we do see that there is a real urgency to resolve this quickly. The Minister's officials have really helped us in what is the best terminology, and I thank them for that. May I ask the Minister to make every effort with us to get advice as soon as possible and not on the Council of State, but on the other side as soon as we send it around for internet consultation? As Members of Parliament, we really want to speed up the criminalisation of human suffering on the Internet or to make it public, which is really sniffed out of the rats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yes. Mr. Chairman. For the viewers who later turned on, I had stayed with the amendment to part No. 12 by Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van der Staaij on Article 140, on participation in the activities of a prohibited organisation, in order to remove the requirement for an irrevocable judicial decision on the prohibition. I think that is an interesting amendment, but we should not do that in this legislative proposal. We really have to do that with Dekker's bill on 2:20 BW or with the initiative of the Member of Parliament, Mr Kuik. I'm gonna stay out of one of those two for a while. Why not here? Now the system is so that if that organisation is declared prohibited, this only has the force of res judicata which is a final decision of the court which can be enforced after appeal or perhaps even cassation. So you cannot include in the law that you are punishable if you are a member of an organisation which is prohibited by the court if you are still subject to an appeal. Because yes, such a member says: it is not irrevocable at all, so how can that be punishable? I'm just gonna keep going. Well, then we come to the European Court of Human Rights, and that says: The Netherlands, you have legislation that does not correspond to the basic principles of criminal law, because here someone is being made a criminal offence for something that has not yet been definitively prohibited by the civil courts. Then we're gonna put the horse behind the cart, because then one of those OMG members can suddenly go home with a statement like that. We shouldn't want that. But I know that Dekker's proposal is going to come very soon. I have already said that I am certainly sympathetic to the idea that in future you will no longer have to wait for the irrevocable, but that it will be incorporated into the law that is already being implemented after the first instance and that this offence is punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u76	After this explanation, we withdraw the amendment. We will look very critically at where we will see this in the new law. (NL) Mr President, we are drawing the amendment to item No. 12 (35080) in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u77	The Van Toorenburg and others amendment (Part No 12) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you to Mrs Van Toorenburg for withdrawing and thank you to the Minister for the explanatory statement. I do have a question, because I think there have recently been a number of cases in which motor clubs have been banned by the courts. That decision was enforceable in stock. Then you'd think it'd be something else. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be now, but if that bill comes to the Chamber, can the Minister explain how that relates to Mrs Van Toorenburg's idea? I see the Minister looking a little confused. I think the judge has said in a number of cases: I'm going to ban you. That decision goes straight into effect, even if there is still a possibility of appeal. Then you'd say it's systematically something different from what the minister says it is now. Then it gets a little closer to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u79	That is why I brought such a procedure to the European Court of Justice. You get a problem in criminal law: there was another possibility of appeal, that profession was still running and all that kind of stuff more. I want to rule that out, and that really needs to be done in legal terms with Dekker's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mr. Chairman. The last two amendments are quite soon. Mr Van Wijngaarden's proposal in Amendment No. 14, formerly in part No. 10 concerns evidence of the disclosure of sexual images to the detriment of another person. At first there was a set-up and a debt variant, but I understand that this is now limited to the variant of the set-up and conditional design. This means that I can leave the opinion on this amendment to your Chamber. The amendment in part No. 15 concerns the Arms and Ammo Act. I will be very brief on this amendment: I understand that. It is a change which in any case relates to facts with hand grenades. It is motivated by the increasing number of incidents involving hand grenades. I have said before that I have a great deal of sympathy for that. I shall therefore leave this amendment to your Chamber. Then I'll be at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Mr. Markuszower, do you need a second term? Oh, you were late in the first term, I hear now. That's not gonna be in the Acts. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you. According to the Minister, these tightenings are needed because of changing views and developments, but if so, and we are in the process of modernisation, then I think we should also come up with a different term than 'collecting'. That was the term the Minister used for this law. But I do think there is indeed a multitude of subjects. It is therefore a bit of a messy debate. The SP does support the purpose of this bill, as I said in the first term, but I have to say that it does seem to me to be the minister of the easy way. By which I mean that I find it easy to replace numbers in the law with a slightly higher figure that increases the penalties. I have explained in detail that I do not think that there is enough going on to increase the chances of getting caught. I believe that this is more important in order to really improve safety in the Netherlands. The minister did say about the chance of getting caught: we invest a lot in the police. That may be the case on paper, but at the same time, yesterday, the General Court found that the number of agents did not increase, but decreased. Operational strength's down. The Minister also said: we're going to invest in the Public Prosecutor's Office, which we're going to strengthen. Still, the facts, why the SP has been asking with other opposition parties for years. Following an uncovered motion, just before the recess, the Minister was called upon to invest extra money in the Public Prosecutor's Office. During the Mayreces we suddenly see a message at the RTL News that the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary will receive 360 million euros over the next six years. The Minister doesn't want to confirm that this is true and whether this is a leak from the spring note. If that's the case, I think it's quite something. But the Minister won't say anything about it. He'll say today: look, good, we're going to invest. Then he doesn't want to say how much and where that extra money is going to come from. So the Minister is telling the good news here, but he doesn't want to tell the whole story. I see the Minister shaking no again, but I am going to ask once again the question that GroenLinks and we have already asked in the first term. Can the Minister exclude that the additional investments for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are at the expense of the police's budget in any form whatsoever? Can the Minister rule that out? I'd like to cover the whole story here, not just leaking the good news and that which hurts a little bit in the big spring note. I would rather not find out afterwards that the Minister has selectively informed the Chamber, I say here. Today we have the debate and I am therefore asking this question. Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed the tightening-up of the law in detail in the first period. I am holding the amendment. I do not see the legal objections the Minister is seeking. We shall see how that will end with the votes, but I shall table a motion on the same point. If the amendment on the term'sexual orientation' does not make it, then at least we have the motion and we can instruct the Minister to proceed with a legislative amendment after the examination of the Interior. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the term "homosexual or heterosexual orientation" appears several times in the Code of Criminal Law;]] [[Whereas criminal law protects not only homosexuals but also bisexuals, pansexuals and asexuals;]] [[Considers that the Code of Criminal Law could better use the international term "sexual orientation', including to increase the awareness and foreseeability of the Code;]] [[calls on the Government to replace the term "hero- or homosexual orientation" in the Penal Code with "sexual orientation,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35080-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr. Chairman. I've got a few more motions I'll start with right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to criminalise the obstruction of aid workers;]] [[Whereas the standard should be not hindering but helping workers;]] [[Whereas people from the public who have spontaneously made themselves particularly meritorious towards aid workers deserve recognition and appreciation for this;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify how people from the public who have spontaneously made themselves particularly meritorious towards aid workers are now recognised and appreciated for this and how this could be further strengthened, and to notify the Court of Justice of this by September 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a violent group of animal extremists has terrified a farming family in Boxtel, destroyed it, possibly transmitted disease, and that this group of animal extremists has announced new actions;]] [[Whereas this is why farmers live more and more in fear;]] [[Whereas strengthening national police knowledge and expertise on the practices of national and international animal extremists is important to protect farm families from these extremists;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the current rural approach to animal extremism and to consider whether the current approach needs to be strengthened, and to reconnect the Chamber by September 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a statement of conduct contains sensitive personal data;]] [[Whereas the person to whom this certificate relates is an interested party within the meaning of the AWB and should be able to obtain such a certificate without an employer's request;]] [[invites the Government to submit a proposal to the Chamber for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35080-17]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35080-18]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35080-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u87	With regard to that last motion, I can understand that this is also covered by Minister Dekker's portfolio. The Minister has indicated that a company is interested, but I would like to point out that the person himself is, of course, directly interested. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to send a note on this matter by Tuesday. Finally, may I say something, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u88	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u89	It was a debate that has gone many ways, but in which we have come to the very heart on a number of points, especially with regard to the role of Internet service providers and fora. Fair appreciation of the Minister's great commitment in this area. The Minister has also convinced us about the public prosecutor's commitment to hate-songists. So no motions on that point. We have heard very well what the Minister said about sexual orientation. It's really something we need to consider. I think we're all positive about it, but we also want to do it carefully. Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg's and her colleagues' proposals. We believe that an initiative law is the logical way forward, because it also affects the constitutional censorship ban. You would also like to hear the Council of State, journalism, science, the legal profession and the case law on this because it is ultimately bigger than it might seem at first sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. Then I look at Mr Van der Staaij. No? Then I'll go to Mr. Grothuizen. Not even? Then Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. One question is still open and it is about people who consciously search for those peeping websites where they all share images of changing rooms in which people are filmed. If you're really looking for that and you're gonna look at it, are you a criminal or not? As far as our initiative is concerned, this is the following. I think it is very important that we speed up criminalising the sharing of very privacy sensitive images of people suffering, often in public. Photos are taken of it and then distributed on the internet. Mrs Kuik, Mrs Buitenweg and I are going to put that into an initiative law and then we hope that, as the Minister has promised, we will get advice on it as soon as possible, including from all those involved, because I think there is a great urgency that we should make this criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I'll see if the minister can respond. I note that he needs two minutes' suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr. Chairman. It is regrettable that both Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Buitenweg are no longer present. On this question about the Spring paper, I repeat that I am not going to anticipate it. I can't, and I won't. I repeat that in my motion, Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Dam, who were tabled at the VAO OM meeting, all I had to do was ask myself to be strong. No more than that. Then I come to the Van Nispen/Jasper van Dijk motion on part No. 16 to include the term "sexual orientation" in the Code of Criminal Law. That is a variant of the amendment with the same text. I'm dissuading the motion for the reason I gave it. I am very sympathetic to it, but we must have worked this out properly. This is about including the term'sexual orientation', not so much in the context of equal treatment, but purely in the context of criminal law. I have told you that I would like to await the investigation of the Home Office first. I have also said to Mr van Nispen: I am sympathetic to it, and if, on the basis of that scientific research, the Interior comes forward with an opinion, then I will work with you to get it back on the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u95	That doesn't rule out the motion at all, does it? So if the Minister says "I am sympathetic to it," then he can also give a positive opinion on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u96	No, because the motion says: calls on the government to replace it with "sexual orientation." That's out of line. Then we didn't figure it out. Mr Van Nispen could hold the motion, but if he doesn't want to, I'd advise her. If I take the Van Wijngaarden/Groothuizen motion in part No. 17 can understand that the government is going to map out how people from the public are currently getting recognition and appreciation if they have once assisted aid workers, and if it is necessary to strengthen them, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mr. Van Wijngaarden, is that also your interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u98	That is certainly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u99	The Van Wijngaarden/Van Toorenburg motion in part No. 18, on animal extremism, let me judge Chamber. The Van Wijngaarden/Groothuizen motion in part No. 19 is about the vog. That is indeed Mr Dekker's area. I ask the author to hold this motion and to give Mr Dekker the opportunity to come to your Chamber with a reply at a reasonable time. I can't guarantee this in three days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u100	I'm not gonna hold the motion yet, so I'm gonna hold her for a while. Let's see if we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u101	Then I must discourage the motion and I would find it a shame, because I understand the question of the motion very well. But at such short notice, on behalf of a colleague, I do not think it is entirely the way in which we should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u102	You have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u103	That's why, so I'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u104	Mrs. Van Toorenburg asked about those peeping websites. I'm just as clear about that. We need to keep an eye out. The sec search for such a website, via Google or much of what, is not legally-technically criminal, but participating in it. Under the circumstances, I have just explained this with the example of that pop star............................................................................................................................................................................................ That will also depend on the website. If the peeking is all about peeking at animals in nature, then it may be different again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u105	I think that sounds wonderful, though, that such a peeping website is punishable, but it must be clear to people? When they visit such a website, shouldn't they receive some kind of notification of: this is a criminal offence? How does that work, even technically-legally? This is going really fast for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u106	I'm gonna have to answer that directly. Everyone is supposed to know the law. Of course, when new legislation comes, especially criminal legislation, the government does do it to make people aware of it. As I said, of course we also have policies aimed at the Internet providers, with a notice-and-take-down system and that sort of thing more. If someone is at any point involved in something that is punishable, that is the responsibility of that citizen himself. It's hard for the government to go after everyone and say, "Remember, this is a red light." That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u107	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-9.u108	We will vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
