ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u1	The next item is the debate on the Dutch contribution to anti-ISIS coalition and security deployment in Iraq in 2020 and 2021. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard the debate and, in view of our previous voting on this mission, we have not supported the anti-ISIS coalition before, and we will not support the extension. Having said that, we wish the men and women sent on mission a safe mission and also a safe homecoming. In addition, I have two points, first of all a short motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet has decided to continue training the Iraqi security services for the next two years;]] [[Considering that these security forces, including the military, have in recent months waged brutal repression against their own population, resulting in more than 500 deaths and 20,000 injuries;]] [[Considering that human rights organisations have expressed great concern about this, and calls on Human Rights Watch countries to end the training of Iraqi security services until effective action has been taken against those responsible;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend training to the Iraqi security services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-683]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u3	Speaking about security, in particular about the unsafe region, I would like to point out the dramatic expulsion of Mr Al-Showaikh, who was arrested, tortured and sentenced to life imprisonment in Bahrain. The IND made some big mistakes. We must be open about this. For this reason, I would like to take this opportunity to call on my colleagues to support motion 19637-2549. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u5	Mr. Chairman. This third deadline is the conclusion in plenary of the debate we have had on the extension of the mission in Iraq under the anti-ISIS coalition. We've achieved a lot in Iraq. ISIS is territorially defeated, thanks to the commitment of all the men and women of the Dutch armed forces and their allies. Many people's lives in Iraq have improved, but we are far from there. In the debate I talked about shifting a stone into the river. The adjustment of the flow of water is not the same, but very gradual. The course of the river eventually changes and that is irreversible. That's how I see this contribution in Iraq. Thanks to the efforts in areas by the Dutch military, the world is really going to change. The treatment of the civilian population by the current Iraqi government is a major concern for the VVD. The current government in Iraq must address the violent repression of protests. It is a good thing that this government, together with coalition members and NATO members, is going to put pressure on the current Iraqi government to ensure proper treatment of the population. I have spoken about threats on social media of brave women fighting for deradicalisation and democracy. Thank you to the Foreign Minister for his commitment to raise this issue. Considering everything, the VVD can support this extension of the mission. She expresses her appreciation for all the men and women involved in this mission, but also for their home front. They must miss each other during these days of Christmas and New Year, the time when most families are together. We also wish all loved ones strength and with them we wish all the soldiers involved a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u6	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think that it would help the fight against IS and the protection of the citizens of Iraq if the Netherlands stopped its contribution to the training programme in the security sector in Iraq at the moment. However, my group is convinced that the extreme violence of the security forces against their own people, the regrouping of IS and the dubious double role of Turkey should prompt us to constantly review the organisation and operation of the mission, as well as the total Dutch commitment in Iraq. My group will take a critical look at what the cabinet will come up with in this regard. For the first time, we will do so in spring, when the promised progress report will set out whether and how the mission should be adjusted. I therefore assume that the cabinet will report on the political developments in Iraq, which we are all concerned about, and perhaps also on possible changes in the development cooperation relationship, if that is the reason. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I repeat that my group can agree to the extension of this mission. I would add that my group has great respect for the work that Dutch soldiers and citizens have been doing for so many years to protect the people of Iraq and to promote peace and security. That is for the people there, but also for us in the Netherlands. This work has shown that much has been achieved. The caliphate no longer exists. Mr Bosman also referred to it. 4 million displaced people could return home in Iraq, just to give an example. Of course it is going too slowly, there are great setbacks and it is all much more complicated than we had hoped for for some time. We are increasingly aware of that. But that doesn't make us any less determined. On behalf of my group, I wish all those on this mission and all their loved ones who are left behind, a safe stay in Iraq and a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u9	Mr. Chairman. Our men and women have made a very good and important contribution to the anti-ISIS coalition in Iraq in recent years. The multi-headed monster called ISIS has shed a lot of blood in the past period. Unfortunately. That is why our determination today fits us. It will be clear to you that the SGP also wholeheartedly supports the extension of the mission in Iraq. We wish our soldiers and especially their families at home very much strength and above all God's blessing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u10	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our military are doing a very good job in Iraq. They've also done a lot of good work. Thousands and thousands of civilians have been liberated in Iraq. Students, demonstrators, women, children, Jezidis, Turkmen, Sunnis, Kurds living under the regime of the Islamic State have been liberated by the Allies, including the Dutch military. In the beginning of the Dutch mission it went faster than expected. IS was defeated more quickly than planned. But unfortunately, the progress of the fight against ISIS does not go up in a linear line, but goes up and down. We are now in this valley for two reasons. One: ISIS is gaining local strength and can also regroup. Two: the government of Iraq is acting horribly against its own people. There is a need for commitment from the international community on both fronts, but in different ways. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the citizens who have been liberated by our soldiers will not benefit if we choose the hare path in this deep valley right now. The students, protesters and women who fight non-violently for freedoms have no use at all if we polish the record just now, now that they are suffering from their own government. That is why the CDA believes that the continuation of the mission is necessary to fight IS and to force the Iraqi Government back on track. That is why we can support the continuation of the mission. We wish our women and men of the armed forces who are going to serve their homeland at risk for their own lives very much success. We take them and their home front with us in our prayers and we wish them a good homecoming after the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u13	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been involved in the fight against Islamic State since 2014. And with great success, that may be said. The caliphate no longer exists. 4 million displaced people have been able to return. Mr Van Ojik mentioned this as well. Lives have been saved. But we must also note that this battle is not yet over, for example because in Syria the struggle has been frustrated by a NATO ally. That's very frustrating. In Iraq, Islamic State appears to have free rein in the zone between the Kurdish Autonomous Community and Central Iraq. That's frustrating, too. In this context, the Netherlands contributes meaningfully with this mission. I did say in the debate that I think it is important for the Netherlands to let the coalition look at the broader picture again. The trainings we are going to do are good and also sensible, but they must also be sensible in a broader context. Like colleagues in the debate, I also referred to the context in Iraq. Our mission is to protect the civilian population, while at the same time the demissionary government in Iraq is violently attacking, injuring and killing its own people. It's hard to get together. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there have been large-scale demonstrations in Iraq since 1 October and regretting more than 400 deaths and more than 17,000 injuries;]] [[noting that the Netherlands intends to continue its contribution in Iraq for the security sector in Iraq and in the Kurdistan Autonomous Region and is also deployed in parallel on the development and political tracks;]] [[Whereas the Iraqi Government is responsible for the security of demonstrators;]] [[calls on the government, together with the coalition, to continue to oppose violence against demonstrators, to press for an independent investigation and to make it clear that Dutch support is not unconditional,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Bosman, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Ploumen, Mr Voordewind and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-684]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u14	Then my group, like a number of other groups here, will be voting in favour of extending this mission, wishing our men and women very much success and strength in Iraq and a safe return home. And indeed, as Mr Bosman has said so beautifully, it is precisely with these holidays that that home front should be put on hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u15	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Today, the group of DENK has been very critical during the general consultation on the deployment of Dutch military in Iraq for the period 2020 and 2021. That has everything to do with the wisdom that you learn from the past to do better in the future. If we look at the past, the Dutch contribution in Iraq will begin in 2003, the year when the United States has dragged the Netherlands through lies into an illegal war, a war that now has more than a million victims. It took the politicians seven years to conclude after the Davids Commission that, with the knowledge of today, we should never have carried out that raid. It has been the reason for the creation of the terrorist organisation Daesh, and we are still reaping the acidic benefits of it. The Netherlands is not the country that has to clean up the ruins of the US and participate in the geopolitical games for oil interests. You can hear Trump say openly: we have the oil, we keep the oil. We can no longer lend ourselves to the interests of fickle allies like the United States. Nor can we afford to risk knowingly and knowingly putting our boys and girls at risk because of the shaky political situation in Iraq at the moment. Nor can we afford to send our boys and girls into a country for America's interests after the fatal failure of the war on terror, which caused violence even more. With the civilian victims in Hawija and Mosul in mind, the Netherlands is not the country that enjoys support from the local population. And this while there is no exit strategy, no long-term strategy to bring peace and security to the region, and no strategy to win the hearts and minds of the local population. The Western coalition thrives in the Middle East conflict, and that must end sometime. Let the U.S. clean up their own mess sometime. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2003 Iraq was illegally invaded with a power vacuum leading to a spiral of violence;]] [[Considering that, according to the UN, more than 6.7 million people in Iraq need humanitarian aid;]] [[Considering that Iraq bears 80% of the burden of this humanitarian aid and it is bizarre that a country which has been illegally invaded should then bear a huge share of the burden;]] [[having noted that the Netherlands has spent more than EUR 300 million on the bottomless pit called the war on terror since 2014;]] [[Considering that the additional expenditure for the Dutch deployment in Iraq in 2020 and 2021 was estimated at EUR 16 million per year;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should no longer play a role in the so-called war on terror, which is in practice a war on geopolitical interests and oil addiction, but a role in humanitarian aid;]] [[calls on the Government to deploy the additional expenditure for the Dutch deployment in Iraq in 2020 and 2021 for humanitarian aid for the 6.7 million people in need in Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-685]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u17	Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, the DENK Group sees the relationship in this Parliament. Although we are fatally opposed to this mission, the group of DENK wishes our boys and girls a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u18	Mr Kuzu is talking about the illegal war in Iraq. He thinks we should link resources to that now and stop. Now some parts of Iraq are actually illegally occupied by other countries. I am thinking, for example, of the illegal occupation of parts of Iraq by Turkey. I am also thinking of the bombing of Turkey on Sinjar, on Jezidis and Christians. Mr Kuzu of DENK calls on the Netherlands to pay to Iraq while we are freeing there. Does he not agree with me that we, too, should call for Turkey, which is actually illegally occupied and bombed in Iraq, to stop doing so and also to contribute to Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u19	I would have an answer to that when it comes to that. Send your question to a Turkish Member of Parliament. I am a parliamentarians in the Netherlands. Bye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u20	Okay, you can, but we often talk about what other countries do and don't do when it comes to human rights. I would like to ask Mr Kuzu what he thinks of that. Would he support me with something like that if I made that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u21	Well, Mr Kuzu walks back to his chair, so he doesn't need to give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u22	Oh. That's not democratic. This is not how we work here in the Netherlands, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u23	I would ask Mr Kuzu to respond. That's okay with the interrupting microphone, too. It is always important to debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u24	Mr President, I am tired of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u25	...to keep feeding each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u26	Mr President, I am tired of a Member of Parliament, in this case of the CDA, asking me that kind of question to, say, link to a supposedly different interest than the interests of the Netherlands. I'm just completely done with that. I do not want to answer that. Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u27	Okay. Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I imagine that people in the region we are talking about now hope that we will assist them in their fight for justice. For the demons are far from defeated there, even though IS is territorially defeated. The demons have not yet been defeated, because people are suffering from trauma because of what happened to them, because they don't trust each other, because reconciliation is still a long way away. What doesn't help is that their own government doesn't give them what they're entitled to. Just a house, a job, schools for the children and, on the other hand, demonstrations that are peaceful, harsh, bloody and violent. That is the context of the mission that is now being proposed for extension. The Labour Party supports this extension, because we believe that we can help the people of Iraq through this mission, not only through this mission, but also through this mission, to combat those demons. We are not the only ones who think so; other colleagues said so too. I thank the ministers for their commitment to keep us informed of the progress of the talks with the authorities in Iraq. I would also like to thank the Ministers for their commitment to identify the ways in which we can assist women who have suffered from sexual violence and the aftermath of it and their community. I wish all women and men who work as a military, as a trainer, as a diplomat, as an aid worker in that region, a good mission, an effective mission and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u29	Sure, we all do. My question concerns the previous point, namely the demons, the repression, the killing and rape of people. At present, the Iraqi security services, supported by our government and trained by the coalition, are also responsible for this. Can I count on the support of the Labour Party to at least suspend the mission until those responsible have been punished and measures have been taken to stop this excessive violence and the killing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u30	We have, of course, discussed this at length in the debate, and rightly so. We have called for an independent investigation, which is why I support Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. We have also listened carefully to the reaction of the cabinet to the possible involvement of troops in these violent actions. I'm going to read Mrs Karabulut's motion carefully. I find it a little too easy to say now that I am in favour of it or against it. I would like to take a good look at that, because, of course, she has a point. But no one in this Chamber or in trade union K wants the Netherlands to make an active contribution to the violent repression of demonstrators. We want the Iraqi authorities to assume their responsibilities and to be called upon to do so. So I am going to look carefully at the precise text of the motion, but for the time being, as Mrs Karabulut has heard me say in the debate, and again, we are supporting the extension, because we think that is the best contribution to justice in the region, bearing in mind everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u31	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u32	We don't agree on the latter. I'm sure we're gonna have a long debate about that. But when it comes to suspension, I am pleased to hear from Mrs Ploumen that she is going to take a serious look at it, all the more so because it is currently contrary to the objective of this mission: to protect the civilian population.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u33	I trust that the other colleagues will also take a serious look at this. Once again, we have asked the cabinet about this. But my final conclusion is that the Labour Party believes that the extension of the mission contributes to justice for the people of Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u34	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV doesn't see much in carrying water to the sea or carrying money to the Middle East. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that since 2016 the Netherlands has already contributed EUR 72 million to the reconstruction of Iraq through the Funding Facility for Stability programme (FFS);]] [[Whereas not the Netherlands but (e.g.) the (rich) Gulf States should contribute significantly to the reconstruction of Iraq;]] [[calls on the Government to stop making any financial contribution to the Funding Facility for Stability programme (FFS),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-686]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u36	Then there's the anti-ISIS mission. When it came to destroying ISIS and taking away its territory, the Netherlands contributed significantly, with the support of the PVV. We believe that we have done enough to contribute to the fight against ISIS. That is why we decided in 2017 that we no longer want to participate in extensions of those missions, because it is now just up to others to take over that stick. If I listen to the information we have received in the AO about how uncertain it is still in Iraq and how doubtful you can be about the robustness of the mental combatibility of the Iraqi military, so to speak, then I have to say that it does not make it any better. The PVV remains, therefore, in its view, that we have done enough to combat ISIS and that others should continue to do so. The Minister said to me: you will of course achieve peace only if you contribute to stabilisation even after the battle. Well, that's what others have to do. The PVV believes that our people, our resources, our soldiers should now simply be in the Netherlands, in order to prepare ourselves for what threatens us here: the violent groups that, from Islamic motives, are heading this way to make mischief here. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to prolong the Dutch contribution to the anti-ISIS coalition and the contributions to the broad security deployment in Iraq. continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-687]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u37	In case this request of the PVV is not accepted, I wish all Dutch who are there or have to do so, a lot of security and a safe return to the Netherlands. I wish them good luck. The same goes for their loved ones here, who have to endure their family being sent there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u38	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not the last speaker yet, I understand. I thought someone's gonna come after this. No? Am I even the last speaker? I'll take it from there. There's gonna be more, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u40	Yes, but you are the last speaker in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u41	Mr. Chairman. Our Constitution requires us to strengthen international law. That is why I cannot imagine that our Dutch army should only stay in the Netherlands. On the contrary, we must work to combat the root causes of terrorism. For that, we need our men and women in the stranger. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for sharing the great concern about the violent crackdown on demonstrations by security forces in Iraq. As a Chamber, we have expressed our deep concern about this. I understand that these concerns are shared by the Cabinet and have also been transferred to the Interim Government in Baghdad. I hope that we will look closely at the help we are giving to these security forces, because we do not want to be part of security forces who are violently attacking protests from their own people, from peaceful demonstrators. I am therefore waiting for the proposals of this cabinet to see whether and, if so, how we should possibly adjust our mission in Baghdad, because our aid cannot be unconditional. So I await the cabinet's proposals on that point. For us this does not mean abandoning the Iraqi people now. We have to stand up for them. This also applies to the minorities in northern Iraq; think of the Jezidis, the Kurds and the Christians there. That is why, on behalf of the Christian Union, I wish to express my support for this mission. I wish the deployed soldiers, men and women, God's blessing, security and a safe return home. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u42	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I see the Foreign Minister can respond immediately. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As in the previous debate, it is good to hear that all Members of Parliament, regardless of their opinion on the mission, have again expressed their appreciation and support for the men and women who are doing this work for us and are going to do it again. Mrs Karabulut has tabled a motion calling on the government to suspend training for the Iraqi security services. During the debate, I made it clear that the Dutch Government, and indeed the other members of the coalition, find the way in which the Iraqi Government has dealt with demonstrators unacceptable. We also conveyed that message, both in our direct contacts with Iraq and through the coalition. We have indicated that we believe that there should be a better investigation and, if necessary, we will also make our voices clear again. However, I advise against this motion, because we consider the content of the training useful, especially at this time, because human rights and humanitarian law are an important part of the training. So we are not finding the logical answer at the moment to suspend it. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u44	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u45	These people have been trained, before, for years. It is these security forces that are currently killing, suppressing and kidnapping. So I don't understand this answer. I don't agree. But my question is for the Minister: can it not be that it stays with an investigation and appeal? What is the Minister going to do in the direction of the Iraqi Government to stop this misery and the killing of its own people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u46	We all hope, I suppose, that the steps that have been taken will put an end to that. If that is not the case, I have indicated that I am not ruling it out. It is not the case that we are going to offer unconditional and infinite support. But the first commitment is to see change of behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u48	I don't think an additional investigation and another investigation... It happened last week, it happened yesterday and it happens tomorrow. So again, does the Minister intend to use sanctions? Does the Minister consider the wording of this motion at a later date? Can it get a little more concrete? 'Cause now I'm just having a conversation and an investigation. And the killing continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u49	Mrs Karabulut rules out any possibility of change. I have indicated that our commitment is a change. Mrs Karabulut just wants to hear: it's nothing, it'll never work out, do you want to hit it? It's a worldview I don't share. The situation is complicated and has deteriorated in parts. But as gloomy as Mrs Karabulut so loves to introduce the world, that makes our work, frankly, impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u50	No, Mrs. Karabulut, I'm sorry. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u51	I would like to thank Mr Bosman for the support he has expressed on behalf of his group. The same applies to Mr Van Ojik. The cabinet will indeed come forward with a letter in spring on the consequences that we are going to have for the situation at that time in Iraq and, as Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed out, also the situation in the region. I thank Mr Stoffer for his support, as well as Mr Van Helvert and Mr Sjoerdsma. Mr Sjoerdsma, together with a large number of other MPs, has tabled a motion asking the government to speak with the coalition against violence against demonstrators, to continue to press for an independent investigation and to make it clear that Dutch support is not unconditional. This motion in part No. 684 is policy support. So I'd like to leave the motion to the House's judgment. Mr Kuzu has a motion on item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). We are convinced that the reconstruction of a country needs peace and security at the same time. Unfortunately, this also means that there must be a sufficient number of trained military personnel and that this will create the opportunities for humanitarian aid, which we are giving. But one can't do without the other. That's why I have to discourage this motion. I thank Mrs Ploumen for her support. She is right to point out that the position of abused women is also clearly part of our aid. My fellow Members will comment on Mr De Roon's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u53	Mr. Chairman. I will respond to the motion in part No. 687 and Mr Kaag will take over the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. My colleague Mr Blok has forgotten to thank Mr Voordewind for his support. So I'll take care of that, too. Thank you also to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union Group. I would also like to express my thanks to Minister Blok for his support for the extension of this mission. Then the assessment of the motion in part No. 687 by Mr De Roon of the PVV. The cabinet is dissuading this motion because it actually states that we must end the mission. As you know, the cabinet believes that much has been achieved in the fight against ISIS. It is true that ISIS has not yet been defeated and that there is no safe, stable situation in Iraq yet. With our trainings we contribute in all kinds of ways to achieving such a situation. I have already promised Mr Van Ojik in the debate that we will also see whether these training courses should change and how we should adapt them to the developments we are seeing in Iraq. We will take that into account in the letter just mentioned by Minister Blok. I should like to express my appreciation for the work of our men and women here as Minister of Defence. This is a mission that's already underway. These men and women, whether military or diplomatic, are already present in the region, unlike the mission we are just discussing, in Hormuz. The ship has yet to sail. This means that these people will spend Christmas and old and new in Iraq. That means something for them and for their families. I was pleased to hear Mr Bosman say the same. As a cabinet, we also have great respect for what is happening there and for the fact that people are sitting there these days too, and for the fact that they are alone and always have to think about the difficult circumstances. So I would like to thank the members of the Chamber who have said so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I would advise the Van Roon motion in part No. 686. This is one of the programmes through which the Netherlands is contributing to reconstruction, the rule of law and also capacity building to enable the return of displaced vulnerable groups. Moreover, it is not the case that the rich Gulf States do not contribute to the reconstruction of Iraq. They do so in much larger numbers than the Netherlands or other Western donors do. They just don't use the Stability Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u56	Thank you. On behalf of the whole Chamber, I wish our men and women every success, but above all, a safe mission and a safe homecoming. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-49.u57	We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight.
